ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:11]] Cards are registered in the 359 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today the birthday of our colleague of the Ukrainian national deputy John Vasilovich Popescu, who was 45 years old, is most fruitful. We welcome our colleague and wish him success. Ladies and gentlemen, I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary meeting on 15 April 2009. 17 questions on the agenda have been considered. As a result of the review, four laws and three decrees were passed, five bills were adopted on the basis of which one bill was intended for rereading, and five bills were rejected. The negative result is also the result. Ladies and gentlemen, you have a schedule for today, a list of issues to discuss with the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, please, do you need to exchange information on the schedule of meetings? Please sign up for five minutes. Please put the names of the national deputies on the sign-up sheet. Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u2	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. The phrase “Block of Lithuania” in faction is only one: there is an order of the day, it needs to be implemented immediately. I understand that maybe not everyone has a procedure when we have a reduced procedure to deal with some issues, but if the authors of the legislative initiative want this 11-page brochure -- only a list of the bills that are being implemented today -- to be implemented, it's obvious that Vladimir Mikhailovich needs to go back in the process of considering issues that can be dealt with by a reduced procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u3	Yes, Peter Cibenko, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u4	Thank you. The Communist faction, Peter Cibenko, is the first deputy head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, head of the Board of Veterans of Ukraine. Dear Vladimir Mikhajlovich, yesterday during the plenary meeting, I raised questions, corresponding orders by Alexander Volodymyrovich, to include in the agenda today the question of the appointment of a parliamentary hearing on the subject “On the social, medical, pension security of war veterans” and “Acknowledgment of the 65th anniversary of Victory in the Great Country War 41-45 years”. It's registered, it's processed by a profile committee, it's initiated in March-month. It takes three minutes for a decision to be taken on the date of the parliamentary hearing. She wasn't reinstated in the daytime. I ask today at the beginning of the plenary to consider this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u5	Number, number, number?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u6	4229.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u7	The point is, there is a decision on the schedule for today. Yes, yes, it is, says Alexander Volodymyrovich. Gennady Samofalov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u8	I ask you to give the floor to my colleague Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u9	Alexander Efraemov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u10	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues! Yesterday, the first Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Maslakov, sent a letter to all assistants requiring everyone to form payroll cards in the bank of Awal. Vladimir Mihajlovich, I would like you to draw attention to this action by the responsible staff member of the Cabinet of Ministers Secretariat and to transmit the material to the relevant authorities for the initiation of the corruption protocol. Because he's not allowed to act in a fairy tale, that's the first. Secondly, those cards that were in the Nadra bank cannot yet be loaded even on wages by the people who received them. That's why you can't let that happen. And there is one request, Vladimir Mihajlovich, and to our parliamentary colleagues, including the coalition.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u11	Please finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u12	Please, Vladimir Mihajlovich. You know, there's been a lot of information lately about theft and corruption in public procurement for a single contractor, and it's been reported that 68 billion have been made public money in this regard. on this option. They would therefore be asked to introduce a State Procurement Act to the Supreme Council for consideration. He is said to have been prepared for consideration, it would be logical today to consider it, at the very least tomorrow, and to make a positive decision on it to escape the facts of corruption among the State party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u13	Oleg Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u14	Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! We have a lot of drafts today that need to be considered, so there's a proposal to put them to a vote on an accelerated procedure so that we can look at all the bills and bills that are planned today. In addition, it may be worth deciding that today the Supreme Council will work until all the bills are considered, for tomorrow we have Passion Friday, then Easter, then three weeks in May, and the issues that need to be resolved today are many in the country. So I suggest we work until we consider all the bills. And consider them as a reduced procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u15	Jaroslav Suhi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u16	May I have the floor to Mr. Vladimir Ivanovich Landik, Party of Regions? Landik Vladimir Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u17	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Bill 3681 was introduced to the Committee on Freedom and Information: amendments to the Television and Broadcasting Act, which we supported for the first reading. He had been handed over to the Committees on 3 March, but it appeared that he had not yet been placed on the agenda. The bill is very important for the entire electronic media industry, which today, like everyone else, suffers from an economic crisis. Since the next plenary meeting will be held only in May, I request that draft 3681 be put to the vote on the agenda of the plenary meeting for 16 or 17 April. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u18	I'm asking you, about the final proposal of the Landik People's Deputy, let's do it this way. We're going to study this question now, and tomorrow we're going to see how ready it is to go back to it. Is there no objection? As for other suggestions that have been made. I have a request, my fellow Members of State, I have a request to the national deputies. I'd like to have your attention, including Alexander Sergiyovich. Dear colleagues, I would like to ask you, and I ask you, if there are any problems, I don't think the whole country, the whole Supreme Council should be worried about what anyone has said and misheard. The point is that a tender was announced for bank service, banks of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, like everyone else. And by no means is the “Abal” Bank spoken of, my dear colleague. And beyond the point of people getting paid today, they were sent proposals to see how these cards should be funded. And I think we can study this at the Conciliation Council. There is no “Awal” bank there, read normally. Please, a replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u19	Vladimir Mihajlovich, in fact, I apologize to colleagues and colleagues at the Awal Bank, it is clearly stated here in the letter “Alpha Bank”. Vladimir Mihajlovich, in fact, such actions are always carried out in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. What they've done without agreeing on this action by someone's decision is, in itself, nonsense, it's the same thing. Second, what is the Alpha Bank that wins this tender? I don't know if any of the deputies in the hall know this is a bank. And most of all, I wanted to stress that we were dependent on the people's assistants at Nadra Bank, which people can't get. Today, we commit to 100 per cent, contrary to the law and the Corruption Act, we force people to go to that bank. This is completely wrong, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u20	Dear, distinguished colleagues, I propose and ask, and I find this debate irrelevant, because when it came to conducting a tender, they did not refer to the regulatory committee, they approached the Supreme Council of Ukraine profile committee and they studied the issue. Perhaps we should all look together, but I think we have a Conciliation Council where we can find out all these questions first. And secondly, if you force me, I'll tell you what the pressure was to make one or another bank. And this is today the echo of all these pressures that go to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Let's do it right. Let's do it right. I'm saying calm down, I'll tell you who to go to and ask, that's what your colleagues are talking about. ((Mw w w w w a l i) No, it's not. Another was the offer. Dear colleagues, in view of the tense schedule of meetings, bills, except for the second reading, should be considered in a simplified manner. I'm voting on this proposal and I'm asking you to support it. [[10:13:31]] For a hundred and Decision taken. The two factions, the BUT faction and the "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense", require, in accordance with the Rules, a 30-minute recess for consultations on issues that are not included in the agenda of today's plenary meeting of the Supreme Council. So you're going to make an announcement? We agreed that they might immediately tell us what they were taking a break from, and we would continue to work. Please, the microphone. Ivan Kirilenko, I announced. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u21	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Given that the situation has worsened a little bit, we have not seen one issue in the agenda: prepared documents, proposals for the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry on the Inter channel. Criminal cases have been committed today. There are new circumstances in the situation involved. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, there are circumstances new to the change in the form of ownership and the owner of the channel, other things that require our mandatory parliamentary response and control. There are proposals of factions. We insist today that we put the TSC to the vote in order to figure out the situation and put the dots above the “and” position. We ask that this issue be put to the vote before the inclusion in the agenda – the Temporary Follow-up Commission on the situation around the Inter Channel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u22	Dear colleagues! Let's do this, let's move away from the word "we demand" and give the documents. There are no documents. There's no problem. If I ask you, if you've passed all agreed procedures, we'll be dealing with organizational issues on Thursday. You could say that, but when the schedule was formed, there were no objections, and there were no suggestions, starting on Monday at the Conciliation Council. Dear colleagues! Let's take a 12-hour session of the Conciliation Council and make the right decision. No documents available. As soon as they reported that they had been served yesterday, the committee had not considered it. So let's take a look at the committee, let's do it this way, please, Alexander Efraemov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u23	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich! I would like to address Ivan Grigorievich, but I think that a more important document still needs to be considered today. I reaffirm once again that 68 billion purchases went to one contractor. By believing what the press is writing today, this is not the level of corruption you created in our country. Let us ultimately adopt this Public Procurement Act today and close the subject. Now it's about the Interim Investigation Commissions. We considered yesterday at a meeting of the Committee of Five Commissions of Inquiry. Two adopted since they were drafted in accordance with the Rules, on three commissions, including the one you are referring to, the regulatory committee sent for finalization. When she's finished, we'll put her in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u24	Dear colleagues! There's a request to get into the work rhythm. Let's meet at 12 o'clock at the Conciliation Council and find out all of these problems, including the proposals regarding the Tender Chamber. At the same time, I would like to remind you that only yesterday after 18:00, documents were received from the Committee on the Tender Procurement Bill. The bill is sensitive. It is quite obvious that we need to work on it. Clearly, we need to see what we are talking about so that we do not repeat what happened. So let's do it this way right now, the Bureau of Law is working. At 12 o'clock we will hold a meeting of the Conciliation Council and we have two differences, the first question concerning the TSC and the second, the Tender Chamber and the plus letter that the head of the Regulatory Committee said about the assistants of the National Deputies. They'll prepare all the necessary documents, we'll discuss and make the right decisions, no objection? Then let us move on to the issues set out in the schedule for today. The Ukrainian Act on measures to deal with the consequences of the economic and financial crisis in the area of social protection, pay and employment, with proposals by the President since 14.01.2009, is under review. The bill is completed, the rapporteur is the first deputy head of the Committee on Social Policy and the work of Oleg Borisovich Shevchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u25	Mr. Volodymira Mihajlovich, honourable national deputies, I am authorized to present to you the attention of the Committee on Social Policy and the work of the Ukrainian Act on Measures to Cope With the Consequences of the Financial and Economic Crisis in the Field of Social Protection, Pay for Work and Employment, registration number 3344. As you know, the prescribed law was committed by the President of Ukraine to making a number of comments and suggestions to him. I recall that this law provided for the enforcement of State social standards and the protection of the social rights of citizens during the period of minimization and to overcome the negative effects of the global financial crisis on the economy of Ukraine. The aim was to achieve this by modifying basic social laws, such as rejecting the unnecessary budgetary costs associated with, above all, maintaining a government apparatus. This will help to avoid lowering the level of national social standards and lowering the standard of living of the population. After the veto of the President of Ukraine, a working group was set up on our committee to finalize the law, which was invited by representatives of the Ukraine’s secretariat, relevant ministries, authorities, executive directors of the general government social insurance funds, and the organization of employers of professional associations. All the proposals that have come from the President of Ukraine and the people's deputies and the decisions that have been made have been taken, which have been entered into the table that you have already been able to get acquainted with. I would like to point out that all the proposals of the President of Ukraine and seven proposals from the national MPs were taken into account when the law was being amended, 4 was rejected. 3. I propose to the Supreme Council to support the bill worked on the committee in a new edition. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u26	That's what you're gonna say.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u27	Dear colleagues, we now have a regular situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u28	Attention, Your Honor!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u29	What is a problem with compliance with constitutional laws? Since this law, like several other laws that have already been passed by the Supreme Council under them, is signed by the Head of the Supreme Council as laws, the President of Ukraine has made his remarks to these laws, not bills, but laws, and has returned to the Supreme Council for reconsideration with his proposals. And now that we have a table with the names of the distinguished people's deputies next to the comments of the President of Ukraine, we have a question, we have a second reading again, involving the President of Ukraine, or we are considering the President's remarks on the Supreme Council's approval of the law. If we are looking at the Supreme Council's approval of the law, then we have only to consider the observations and suggestions of the President of Ukraine and to agree with them, or to reject them, and if we do, in part, to adopt a new law, if we fully agree, also in the new edition, if we don't agree at all, to overcome the veto, then it is the Supreme Council that confirms that the law that it has adopted should be the same in the editorial that it was in. Such an approach creates some conflict with the Basic Law of our nation. I would ask you to work only in the accounting or non-accounting regime, i.e. to consider the proposals of the President of Ukraine after he has made his proposals to the approved law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u30	Dear, yes, Adam Martinyuk, please. In a row, in a row.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u31	Thank you. Adam Martinyuk is a faction of Communists. Dear colleagues, indeed, we are in conflict with the Basic Law and the Rules, if we are to now consider the bill essentially in a second reading, as said by Alexander Volodymyrovich. All we have to do is consider the President's proposals. When we considered the President's proposals, we sent for work because there were no votes at the time for either taking into account the President's proposals or overcoming the veto, so we sent the committee to make recommendations only on the President's proposals. If we agree with the committee's decision today, and it supports almost all the President's proposals, there is no value in such a law. Because this law was passed in a section of the State Budget 2009 Act, where the social rights of the people of work were severely reduced. If the President is now returning with his proposals to the 2009 budget, this law is totally meaningless. That's why I'm proposing.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u32	Allow me to complete the proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u33	So I propose, indeed, to go only after the President's amendments, only after the President's amendments and in the end, I urge everyone to overcome the veto on this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u34	Please, Alexander Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u35	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I wouldn't want to think to the MPs that there are non-professionals working on the Social Policy Committee and they don't know the law. We did everything by law. When we got the President's veto, we offered either to consider the President's proposals or to overcome the veto. But a group of people led by Shevchuk who are supporters of BUTU, and most of them on the committee together with representatives of the NS, held a meeting without us and wrote down everything she wanted. We immediately warned that there was a violation of the Rules, that this could not be done. So five out of six deputies didn't vote for it. So I ask what Lavrinovich said, what Martinyuk said must be followed. We're either overcoming the President's veto, or we're taking the propositions into account. Everything else is Shevchuk's initiative to carry out the task of BUTU and Julia Timoshenko. I ask them not to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u36	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? Please, Oleg Shevchuk's microphone. And we're going to go over the bill according to the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u37	Thank you, Your Honor. I want to say what's said right now is not entirely true, because there were six deputies out of the 11 members of the committee who were present and approved the table proposed by the working group. So it's not entirely true. And I ask you to support the table and the law in the new edition, which is proposed to the working group, which worked with representatives of all social partners, trade unions, employers, representatives of social insurance funds. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u38	Please, Sergei Sass.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u39	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! I've just heard the argument of People's Deputy Stoyan and I have to disagree with him, because the question of reviewing the return of the veto of the bill is regulated by 135 articles of the Rules. In particular, it's part eight. If the President's proposals are not accepted, the decision of the Supreme Council that is not adopted after the re-examination of the law may be intended to be submitted to the Main Committee, which, no later than 30 days after the day of the Supreme Council's consideration, is obliged to recommit it to the Supreme Council for review. If the Supreme Council's decision on direction is not taken, it is rejected. And part nine. If the law does not receive the required number of votes of the national deputies after further consideration by the Main Committee in plenary session, it is rejected. Therefore, the bill introduced by the committee should be considered and the decision taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u40	Dear colleagues, let's go this way. We all have our own treatises. We'll go in like this. Please, Papiev and we'll work now.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u41	Thank you. Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this is a law that has been passed in due course by national MPs from "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense". This is a very important law for Ukrainian citizens because it deals primarily with wage issues, setting the minimum wage size and generally setting the size of the first tariff charge. Dear colleagues, the point is that we should have a new draft of this bill under consideration today. But given that it always comes out like this when unprofessional people are asking a question, so now the Supreme Council of Ukraine has no clear position. I insist that these proposals, which I have made as the subject of a legislative initiative that relates to the increase in the minimum wage to the minimum of living, be put to the vote in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and that we see who is looking after the people today and who is opposed to it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u42	Dear national MPs, there is a great request to stop the political speculation that is taking care of them. Let's get out of what the Rules are, and if the President of Ukraine applied the veto to the law, then the Supreme Council of Ukraine has to work solely with the proposals of the President of Ukraine. I want to tell you again, we're going to consider exclusively the proposals of the President of Ukraine. Anything else does not prevent you from introducing a bill, and the Supreme Council of Ukraine will consider it in its proper order. Otherwise, we'll be doing standard-setting, reporting to the President of Ukraine. Therefore, I would like to ask your attention, Your Honor, to vote solely on the proposal of the President of Ukraine. If they're supported, then we'll adopt the law in a new edition. If they are not supported, it will be put to the vote to defeat the President's veto on this law, and there is no other. That's why I'm asking for your attention! Please open your honorary colleagues, page three of the table where the amendment of the President of Ukraine is made. Do you need to read it?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u43	Read?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u44	I read: “The bill that came to the signature proposes to amend the Ukrainian Act on Pay for Work, which establishes that the salaries of employees of all institutions, institutions and budgetary organizations are made on the basis of a single tariff network that is approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. [[second paragraph paragraph of second section]] At the same time, the salary, the rate of duty paid by the staff member of the first tariff level according to the sole tariff network, is proposed to be set in a size exceeding the legislatively fixed minimum wage. [[paragraph four, two, two]] The proposed amendments do not comply with the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, as follows: the Constitution of Ukraine declares that any expenditure incurred by the State on the general public needs, the size and purpose of the expenditure shall be determined exclusively by the Act on the State Budget of Ukraine. [[Part Two, Article 95]] The Ukrainian Act "On Ukraine's State Budget 2009 sets the minimum wage from January 1st 2009 to December 605, from April 1st 2009 to December 625, from July 1st 2009 to 630 and from October 1st to December 1, 2009 to December 1, 2009 to December 669." [[Part One Article 55]] Staff members of the budgetary institutions shall be paid for the size of their salaries, tariff rates which will be lower than the defined minimum wage, salary, tariff rates shall be at the minimum wage level. [[Part Three Article 55]] At the same time, Ukraine's Cabinet of Ministers is tasked with implementing Ukraine's State Budget in January 2009, taking into account Ukraine's socio-economic development status, to anticipate an increase in the budget spending on the phased implementation of Ukraine's Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts (to establish a minimum wage at the level of living minimum for working persons). Under such circumstances, the establishment of an official tariff rate rate of the first rate of duty from January 1, 2009, in line with a single tariff grid that exceeds the legislatively fixed minimum wage, would result in an additional expenditure of the State budget of 29.5 billion dollars. In doing so, proposals for expenditure to be reduced and (or) proposals for sources of additional income to cover the increase of expenditure as required by article 27, part 2, of the Code of Budgets, are not made. The new additional expenditure of the State budget in the context of the global financial economic crisis will then lead to a balance in the State budget of Ukraine, resulting in a violation of article 95, part 3, of the Constitution of Ukraine, of the State’s desire to balance the budget. I'm putting to the vote this proposal on. President of Ukraine. [[10:34:23]] For 204 The decision is not taken. Now. The factions, please. Region Party – 0, "Club of Timoshenko" – 150, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" – 35, communists – 0, "Club of Lithuania" – 19. Now, Your Honor, on page 6 of the President's amendment. Please open page seven, I'm putting this amendment to the vote. [[10:34:59]] For the 18th. The decision is not taken. On page 8 of the President's amendment, she goes under number 8. [[10:35:21]] Z-11. The decision is not taken. Since the President's amendments, which are proposed under this law, have not found support for the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the following regulatory proposal remains to be put to the vote: on overcoming the veto of the President of Ukraine on the Ukrainian Act on Measures to Cope With the Impact of the Financial and Economic Crisis in the Field of Social Protection, Paying for Work and Employment of the Population. [[Registration number 3344]] Please vote. [[10:36:10]] For 216 Veto's not overtaken. Veto's not overtaken. The law is rejected. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Agriculture is being announced for consideration. [[on price regulation of the agricultural market, risk insurance, recovery measures and rural social programmes]] [[second reading]] The rapporteur is the deputy head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy, the Land Relations of Ribuk Sergey Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u45	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! You are being reviewed by the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Agriculture, registration number 2375 of 15.04. [[on improving the public price regulation mechanism of the agricultural market, insurance of agricultural production risks and measures for the restoration of livestock and the implementation of social programmes in rural areas]] The initiators of the bill are the deputies of Shpak, Ribuk, Kirilchuk. The draft law is being prepared to improve the mechanisms of State support for Ukraine’s agriculture. I recall, with your permission, that the first reading of the bill was passed on December 25 last year and voted in favour of almost 400 national deputies. Many amendments have been made to the second reading by the people’s deputies. Exactly 77 amendments. The absolute majority of them are accounted for. So 63 revisions are counted. Two have been taken into account on an editorial basis, 12 has been rejected and mainly because they do not meet the objectives of the law and are in conflict with the Code of Budgets because they applied to the financing of agriculture, which is not in line with the budget code. The title of the bill was changed to the Chief Legal Authority’s point of view, since the amendments to the national MPs required the harmonization of individual legal rules with other laws of Ukraine. The bill has also been redrafted to take into account the provisions recently signed by the President of Ukraine of the Act amending certain laws to prevent the negative effects of the global financial crisis on the development of the APC, this is number 922. The amended bill was discussed at a meeting of the Committee of the Supreme Council twice on agrarian politics, land relations, an additional working group was formed, and we discussed for quite some time from a number of positions of the bill and changes made by the people's deputies. But it is recommended that the committee be adopted in the second reading and generally as a law. A few words about the comments of the Chief Legal Authority, who reviewed the draft prepared for the second reading and made a number of suggestions. The vast majority of the comments made by the legal authorities were taken into account. And the committee is asking for the support of the agrarian deputies, for the adoption of the bill in the second reading and generally as a law. But, Volodymyr Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u46	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u47	I want to talk to you if it doesn't conflict with the rules of the Rules, we've been having more discussions now, until the last minute, with representatives of all the factions, and we've come to the conclusion that there are some points in the bill that can be considered as lobbyist.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u48	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u49	Lobby character. And we suffer that if we cannot now vote in the second reading as a law, and if we vote, we can go to the President's veto and delay the adoption of this bill, then perhaps the committee does not object to this and support the factions by voting now without following those remarks, amendments, or by going as the Rules there nevertheless foresee to resolve the issue in this way for a second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u50	Let's do this, my dear fellows. Much of the amendments are included here. If we don't insist on voting on the amendments that are included, then we will consider the amendments that are rejected, we will adopt this bill in second reading, and we will see what is the political will of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in this regard. Because we started, and we can't stop the bill now. Are there no warnings about this approach? Please, Anatoly Matvienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u51	Ukrainian Republican Party "The Council", "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" Block. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I think all you need to do is make adjustments that are considered, whether there are any objections to whether or not to go back to the editor of the first reading. If we go through them, then ask the question for a second reading again, as the amendments that are not counted are still the basis for talking on a second reading. And if we go to vote today, we're just gonna waste time. So there's a compromise proposal: to re-read, but to go through the adjustments that are included. Thus they remain in the body of the law if there is no objection. If anyone objects, then vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u52	Dear colleagues, we cannot selectively follow the amendments. If we have begun our consideration, we must follow all the amendments on which the national MPs will be urged. But after that, when we look at them and see that there is no will to accept them in the second reading, we will send them back to the second, and there will be no problems. But we have to go through this procedure. I know this takes time, but there's no other way out. So let's just go straight. Amendments 1 and 2. Anatoly Seminoga, are you insisting on her?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u53	I don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u54	No, it's not. Amendment 7. Vasil Schpak insists?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u55	No, it's not. I don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u56	Amendment 30. Sigal and a group of national deputies, do you insist on it?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u57	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u58	Amendment 31. Do you insist on her? No, it's not. Amendment 34. Yuri Carmazin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u59	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear reporter! We have 32 and 33 amendments that change the approach to first reading insurance. I think it's an abnormal situation. Because we do not reduce the risk of non-refundation and loss of life or loss of animal production. So my 34 revision is diametrically opposite, so it goes back almost to the first reading. So I would ask, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to put to the vote to support Amendments 32 and 33 if their Hall supports them, so I deny that the first reading is getting worse. I think it's getting worse. It's going to get worse for the state. So I'm asking you to put 32 and 33 in case it's supported, it's not supported by the people's deputies. Then it'll make sense.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u60	I understand your position. I think we can put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u61	Dear colleagues! National MP Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin insists that the Supreme Council of Ukraine be determined by voting on support and amendments 32 and 33, which are considered by the committee. I'll read 32 amendments. This is page 15.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u62	34th and.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u63	No, no, 32nd and 33rd, that's the problem. Paragraph 10.1.2., insert in the following edition: “The risk of death, loss of agricultural products, parts and capital assets shall be carried out by a manufacturer of agricultural products in voluntary form and carried out on the basis of a contract between the insurer and the insurer.” [[Next – person]] This is the amendment of the people's representative of Sigal. Please note that I am voting in favour of Amendment 32. [[10:45:57]] For the five of us. The decision is not taken. Now amendment 33 is also made by national deputy Sigala. Subparagraph 10 1.3 states that voluntary insurance for a particular insurer cannot be a prerequisite for the implementation of other legal relationships. I would like to vote in favour of this amendment. The committee counted it. [[10:46:37]] For-7. Correction not supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u64	Then, Vladimir Mikhailovich, there's no need to vote for 34 and 35, because it's already, we've just supported the first edition.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u65	Then we don't vote. Please, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u66	Dear National Deputies, George Carmazin. Dear Vladimir Mikhajlovich, I thank you for your understanding, just 34 amendments and 35 colleagues of Tkachenka and Demyanczuk are virtually out of need, I agree with the committee and there is no need to vote. Thank you for your considerate approach.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u67	Thank you. 41 amendments, Sigal and a group of national deputies, do you insist? No, it's not. 42nd Seagal. No, it's not. 45, Sigal. Sigal doesn't insist. Then 50 revisions, Ungurian. Are you insisting on her?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u68	Yes!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u69	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, regarding the 50 revisions. The point is that it was proposed to distribute this standard only to enterprises, agricultural enterprises. By my amendment, I propose that this rule be extended to a wider understanding of agri-industrial enterprises, because they are also in crisis today. And I have a question for Mr. Rizuk. I made an amendment to the child’s diet, as it relates to diet, is also a very important social product for today. As far as I know, the committee took this amendment into account for the inclusion of baby food also in the list of foods. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u71	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u72	The committee took this amendment into account. But even after your request, when documents were printed and distributed to fellow members of the national parliament. Yes, if, Vladimir Mikhajlovich, we're going to finish the baby's diet now under the voice protocol, it's not going to be, I think, a violation of the Rules, and it's clear that child nutrition is, it's going to be an object, a subject of state regulation. Add baby food. The committee supports this position.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u73	Dear colleagues, the committee supports the proposal of the national MP Ungurian. That's why I'm putting this one.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u74	After a baby's meal.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u75	As for the child's diet, I'm putting this motion to the vote, please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u76	Include child nutrition as a subject of national regulation
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u77	So the committee supports, dear colleagues. [[10:49:29]] For 190 Now, now, one minute, don't bother me. The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, all other amendments are included. So we already have every reason to put the vote to a second reading of the draft law, no objection? Well, I'm asking you to prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, there is a vote on the proposal by the Committee on Adoption in the second, I stress, in the second reading of the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Agriculture of Ukraine on the Price Regulation of the Agricultural Market, Risk Insurance, Measures for the Restoration of Animals and the Implementation of Social Programmes in the Village. Registration number 2375, please vote. [[10:50:34]] For-41 The decision is not taken. Therefore, the following committee is put to the vote: the second reading of draft law, registration number 2375. Please vote. To the others again. [[10:51:06]] For 241 Decision taken. A draft Law on Associations of Local Self - Government Authorities is being announced for consideration. The rapporteur is the head of the committee's subcommittee on State Building and Local Self-Government Tradeduk Mikola Fedorovich. Mikolo Fedorovich, please. Dear colleagues, this is the law under which they insist, which they ask and propose to receive representatives of local governments.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u78	Honorary Volodymyr Mihajlovich, a respected colleague, was assisted and prepared for the second reading of the draft Ukrainian Law on Associations of Local Self-Government Authorities, adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 23 December 2008. A committee working group has been formed to ensure the proper implementation of this commission and to take into account the position of state authorities and local self - government in the preparation of the project. Representatives of the Association of Ukrainian Cities and Communities, the Ukrainian Association of Local and Regional Authorities, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Regional Development and Construction of Ukraine, the Secretary of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Secretary of the President of Ukraine were involved in the work of the Committee's working group. The working group held 7 meetings, considering 208 proposals for amendments to the legislative initiative, of which 36 were rejected, 22 were taken into account in part and an additional 40 proposals from the district councils submitted to the bill, as well as a note by the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Chief Legal Authority. As a result, the committee’s working group prepared the necessary materials for its consideration at the meeting of the Committee and the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. As a result of this work, the bill has been substantially amended. In addition, I would like to report that in the process of preparing the bill for second reading, the working group has worked on and taken into account practically all the proposals that have come from district and district councils, associations of local self-government of different levels and central authorities. Most of the observations of the scientific and legal administration of the Supreme Council were also taken into account. The committee considered the bill three times at its meetings. And on the last 15 April 2009, after considering the conclusion of the Supreme Council's Chief Legal Authority and the committee's working group to reconcile the material on this issue, he decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine in accordance with the third part of article 123 of the Supreme Council Rules of Ukraine a draft law on associations of local governments to be adopted in the second reading and in general. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u79	Thank you, Mikola Fedorovich. Let's go over the amendments to the draft law. The first amendment of the Lithuanian People’s Deputy is considered by the Committee. Is there a denial of consideration among the national deputies? None. Amendment No. 2 of the People's Deputies of Traduk, Sinchenka, Klukkowski. The committee recommends that we consider it. Is there a denial? There's no objection. Amendment No. 3 of the people's deputies of Traduk, Sinchenka, is partially accounted for. The authors of the amendment have no objection to the wording in which their proposal is taken into account? None. Do the Ukrainian National Deputies object to the amendment proposed by the Committee? None. The fourth amendment of the national deputies of Traduk, Sinchenka, Klukkowski has been rejected. Is there any insistence on taking this amendment into account?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u80	I won't.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u81	You don't? 5th Amendment of the People's Deputy of Klukkowski. Does it insist on taking this correction into account? Don't insist. The 6th Amendment of the People's Deputies of Traduk, Sinchenka is partially accounted for. Is he editing the Committee of People's Deputies? Is there no objection to the committee's drafting?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u82	I won't.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u83	The 8th Amendment of People's Deputies, Semiraq, has been counted. There is no objection to taking this amendment into account? None. 9-tap amendment of the Lithuanian People's Deputy. Is there any objection to the committee's recommendation regarding this amendment? None. The 10 people's deputies of Traduk and Sinchenk are included in part. Is there an amendment proposed by the committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u84	It's fine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u85	It's fine. People's deputies don't deny consideration?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u86	They don't deny it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u87	The 11th Amendment of the People's Deputies of Traduk and Sinchenk is also partially taken into account. No objection to the committee's editing?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u88	I won't.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u89	None. The 12th amendment of the Tikhov People's Deputy is rejected. The Tihonov National MP insists on taking the amendment into account? Don't insist. The 13th amendment of the Tikhov People's Deputy is partially accounted for. Is the committee editable? It's fine. The 14th Amendment of the People's Deputy of Traduk, Sinchenka, Klukkowski is counted. There is no objection to taking this amendment into account? None. The 15th amendment of the People's Deputy of Klukkowski. The committee suggests that we take it into account. Is there a denial of national MPs? None. The 16th Amendment of the People's Chamber of Semiraq has been rejected. Is the National MP Semiraq insisting on considering this amendment and including it? Don't insist. The 17th Amendment of the People's Deputy of Carmazin has been taken into account. Is there a denial of national MPs? None. The 17th Amendment of the People's Deputy of Carmazin has been taken into account. Is there a denial of national MPs? None. 18th Amendment of the People's Deputies of Lithuania. Counted. Is there any objection to taking this amendment into account? None. The 19th Amendment of the People's Traduk and the Sunshine. The committee suggests that we take it into account. There's no objection to the people's deputies? None. The 20th Amendment of the People's Deputy of Carmazin. The committee suggests that we take it into account. Is there a denial? None. 21st Amendment of the People's Deputies of Lithuania. The committee suggests that we take it into account. Is there a denial? None. The 22nd amendment of the Tikhov People's Deputy was rejected. Is the Tihonov National Deputy insisting? Don't insist. The 23rd Amendment of the People's Deputies of Traduk and Sinchenk. The committee suggests that we take it into account. Any objections to the deputies? None. The 24th Amendment of the People's Deputies of Klukkowski, Traduk, Sinchenka. The committee suggests that we take it into account. Is there a denial? None. The 25th Amendment of the People's Deputies of Traduk, Sinchenka. The committee suggests that we take it into account. Is there no objection? None. The 26th Amendment of the People's Deputies of Traduk, Sinchenka. The committee suggests that we take it into account. Is there a denial? None. The 27th Amendment of the People's Deputy Semerak. Overruled. Is the MP insisting? Don't insist. The 28th Amendment of the People's Deputy of Carmazin. Overruled. Don't insist. 29th Amendment of People's Deputies Traduk and Sinchenko. The committee suggests that we take it into account. Is there a denial? None. 30th Amendment of the People's Deputies of Traduk, Sinchenka. The committee suggests that we take it into account. Is there a denial? None. 31st Amendment of People's Chamberac. Partially counted. It's done. The 32nd Amendment of the People's Deputy of Carmazin. Don't insist. 33rd Amendment of the People's Chamber of Commerce, Traduk, Sinchenka, Matvienka. Overruled. Do you insist on considering this amendment? No, it's not. The 34th Amendment of the People's Deputy of Tikhov. Don't insist. 35th Amendment of the People's Deputy of Tikhov. Don't insist. 36th Amendment of the Triduk People's Deputies, Sinchenko. The committee suggests that we take it into account. Is there a denial? None. 37th Amendment of the Triduk People's Deputies, Sinchenko rejected. Do you insist on considering this amendment? Don't insist. The 38th Amendment of the Triduk People's Deputies, by the Committee. Is there a denial of national MPs? None. 39th Amendment of the Tikhov People's Deputy, partially counted. He doesn't insist on taking full account. 40th Amendment of the People's Chamber of Commerce, accounted for. Is there no objection? 41st Amendment of People's Deputy Griesenka, partially counted. Is he editing? I'm good. 42nd Amendment of the People's Deputies of Traiduk, Sinchenko, Matvienko. The committee suggests that we take it into account. Is there a denial? None. 43rd Amendment of the People's Deputy of Klukkowski. The committee suggests that we take it into account. Is there a denial? None. 44th Amendment of the Triduk People's Deputies, Sinchenko. The committee suggests that we take it into account. Is there a denial? None. 45th Amendment of the Semirac People's Chamber. The committee suggests that we take it into account. Is there a denial? I won't. The 46th Amendment of Deputy Carmazina. Is there a miscalculation? I won't. The 47th Amendment of the People's Deputies of Traiduk, Sinchenko, was rejected. Are you insisting on the consideration? No, it's not. The 48th Amendment of the People's Deputy of Klukkowski. The committee suggests that we take it into account. Is there a denial? None. 49th Amendment. The committee suggests that we take it into account. Is there a denial? None. 50th Amendment. The committee suggests that we take it into account. Is there a denial? None. 51st Amendment. The committee suggests that the amendment be taken into account. Is there a denial? None. 52nd Amendment. There's an offer to consider. Is there a denial of MPs? None. 53rd Amendment. There's an offer to consider. Is there a denial? None. 54th. The offer is to take into account. Is there a denial of MPs? None. 55th Amendment. The same is true of the offer. Is there a denial? Is there a objection to the 56th amendment? Is there a denial of MPs after the 57th amendment? Is there a denial at 58? I won't. 59th. Is there a denial? The 60th Amendment -- the Tikhov People's Deputy -- was rejected. Victor Mikolaiovich doesn't insist. 61st Amendment. The recommendation is to consider. Is there a denial? None. 62nd Amendment. Declined. There is no insistence on the people's deputy Tikhov. 63rd Amendment. The offer is to take into account. Is there a denial? None. 64th Amendment. Is there a denial? None. 65th Amendment. Is there a miscalculation? It's the 66th. Declined. The Tikhov National Deputy does not insist. 67th Amendment. Is there a miscalculation? None. It's the 68th. Is there a miscalculation? None. 69th Amendment. Declined. There's no insistence on a national MP. 70th Amendment. Is there a miscalculation? None. 71st Amendment. Is there a miscalculation? None. 72nd Amendment. Is there a miscalculation? None. 73rd Amendment. Is there a denial? None. 74th Amendment, is there a denial? None. The 75th Amendment, rejected, insists on national MPs? Don't insist. 76th Amendment, is there a miscalculation? None. 77th, no objection. The 78th Amendment, the committee's offering to consider. Is there no objection? None. The 79th Amendment, is there a objection? None. Is the 80th amendment a miscalculation? None. 81st, is there a miscalculation? None. 82nd, is there a denial? None. 83, any objections? None. 84th, is there a denial? None. 85th, is there a miscalculation? None. The 86th is rejected. The National MP, Semiraq, insists? Don't insist. 87th, is there a miscalculation? None. 88th, is there a miscalculation? None. 89th, is there a denial? None. The '90s, is there a denial? None. 91st, is there a objection? None. 92nd, is there a miscalculation? None. 93, are there any objections? 94th, is there a miscalculation? None. 95th-refused, National Deputies Triduce, Sinchenko, are you insisting on a review? Don't insist. Ninety-six-six turned down by the people's deputy, Traduk, son of a bitch. Are you insisting? No, it's not. 97 is rejected, Thokhonov. Don't insist. Ninety-eight dismissed, no insistence. 99th. Is there a miscalculation? None. 100th Amendment. Is there a miscalculation? None. The 101st amendment was rejected. Is Klukkowski's national deputy insisting? Don't insist. 102nd Amendment. Is there a miscalculation? None. 103th Amendment. Is there a miscalculation? 104th Amendment overruled. National MP Semerak, do you insist? Don't insist. At 105th Amendment, is there a miscalculation? None. 106th. Is there a miscalculation? 107th. Is there a miscalculation? 108th. Is there a denial? None. 109th. Is there a miscalculation? None. 109th. Is there a miscalculation? 110th. Is there a denial? None. 111th. A rejected amendment by the people's representative, Griesenka. Anatoly Stepanovich, do you insist? Don't insist. 112th Amendment. Is there a miscalculation? None. 113th. Is there a miscalculation? None. 114th. Is there a miscalculation? None. 115th. Is there a denial? None. 116th. Is there a denial? None. 117th. Is there a denial? None. 118th. Is there a denial? None. 120th. Is there a miscalculation? None. 121st. Is there a miscalculation? None. 122nd. Is there a denial? None. 123rd. Is there a miscalculation? None. 124th. Is there a miscalculation? None. 125th. Is there a miscalculation? None. 126th. Is there a miscalculation? None. 127th. Is there a denial to consider an amendment? None. 128th. Is there a denial? None. 129th. Is there a denial? None. 130th. There's no objection. 131st. Is there a denial? None. 132nd. Is there a miscalculation? None. 133rd. Is there a denial? None. 134th. Is there a denial? None. 135th. Do you mind? None. 136th. Is there a denial? None. 137th. Is there a denial? None. 138th. There's no objection. 139th. Is there a denial? None. 140th. Is there a denial? None. 141st. Is there a denial? None. 142nd. Is there a miscalculation? None. 143th. Is there a denial? None. 144th. Is there a denial? None. 145th. Is there a denial? None. 146th. Is there a denial? None. 147th. Is there a denial? None. 148th. Is the objection taken into account? None. 149th. Is there a miscalculation? None. 150th. Is there a denial? None. 151st. Is there a denial? None. 152nd, partially counted. National MP Lazko doesn't insist on his editorial? Don't insist. 153rd. Is there a miscalculation? None. 154th. Is there a miscalculation? 155th National MP Griesenko, do you insist on taking your amendment into account? Don't insist. 156th. Are there any objections to the committee's drafting? None. 157th. Is there a miscalculation? None. 158th. Is there a miscalculation? None. 159th. Is there a miscalculation? None. 160th. Is there a miscalculation? None. 161th. Is there a miscalculation? None. 162nd is negative. Is the Tihonov National Deputy insisting? Don't insist. 163th. Is there a miscalculation? None. 164th. Is there a miscalculation? None. 165th National MP Semerak insists. Please, microphone to the People's Chamberlain.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u90	Dear colleagues, the substance of the amendment is that the draft law provides for a new procedure for the budgetary process. We have the Budget Code, which clearly sets out the procedure for the adoption of the State budget and provides all the points to take into account the needs of local self - government. I would ask you not to break the budget code and support my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u91	165 amendments to the Semerac People's Chamber vote, please be made. [[11:15:46]] For-76 The decision is not taken. Correction not supported. 166th Amendment overruled. Anatoly Stepanovich Grizzenko, insist? I see he's not insisting. 167th Amendment. Is there a miscalculation? None. 169th. Is there a miscalculation? None. 170th, people's deputy Griesenka, the amendment has been rejected. Don't insist. 171st Amendment. Is there a miscalculation? None. 172th, People's Deputy Griesenka's amendment has been rejected. He's not insisting again. 173rd Amendment. Is there a miscalculation? None. 174th Amendment. A national MP does not insist. 175th. He doesn't insist either. 176th Amendment. Are there any objections to the committee's drafting? None. 177th Amendment. Is there a miscalculation? None. 178th Amendment. Overruled. Is Semerak's national deputy insisting? Don't insist. 179th Amendment. National MP Klukkowski, do you insist? Don't insist. 180th. Is there a miscalculation? None. 181. Is there a miscalculation? None. 182nd. Is the people's deputy Klukkowski insisting? Don't insist. 183rd. Is there a miscalculation? None. 184th. There's no objection. 185th. There's no objection. 186th. There's no objection. 187th. There's no objection. 188th. There's no objection. 189th. There's no objection. 190th Amendment. There's no objection. The 191st amendment of the Samerak People's Chamberlain was rejected. Are you insisting? No, it's not. 192nd. Is there a miscalculation? None. 193. Is there a miscalculation? None. 194th. Is there a miscalculation? None. 195th. We agree with the committee. Is there a denial? None. 196th. Is there a miscalculation? None. 197th. Is there a miscalculation? None. 198th. National MP Klukkowski agrees with the committee's proposed editorial? It's okay. Any objections to the national MPs? None. 199th Amendment. Is there a miscalculation? None. 200th Amendment. Is there a miscalculation? None. 201st Amendment. Is there a miscalculation? None. 202nd Amendment. Is there a miscalculation? None. 203rd Amendment. Is Semerak's national MP in agreement with the committee's drafting? It's okay. Is there any objection to this editorial? None. 204th Amendment. Is there a miscalculation? None. 205th Amendment. Is there a objection to the committee's editing? None. 206th Amendment. Is Semerak's national deputy insisting? Don't insist. 207th Amendment to the Committee. People's deputies don't insist. 208th Amendment. Is there a miscalculation? None. So we've considered all of the amendments made by the people's deputies. We have, of course, an unprecedented case, essentially a new version of the law. The number of amendments that the Supreme Council of Ukraine can claim is included. I am voting on the second reading of the draft Law on Associations of Local Self-Government Authorities. Please vote. [[11:21:18]] For 386 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, are there any observations that need to be taken into account in order to bring the individual standards of this law into line? Can we put it to a vote as a whole? I'm voting on the adoption of the whole draft Law on Associations of Local Self-Government Authorities. [[Registration number 2477]] I'd like to make a statement. [[11:22:01]] For 392 Decision taken. The law's been passed. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Local Government Administrations, as defined by the President of Ukraine, is being announced for consideration, [[Registration number 1311]] She's reporting, Alexander Alexanderovich Omelchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u92	Good day to us, honourable national deputies, good afternoon all present in the Hall, the Supreme Council of the President of Ukraine last January 10th, introduced a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Local Government Administrations. This law was political in nature, but on March 18, last year, the Supreme Council adopted it as a foundation. The committee established a working group to prepare the bill for second reading. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that the working group has not received any positive conclusions from the local authorities and everyone without excluding the regions of Ukraine. Why? Because draft Law 1311 severely violated the rights of local governments. In fact, he placed local self - government authorities in line with district and district administrations. So a strong administrative resource was created for all election campaigns. I'm giving you an example. Today, district councils and district councils do not have their own executive bodies, so they delegate their authority to district and district administrations. In this case, if district and district administrations can suspend acts of local self-government, they actually lose their own initiative and independence. [[I mean local self-government.]] Therefore, the Committee considered this issue and introduced a draft for consideration by the Supreme Council in accordance with the first part of article 48 and the second part of article 95 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 18 March 2008 and withdrawing the project, 1311, as it had lost its relevance. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u93	Alexander Aleksandrovich, please tell us, after the first reading of the draft law, did the Committee receive proposals from the Ukrainian National Deputies to improve it?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u94	Thank you. Alexander Volodymyrovich's question is answered in such a way that, without exception, all political forces have declared and declare today the relevance of supporting local self-government, democratizing society and creating their own executive bodies of district and district councils. That's why I'm saying that everyone, without exception, has this political power of opinion. And I repeat, no positive feedback from the Committee's regions has been received.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u95	Dear Alexander Alexander, I'm not talking about politics, I'm sorry, I'm asking you once again by law: after the first reading of this draft law or the subject of the legislative initiative, did they make their proposals to this law or not to the committee? Is there one or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u96	We held, I repeat, we held, at the level of the Head of the Supreme Council, with the heads of the district councils, without the exception of everyone and the invited heads of the cities. district and district subordinations, where there is a common protocol, which states clearly that the authorities of the district, district councils should have their executive bodies and that the district and district administrations should remain as soon as the coordinating and supervisory authorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u97	Dear colleagues, I'm sorry to have to say a few words about the Rules, because we have a draft law, any one approved in the first reading, after which time is given for two weeks for all subjects of the legislative initiative to make their proposals on this draft law. These proposals must be considered by a profile committee and proposed to the Supreme Council for consideration and recommendations on their approval or rejection. That's why I had a question. I see that there are representatives of the committee to clarify this situation. Please, Matvienko Anatoly Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u98	Ukrainian Republican Party "The Council", "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" Block. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, I am addressing you, and I don't understand the proposal that just came from the head of the committee. I don't want to touch the content of this law, as it's not only about the right of the administration to suspend a decision of a village council or a village council and bring it to trial, but there's also a procedure for what reasons and how the head of the administration is being released -- whether he is being mistrusted and under what circumstances he may be fired. The bill received proposals. Unfortunately, I don't know when I was held under the dome. It was a political decision. No specific proposals were considered by the committee. We now have no right under the Rules to make such a decision, even to vote for it. The committee should make all the proposals made to this law. The second thing is to agree with them or reject them.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u99	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u100	The Supreme Council should consider each of these proposals, and if the law is not adopted in the second reading, only then is it regarded as rejected. Repealing the law, which in the first reading, is a know-how that no one has ever practiced before in the Supreme Council. And it seems to me that it is unacceptable to support such a practice. We have to take it off the table today and ask the committee to pass the law on to the second reading -- and then make the decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u101	Thank you. Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u102	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, I don't see any problems. Unfortunately, there are two decisions of the committee: one decision of the committee of 21 May 2008 on the adoption of the law in the second reading, and a comparative table prepared; the second decision taken recently is not in accordance with the Rules: to cancel all previous decisions. So according to 123, if I'm not mistaken, the articles have to look at it, they have to look at a comparative table. Clearly, her fate awaits her, and clearly she will. So you have to go to the comparison table.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u103	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Actually, I've been trying to get the reporter to see if there's a correlation table with the amendments. Now we are. I ask that all the deputies who have these documents take them to themselves, and we will consider this bill in accordance with the Rules: every amendment that has come from the Ukrainian National Deputies. Amendment 1: People’s Deputies Bondar, Klukkowski, Triduk The committee suggests that we take it into account. You know, for the Supreme Council of Ukraine it's not critical, we have to look at this bill. I'm going to call the amendment number right now -- please, if there's any insistence in the session room, we're going to vote on the amendment. Amendment number one. Is there a denial? There's no objection. I'm sorry, Mr. Alexander Sergiyovich suggests that we postpone the consideration of the draft law. This was to be done earlier. The bill is currently under consideration and we have no right to interrupt it. Amendment number 2. Is there a denial of rejection? None. Amendment number 3. Is there a denial? None. Number four, the committee's proposing a rejection. The MPs don't insist. The 5th National Deputy of Seminog insists? Don't insist. 6th National Deputy Tereshuk insists? No, it's not. 7th, insists a national MP? No, it's not. 8 insists? No, it's not. The 9th, insists a national MP? Don't insist. 10th. Is the National MP insisting? No, it's not. 11th. MP Pisarenko insists? No, it's not. The 12th. Is there a miscalculation? None. 13th. Is there a miscalculation? None. 14th. Is there a miscalculation? None. 15th? None. 16th. A national MP does not insist. 17th? Not at all. And that's a recommendation. Is there a denial? None. 19th, insists the People's MP Pisarenko? Don't insist. 20th? There are no objections to accounting. 21st. Is there a denial? None. 22nd. Is there a denial? None. 23rd. Is there a denial? None. 24th. Is there a denial? None. 25th. Is there a denial? I won't. 26th. Is there a denial? I won't. 27th. Is there a miscalculation? None. 28th. Is there a denial? The national deputy of Vizewski, dismissed. Don't insist. 29th Amendment, do you have any objection? None. 30th, insists a national MP? Don't insist. 31st. Is there a miscalculation? None. 32nd. Is there a denial? Thirty-three. Is there a denial? 34th. Is there a denial? None. 35th. Is there a denial? None. 36th. Is the MP Pisarenko insisting? Don't insist. 37th. Is there a miscalculation? None. 38. 39th. 40's rejected. Is the national deputy of Vyezovsky insisting? Don't insist. 41st. Rejected, national MP Klukkowski. Don't insist. 42nd. Is there no objection? None. 43rd. Is there no objection? None. 44th. Is there a denial? None. 45th. National MP Tuck insists on counting? Don't insist. 46th. Is there a miscalculation? None. 47th. Steksky's national deputy insists? Don't insist. 48th. Is there a miscalculation? None. 49th. Anatoly Sergiyovich, are you insisting? Anatoly Sergiyovich insists. Amendment 49, People's Deputy Matthews.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u104	Alexander Volodymyrovich, I would like to take this opportunity to contact you with the following information, just so that the MPs know the objective truth. The point is that really under this law, this table was considered, and 1313, which is the next bill, it's correlated with this bill, because it's about making changes to local self-government about how to strengthen the real people. And so it was made technologically that, as necessary, the working group would work on the second bill, and then these two bills would be considered in pairs. The 1313 proposals made by the deputies have not been considered at all. So just the MPs have to understand that we have to complete this procedure and then look at it. So I would suggest that I vote in favour of re-reading, 1313 complete. And then take them into a complex, like two bills that are correlated.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u105	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u106	What we're doing right now is we're just doing, well, we're wasting time and in any case we're not improving the situation with local self-government.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u107	I want to tell you that, of course, you can talk about the efficiency of time use, that's for sure. But there is a procedure laid down by the Rules and I understand that every result has the right to have its amendment considered in the session room, otherwise it would simply not have made it. So I realize that after considering these amendments, we're going to make a decision, or we're going to make another decision, or we're going to make a decision, or we're going to make a decision. We will consider all the amendments made in accordance with the Rules, and the Committee has submitted them to a comparative table. Amendment number 50. Is there a miscalculation? None. 51 revisions. Is there a miscalculation? None. 52nd. The national deputy of the Stacks? Don't insist. 53rd. Is there a miscalculation? None. 54th. Is there a denial? None. 55th. Is there a denial? None. 56th. People's MP Pisarenko insists? No, it's not. 57th. Is there a denial? None. 58th. Is the national deputy Bodnar insisting? Don't insist. 59th. Is there a denial? None. 60th. Is there a denial? None. 61st. Taras Stepanovich does not insist. 62nd. Don't insist. 63rd. Mikola Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u108	Dear colleagues! I want to take advantage of the fact that my amendment has to be here and it's partly taken into account to suggest that we speed up the procedure. Here, where the four national deputies actually made amendments, they are all present. Total amendments 158. If those MPs don't insist, Alexander Volodymyrovich, I would ask that someone who insists should make an amendment sound so that we can move faster under this law. It's pretty obvious that we're now doing a story called error work. And once our political faction decided to support the idea of limiting regional local self-government, it was a mistake, we're correcting this mistake now. So I propose that if none of the deputies insists on their amendments, go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u109	Thank you, Mikola Volodymyrovich. If there are no objections to national MPs, I can ask you right now, all the national MPs whose amendments are rejected, do they agree not to put these amendments to the vote? Are there MPs who insist on voting separately on their amendments that the committee recommends rejecting? Are there any deputies? Is there any objection in the session room at this time to taking into account the amendments the committee recommends to take into account? Is there a denial? None. Thus, the text proposed by the committee refers to the second reading vote. There is a second reading vote on the draft Law on Local Government Administrations, amendment, registration No. 1311, please identify yourself. [[11:41:49]] For-12. The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine, designated by the President of Ukraine as urgent, registration number 1313, is being announced for consideration. Omelchenko Alexander Alexandrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u110	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take this into account, and I would like to say that the President of Ukraine, as an urgent 10th of January last year, was introduced a bill under number 1313 on local self-government in Ukraine. In fact, this bill envisaged once again the lack of democratization, the lack of rights of local self-government. But this law was considered by the committee on March 18, last year as an off-limit submitted by the President of Ukraine. A committee working group was set up, we sent all the district councils and local self-governance bodies requests and received no positive response to the draft law. So, as the people's deputy Matvienko has already said, Law 1313 is irrelevant as Law 1311 for the same reasons, because it does not go into decentralization of power, not control, and it violates all the rights of local self-government. Therefore, the committee considered the meeting and recommended today in the session room under part one of article 48, section two, article 95, of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, that the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 18 March 2008 be revoked and that the bill be withdrawn from consideration as having become obsolete. Ladies and gentlemen, please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u111	Alexander Alexanderovich, I have a question with you about the previous draft law. After the adoption of the first reading, were amendments made by the people’s deputies, the Cabinet of Ministers, the President of Ukraine, to this draft law?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u112	I, Alexander Volodymyrovich, gave the information that was before. At the level of the Head of the Supreme Council, a meeting of the advisory body was held at the Head of the Supreme Council with all the district heads of the councils, the heads of the city, the district and the district subordinations. Everyone has supported, without exception, that Law 1311, the project, and 1313 violates the rights of local self-government authorities, leads to the centralization of the government of Kiev from Banking, the strengthening of the role of district and district administrations, which has been and remains an administrative resource for the election of all organs, including the President of Ukraine today. Therefore, I would like to point out that the President of Ukraine, with a great deal of delay since 10 January 2008, submitted to the Supreme Council on 31 March this year a draft amendment to the Constitution of Ukraine, where the regional and district councils can form executive bodies and local government administrations will be only monitoring and coordination bodies. [[Registration number 4290]] Thus, the President of Ukraine acknowledged his mistake and, in fact, his secretariat on March 31, 2008 amended the Constitution, which did not provide for the draft law of 1311 on January 10, 2008.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u113	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. Again, I did not ask about politics, but I did ask about the legislative procedure. Please write this matter down. National deputy of Vyezovsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u114	Vladimir Viezowski. Please pass the word to Yuri Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u115	Klukkowski Yuri Bogdanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u116	Thank you. Yuri Klukkowski, “Our Ukraine”. I want to say right away that I disagreed with the committee's decision. Moreover, it was accepted, not at a regular meeting of the committee, but at an extraordinary three - minute meeting. The bill is really controversial. It is aimed at the implementation of 143 articles of a valid Constitution, but it has really sparked much discussion. But I would like to point out that the bill contains not one norm, but many different. And so to reject it in general just because one norm doesn't like it as much as I do is just irrational. As for me, he could have been further prepared for second reading. Yet, long ago, indeed, after a purely counseling meeting, a political decision was made not to work on the bill. And the committee's work on it was not done, although, of course, proposals were made. The will of the hall, whether it is a political decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u117	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u118	It's the will of the hall whether to cancel this bill or to reject it or not. But it seems to me that this is not a rational path enough, and this means that the solution to these problems will be delayed indefinitely. And there were standards for the development of local democracy, for the implementation of the European Charter on Local Self-Government.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u119	Matthew Valentin Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u120	Thank you. Please pass the word to Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u121	Thank you, Valentin Grigorovich. Dear colleagues, I ask you to pay attention for a moment so that we can act with solidarity and logic. I would like to remind you that the bill that we had previously considered and did not get approval under number 1311 and the bill that is now being considered under number 1313, which was submitted by the President as interconnected bills. Because the first language was about strengthening the role of public administrations, and accordingly, if it were to receive support, it would be necessary to vote and support the next bill, which regulated the relationship between government and local government. Given that we have not supported the previous bill, the bill that we are currently considering has absolutely no meaning or meaning, because it comes out of a previous bill that no longer becomes law. Let's vote and.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u122	Efraemov Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u123	Please pass the word to Chechchev Mikhail.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u124	Dear colleagues, we can fully agree with Alexander Alexandrovic's position, and this position is supported by local authorities. Indeed, the President is trying to play, not in his field, not in the constitutional field, and he is preparing a powerful administrative resource or fist to sell the necessary percentages to the President in the elections, but the political force behind him, in order to at least overcome the 3 per cent barrier, although they will not even pass the parliament. So, I think we need to cross this law again and bury it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u125	Dear colleagues, this is how we came to the solution. Since the proposals for this law are not made, I am voting on the adoption of the draft Law, which was approved in the first reading in the same edition, of amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine. [[Registration number 1313]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:52:37]] For-22. The decision is not taken, the bill is rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u126	Thank you, Nationals, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u127	The draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Act on Freedom of Movement and Free Choice of Residence in Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[0914]] Reported to the head of the committee, Philipenko Vladimir Pilipovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u128	Thank you. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! The draft of the bill for the third reading provided for amendments to article 29 of the Ukrainian Civil Code. The Committee concluded that the proposed draft article 29 of the Civil Code, which recognized the place of residence of the individual not as a house, apartment or other premises, could not be accepted, but simply as an administrative and territorial unit, since, according to article 92, paragraph 13, of the Constitution, Ukraine is solely governed by the territorial system of Ukraine. Unfortunately, today, there is no law to consolidate the concept of “administrative-territorial unit”. And according to the content of the first part of article 133 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the system of the administrative and territorial system is meant to mean the system of the administrative and territorial units, which consists of: the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the districts, the districts, the cities, the areas in the cities, the villages, the villages. In this regard, what does a person’s place of residence have to be understood? Moreover, this approach to determining a person’s place of residence does not take into account the general meaning of this term in civil, private, or private relations, where he is used to address issues related to the existence, realization, and protection of property rights. For example, according to article 62 of the Ukrainian Civil Code, care and care is set aside for a person who needs care or caregiver, or for a caregiver or caregiver. According to article 12.21 of the Civil Code, the last place to discover an inheritance is the inheritance. At the same time, the definition of “place of residence” as an administrative and territorial unit in whose territory a person resides, in article 3 of the Ukrainian Act on Freedom of Movement and Free Choice of Residence, relates primarily to the exercise of the right to freedom of movement and the free choice of territory in which a natural person wishes to live, not to the acquisition, change or termination of property rights. That is, the Act on freedom of movement and free choice of residence in Ukraine uses the term “place of residence” in the public administration. In preparing the bill for the third reading, Ukrainian national MPs who initiated the creation of a working group from the drafting of the project unfortunately did not submit any written proposals to the Legal Policy Committee that would allow the existing shortcomings of the bill to be addressed. Having considered the bill at its meeting, the committee proposes to leave the existing edition of article 29 of the Civil Code of Ukraine and, in the text of the bill, to instruct the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to develop, within three months, amendments to the Civil Code of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Freedom of Movement and the Free Choice of Residence, which will take account of any possible changes to the Civil Code of Ukraine. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u129	It's a complicated problem. I can see that she's not making up her mind to the end. So we approved this draft law in the second reading, now the third reading, and we have the only mission to agree on. Is there any objection to the Ukrainian National Deputies on the basis of the proposal made by the Professional Committee? Klukkovsky Yuri Bogdanovich, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u130	Thank you. Yuri Klukkowski, “Our Ukraine”. I don't have the suggestions for counting or not counting, but rather questions. And what are we going to do next, and how are we going to live when two important legal and regulatory acts are completely different and do not define the concept of “place of residence” in a consistent way? What will the social services be called then? What will be the definition of other issues, particularly appeals to the court, in civil matters, if I don't have a court of law in my apartment, and I have to go to the court for a place of residence. How can we solve these problems?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u131	Yuri Bogdanovich, we discussed this with you on the committee. You were in our meeting, and we agreed that public relations and private law should unfortunately be settled in a separate order, because the objects protecting these relations are different, Yuri Bogdanovich. Therefore, we now suggest that the Civil Code should not be amended but rather that it should be left to that effect, but that it should be authorized to make the necessary changes. Sadly, the working group discussed on the second reading did not take the initiative. The committee came out of what it was.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u132	Dear colleagues, any further questions to the committee? None. I am voting on the adoption in the third reading and in the whole of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Act on Freedom of Movement and Freedom of Selection in Ukraine. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:58:21]] For 347 Decision taken. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 30 minutes. The leaders of the MP factions are requested to enter the office of the Chief of the Supreme Council on the Conciliation Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u133	Yeah. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats so that we can continue our meetings. Let me inform you of the outcome of the meeting of the Conciliation Council of Ukraine. We discussed the proposal for today's consideration of the bill on public procurement and, given the fact that this document is being processed in the General Legal Office, there are many amendments to it, we have decided to complete the procedure for its consideration in the General Legal Office, distributed comparative tables so that the Supreme Council of Ukraine can come back consciously, I want to stress, consciously, responsible for the consideration of this bill on 14 May. As for the creation of the Temporary Investigation Commission, which relates to the study of the “Inter” Channel. Such a decision is that, in view of what is being pointed out in the draft relevant Order of the Committee on Rules, MPs, and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council, it is suggested that the authors of this document: clarify all the circumstances, eliminate the disagreements, reconcile the project with that of its committee. After consideration of the committee, he will be brought to the attention of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in order to ensure that regulatory standards are respected in such sensitive matters. As for the issue of banking services, the solution is that it should be the voluntary choice of each employee and national deputy where he wants to serve. With regard to proposals for amendments to the Law on Temporary Investigative Commissions, the Committee on Rules, MPs and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine received this document. He will study it, consider it, and after the committee's decision, the bill will be proposed for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. At the same time, in view of the need to agree on a number of positions, the Conciliation Council concluded that it was necessary to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine postpone its consideration of the bill. I'll read these bills: 1114, 3429, 3585, 0909, as well as bills: 0875, 0876, 0877. And we agreed that the Supreme Council of Ukraine would support, by its vote, the postponement, the transposition of these bills in relation to the need to reconcile positions so that we could make effective decisions about them. I'm voting on this proposal and I'm asking you to support it. [[12:42:59]] For 353 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, according to established tradition and schedule of meetings, we are now going to consider issues related to the election of judges, the release of judges, and the granting of consent to the arrest of judges. I invite the head of the committee of Kiwalov Sergey Vasilovich, please. Now we're going to start looking at the draft regulation, registration number 4304.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u134	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Ladies and gentlemen! The Supreme Council Committee on Justice at its April 1st and 15th sessions considered the appointment of the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Administrative Court, the Head of the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine on the selection of judges on an indefinite basis and the election of judges previously elected on an indefinite basis, the submission of the High Council of Justice on the dismissal of judges under general circumstances and the submission of the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, supported and submitted by the Supreme Court of Ukraine on the granting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine an order to arrest and arrest judges. You are well aware of the procedure. The judges are in the guest bed and on the balcony. The draft decision 4304 of the Committee recommends that judges be appointed on an uninterrupted basis: the Court of Appeal of the Dnipropetrov Region of Karatayev Ludmila Alexiyevna; Odessa’s Administrative Court of Appeal Queen Alexander Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u135	Just a minute. Is there a warning about the tailor? Let's make a note and move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u136	Kyiv's Court of Appeal Popokow Olga Volodymyrný; the local Simferopol District Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Hmaruk Natal Sergiyevna; the local Bari district court of the Winnitruk region of Volodymyr Mikolaiovich; the local Crinican District Court of the Dnipropetrov region of Lysniak Victoria Volodymyrna; the local Petrovsky District Court of Donetsk Kasnacheva Eduard Hennadyovich; the local Wolowitz District Court of Zakarpatsky District, Vasil Andriyovich; the local Bogorodčany District Court of Ivano-Frankiv district of Bitkovsky Lubomir Mihajlovich; the local Suvorov district court of Odessa Gusev Alexander Hennadyovich; the local Auto-Vehicle District Court of Kremenchuk Poltava DistrictSedo Anatolia Vasilovich; the local Theofipolsky District Court of the Hmelnicke District of Dreckov Svetlana Petrovna;
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u137	Just a minute. About Theophilus? Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u138	It's a lunch.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u139	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u140	The local Obolonian District Court of Kiev Cretin Angel Valerievna; The local Solomonian District Court of Kyiv Kiyun Ludmila Ivanovna; the local court of the Luhansk district of Sedlar Olga Alexandrovna; The local court of the Mikolai district of Filinjuk Ivan Georgievovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u141	One minute, Mikolai district, huh? Mikolai district?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u142	It's a Filipino.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u143	Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u144	Local Commercial Court of Sevastopol Harchenk Igor Arsentiyovich Please support the project.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u145	Dear colleagues, three candidates have been noted, this is Kravec Alexander Alexander, Drewkov Svetlana Petrovna and Filinjuk Ivan Georgiyyovich, the local court of the Mikolaiiv region. [[Odessa Court of Appeal]] [[Local Theofipolsky District Court of Hmeljnitsk Region]] We're removing these three names. If there are no other warnings, any comments, I'm voting on the adoption of the Bill, registration No. 4304 on the selection of judges with the deletion of the names of Kravec, Drewkov and Filinuk, please vote. [[12:48:10]] For 361 Decision taken. Now, please, Andrew School, your comment on Cow Alexander Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u146	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Judge Kravec Alexander Alexandrovich cannot be elected Supreme Council for term, for he marvels at the large number of cases of cancellations and changes in decisions of approvals and rulings, including, for example, his unobjective consideration of cases. In the interest of a minor named Nazarenko, Radio’s decision to remove obstacles to use and to the universe. Under the direction of the judge, the court considered the case in the absence of the defendants, failed to determine the rights and responsibilities of the parties. The decision has been revoked in the appropriate instance. In another case, the court under his headship in the seventh year wrongly applied the rules of substantive law in the case of the so-called citizen of Dmitriev to the administration of the Ukrainian Pension Fund in the Kyiv district of Odessa for the recognition of misconduct in the calculation of the pension and the recognition of unlawful refusal to do so. Since such a ruling could not be considered legal, the Court of Appeal had been annulled. On the basis of the foregoing, I do not think we can vote for the election of the Cow Alexander Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u147	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u148	Vladimir Mihajlovich, we have dealt with each judge separately on the committee and no questions have been raised on the committee regarding Kravec Aleksandro Aleksandrović. We voted, if memory does not change, unanimously in favour of this candidature. And I'd like my colleagues to support Crawler Alexander Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u149	Now. Demchuk? Please, Demchuk, microphone. Boy, am I right? Levchuk! Oh, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Microphone, please. Levtsun, faction of the Timoshenko Yulia Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u150	Dear colleagues, I know Alexander Alexandrovich well, I know he's a professional lawyer, a qualified judge, a man who can work and should work in a court of law. What's different is that we have to look at the committee, and here we say, something dissatisfied, two parties necessarily, some discontented, three cases canceled, it's not so much, it's not so much anymore, and I think we should support Alexander Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u151	Dear colleagues, the position of the committee brought to you is that of our colleague, do we need to hear the explanation of Alexander Alexander Kravc? You don't? Nobody insists? That's why I'm voting on the committee's proposal, and I'm asking you to pay attention to the election of the judge on an untimely basis, Alexander Alexandrovitch, Odessa's Administrative Court of Appeal. Please vote. [[12:51:37]] For 234 Decision taken. Now Drewkova Svetlana Petrovna is the local Theophilus District Court of the Hmelnicke District. Who? Cowchuck, please, microphone. The faction of the Yulia Tymoshenko. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u152	At the expense of Judge Druck’s entire list of decisions on civil matters that have been annulled by the Hmélník Court of Appeal. In a criminal case, she lets a criminal out of the court with a suspended sentence, and the Hmélník Court of Appeal annuls her sentence and condemns five years of imprisonment. Judge Druckovy’s candidacy has been reviewed three times on the committee. I ask her to be put to the vote separately.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u153	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u154	We have indeed considered three times at a meeting of the Committee: 11.06.08, 04.02.09 and this is the last time on 01.04. All the complaints against Svetlana Petrovna were considered in the discussion. And the Committee decided to recommend to Dreckov Svetlan Petrovna that it should be addressed on an uninterrupted basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u155	Mikola Rudchenko, please, a member of the Justice Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u156	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, friends. Three times the committee considered the matter of the Hand, and here, as a billing, nothing can be done. In his time, this man protected the labor force of the sugar plant. The factory's working today. He didn't fall to be cut out. That's not just how the factory works, it's how the drilling zone works. These people are thanking this man. Therefore, there is no reason not to vote for it. I'm asking you to back me up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u157	Dear colleagues, are there any other considerations? The committee proposes a positive decision. I put to the vote the proposal of the committee to elect Judge Druck Svetlana Petrovna, the local Theophilus District Court of the Hmelnicke District. Please vote. [[12:54:25]] For-153 The decision is not taken. I ask the committee to go back to the subject, taking into account the comments made today during the meeting. Please, now, the local court of the Mikolai district of Filinuk Ivan Georgievovich. The remarks were made by our colleague Zabzaluk, the BUT faction. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u158	The point is that I have been repeatedly referred to by citizens and judges working in the Mikolai district for possible violations or wrong-doing decisions by a valid judge and household court in the Mikolai district. Accordingly, I was directed to a committee of the Supreme Council on justice. The committee addressed this appeal to the Supreme Court of Ukraine. And the Board of Judges of the Ukrainian Commercial Courts gave me the answer: “At present, a member of the Council of Judges of the Ukraine of Baloch is charged with carrying out a background check. The results of the test will give you an answer.” Thus, the work of this judge is being checked today in connection with the complaints brought about by him. So I suggest we postpone this decision, wait for the answer and make a decision on the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u159	Please make a proposal to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u160	Well, we, I have to make the recommendations of the committee. The Committee recommended that Ivan Georgievic be elected on an indefinite basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u161	People's MP Philippeenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u162	Thank you. Dear colleagues, in this case, it is necessary to determine whether the information provided by my colleague needs further inspection on the committee. That's it. If other information was the subject of this judge’s examination, it may be necessary to wait for the results of this examination. It is now necessary to determine what the Council of Judges of Ukraine is considering. And it's up to you to decide whether or not to do an extra check. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u163	Vladimir Mihajlović, the chairman of the Ukrainian Council of Judges, Philipczuk Petr Filippović, attended the meeting, and he had no questions either.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u164	Dear colleagues, there is an offer. Another colleague Zabzaluk? Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u165	The point is that the committee itself does not comply with existing legislation, since it was the committee that sent these materials to the Supreme Court of Ukraine for clarification. So I have a proposal to raise this issue separately and to vote it out, because the committee itself should probably wait to find out the circumstances that gave rise to the appeal to the Supreme Court of Ukraine, and to the national deputy and committee, by the way, I emphasize.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u166	Dear colleagues, you can do this. There are two proposals. The committee's first proposal to make a decision. A second suggestion from the national deputies suggested that we postpone consideration of the matter. So let's do it this way. Let's put to the vote a motion to postpone consideration of Judge Firinuk's candidacy. If this proposal is not supported, we logically predict that the Supreme Council of Ukraine will support the appointment of this judge. No objections? So I will now put to the vote the question of delaying the appointment of Judge Firinjuk Ivan Georgievovich. [[May I have your attention, ……]] This is the local court of the Mikolai district. I'd like you to determine how to vote. [[12:58:48]] For 316 Decision taken. Please, Decree 4372.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u167	The Committee recommends that judges be appointed on an uninterrupted basis: the Court of Appeal of the Chernivecki District of Irina Borisovna; the local Lithuanian District Court of the Viennese Region of Bilik Natalija Volodymyrna; the local Lokachin district court of the district of Volin district of Korneluk Vasil Semenović; the local Krasnogvardy District Court of Dnipropetrovska Rusnaka Anatolia Ivanovich; the local Malinov district court of Odessa Mikhailuk Oleg Anatoliyovich; the local Primorski District Court of Odessa Terzi Igor Georgievovich; the local District Court of Bondarenko Nadija Volodymyrna; The local Ternopil Regional Court of the Ternopil region of Yvaszczenka Alexandr Yuriovich; the local Novozavod District Court of Chernigova Chentsov Svetlana Mikolayovna; the local courts of the Gitomir district of Bragina Jaroslav Vasilovna; The local court of the Kyiv district of Grjehova Anatolia Stanislavovic, Košik Andrija Yuriovich and Ryabtsev Olga Alexiyevna. Please support the draft decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u168	Are there no honourable colleagues, no warnings, no proposals for a draft ruling?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u169	A draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of judges is put to the vote. [[Registration number 4372]] Please vote. [[13:00:56]] For 355 Decision taken. Now, let's go over the decision number 4305.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u170	The Committee recommends the selection of judges previously elected as judges on an indefinite basis: the Supreme Court of Ukraine, Ivan Volodymyrovich, Shapoval Olga Anatoliyevna; The Court of Appeal of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Billous Victoria Vasilovna, Custov Irina Viktorovna; the Court of Appeal of the Donetsk Region of Bedeliev Sergey Ivanovich; the Court of Appeal of the Cerkas region of Igor Anatoliyovich; The Kyiv Administrative Court of Appeal, Kuzmenko Volodymyr Volodymyrovich; Kharkiv's Administrative Court of Appeal of Green Vladimir Viktorovich, Katounova Vladislav Volodymyrovich, Ljubčič Lubov Vasilovna. Please support this bill. This motion for determination, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u171	Honorable colleagues, comments, warnings about the draft Decree 4305 have one of the national deputies. I can't see. A proposal is therefore put to the vote for a committee to adopt a draft Supreme Council decree on the election of judges. [[Registration number 4305]] Please vote. [[13:02:36]] For 347 Decision taken. Announcing the draft Decree. [[Registration number 4373]]
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u172	The committee recommends that judges previously elected on an indefinite basis be elected as judges: The Kiev Administrative Court of Appeal, Danilov Malvin Volodymyrna; Kharkiv’s Administrative Court of Appeal, Mild Eugenia Vejacheslavovich, Spaskina Oleg Anatoliyovich. Please support the draft decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u173	Dear colleagues, there are no other suggestions? A draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of judges, registration number 4373, is submitted to the vote. Please vote. [[13:03:37]] For 349 Decision taken. The draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is announced for consideration. [[Registration number 4306]]
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u174	The committee recommends that the judges be dismissed: The Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine, Panchenka Aleksija Ivanovich; the Court of Appeal of the Dnipropetrov District of Fisunov Leonid Leonidovich; the Court of Appeal of the Kirovograd Region of Speechin Volodymyr Pavlovich; the Court of Appeal of the Poltava district of Batrak Volodymyr Vasilovic; Lviv's Court of Appeal of Agriculture Sluk Mikhail Grigorovich; Kharkiv's Court of Commerce Appeal Demchenk Volodymyr Alexanderovich, Sluzarev Ludmila Vasilovna; Biohazard District Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Nikolayev Hennady Mihajlovich; Vladimir Volin City Court of Wynnichuk Ivan Grigorovich; The Samar district court of Dnipropetrovské Fedorovské Olen Pantelemonovna; Shakhtar District Court of the Donetsk Region of Dmitry Paul Alexiyovich; Central City District Court of Makiyevka Donetsk Region of Makimov Mikola Timothyovich; The Red Army District Court of Žitomir district of Baladigo Vladimir Vasilovic; The Berdian District Court of Zaporozhye District of Budnikov Nina Pavlovna; Kuibyshew District Court of Zaporozhye District Andreyev Love Vasilovna; The Communist District Court of Zaporozhye, Vladimir Leonidovich; Ordjonikidzewski District Court of Zaporozhye Mazur Vasil Stepanović; Markov district court of the Luhansk district of Ryabuhu Vera Fedorovna; Sverdlov City Court of Lugansk, Litwinov Vasil Grigorovitch; The Lenin district court of Mikolyeva Dimitrova Vasil Ivanovich; The coastal district court of Odessa Babchuk Jaroslav Stepanović; Mashov District Court of Poltava District Drobotenko Yuri Borisovich; Bilopil district court of the Suma district of Yasinka Mikol Mikhajlovich, in connection with the application for resignation; The Lozov District Court of the Kharkiv region of Cherniak Viktor Vasilovich; The Kakhov District Court of the Haerson District of Zachary Valentine Volodymyrna; The Polonian District Court of the Hmelnick district of Oliynik Bogdan Vasilovich; Zvenigrad District Court of the Cherka district of Polishtuk Viktor Ivanovich; The Barbin district court of Czernigiv district of Kucherin Alexander Fedotovich; the military local court of the Žitomir garrison of Dobrovolskiy Anatolia Mikolaiovich; the Economic Court of the Dnipropetrov district of Almazov Irina Vasilovna; the Economic Court of the Lviv Region of Bilous Bogdan Alexiyovich; the Chamber of Commerce of the Chernigiv district of Solomatin Volodymyr Dmitrovic. Please support the decision-making project.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u175	No respectable colleagues, no comments, no proposals for Project Order 4306? A draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the release of judges, registration number 4306, is submitted to the vote. Please vote. [[13:07:58]] For 358 Decision taken. Now, Decree 4374, draft decree.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u176	The Committee recommends that Kuchta Alexandre Dmitrovic be released from office as judge of the local district court in Chernigiv region in connection with his resignation. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u177	Dear colleagues, if there are no warnings, the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the release of a judge, the registration number, applies to the vote. Change the vote. Please, Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u178	..and let the head of the committee hear the reason for the resignation, we need to know. We're voting for resignation, the reason is a statement. We understand when applications are made.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u179	Please. But you do have documents, Your Honor, there's a statement by the judge himself. Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u180	Dear colleagues, we have considered, yesterday at the High Council of Justice meeting, this candidature of release as we wish. Alexander Dmitryevich is seriously ill. Therefore, yesterday, the High Council of Justice met and yesterday at a meeting of the Committee. And I am asking very much to support this candidature so that it can be retired so that relatives can receive some money.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u181	Dear colleagues, the draft Supreme Council ruling, registration number 4374, on the dismissal of the judge is in favour of a vote. Please vote. [[13:09:50]] For 369 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, allow me to thank on your behalf the judges who have served their term honestly and conscientiously and today have been relieved of their duties as judges. And we made the right decision. Also, welcome judges who have been elected without a period of time to the judges and express their only wish that they work honestly and conscientiously and enjoy good health and that things will be good for them both in their families and in their homes. [[Applause]] Jaroslav Suhi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u182	Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, I have a question, perhaps to the head of the committee or to the leaders of the judiciary present. We voted on Project 4373. There's no claim, we've chosen people. I have a question to the Savior, not to the Savior, or to the people who wrote this personal matter. Spascin Oleg Anatoliyovich worked as prosecutor of the Kharkiv region and then as investigator of the Chuguyiv Interstate Prosecutor’s Office of the Kharkiv region. Why was he punished? In 98 – the prosecutor of the Kharkiv region, I read, I approached Alexander Ivanovich and, since 07.98, the investigator of the Chuguyiv Interstate Prosecutor's Office of the Kharkiv region. Or let the writer be responsible for what he wrote here. Here, too, is the signature of Mikhaylov, Chief of Personnel Management, of this Supreme Administrative Court. Did you read what it says about you, Your Honor? Have you ever been the prosecutor of Kharkiv County?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u183	Dear colleagues! I would ask that you pay attention to the proper processing of the documents. At the same time, we have made decisions on this matter. I'm asking you to pay attention to that.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u184	The judiciary prepares documents to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u185	Yes, Your Honor, we're going to consider draft regulations concerning the granting of detention and the arrest of individual judges. The draft Ordinance on the Approval of Detention and Arrest of the Judge of the Kakhov Regional Court of the Hersonian Region of Krukowski is being announced for consideration. [[Taken under guard]] Please, the head of the committee, Sergey Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u186	Dear colleagues! At a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on justice issues on April 1, 2009, the submission of the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, supported and submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine by the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, to allow for the apprehension and arrest of the judge of the local Kakhov District Court of the Hersonian Region of Krukov, Oleg Anatoliyovich. [[Taken under guard]] As a result of the review, the members of the Committee unanimously confirmed that the submission of the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine met the requirements of part one of article 220 of the Supreme Council’s Rules of Procedure, i.e. it was legal, well-founded, sufficient to indicate specific facts and legal evidence, and could be supported by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And now the Attorney General has to.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u187	Thank you, Sergey Vasilovich. I invite the Attorney General, Alexander Ivanovich Medvedjka. Please, Alexander Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u188	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! On May 29, last year, a criminal case involving Krukowski Oleg Anatoliyovich, who is the deputy head of the Kakhov Regional Court of the Hersonian Region, was dismissed by the Ministry of Internal Affairs. The trial found that on May 22, 2008, Krükovsky used alcohol with his best man during the working hours, then he arrived in the courtyard of his home with his family and at close range through the window and fired more than ten shots from the Kalashnikov machine to his relatives. And just by chance, none of the victims were killed but were injured. According to the investigation, Judge Krukovsky made the distribution of the hereditary property of the house left behind after his sister’s parents had died. On December 2, 2008, Krukovsky was charged with deliberately murdering two or more people who were not finished for reasons that were not dependent on his will because he felt that he had carried out all the necessary actions to commit the crime. Regardless of his failure to confess his guilt, Krukowski’s guilt was fully proved by the evidence gathered. On the basis of what has been said and taking into account the gravity of the crime, in which the accused judge Krukovsky, in order to prevent his attempts to escape the investigation and the trial, to hinder the establishment of the truth in a criminal case, and to continue his criminal activity to ensure the enforcement of procedural decisions in accordance with article 126 of the Constitution. Article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Judges and Articles 218 and 221 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I ask that you consider the application and agree to the detention and arrest of the deputy head of the Kakhov District Court of the Herson District of Justice of this court, Oleg Anatoliyovich, on September 2, 1960. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u189	Thank you, Alexander Ivanovich. If there are any questions, dear colleagues, come on, I see that there are questions. Five minutes is enough? Please sign up, five minutes to ask. It's a recording. Please put the names of the national deputies who are registered on the board. National MP Marouschenko, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense", please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u190	Dear Alexander Ivanovich, please tell us that in the course of the investigation, the testimony of one person is taken into account and that the testimony of others is not taken into account. That's the first one. The other one. Incriminatingly, the man fired from the machine gun, there were 10 shots fired, but no weapons found, no weapons found. So tell us how the investigation responds to the testimony of some citizens with whom it is in a bad relationship and does not respond to the testimony of other citizens. Why is it not taken into account the testimony of other citizens who say that he was elsewhere at that time?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u191	Thank you for asking. I didn't stop at all the evidence, but we'll take it into account, and then in the course of the pretrial investigation there was a whole set of evidence gathered, a set of evidence that allows us and the investigation to say that his guilt for committing this crime is proven. The machine was not really found.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u192	National Deputy Hassuk, faction of the Timoshenko Yulia.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u193	Please give the floor to the deputy Lašek.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u194	Oleg Lazko, BUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u195	Thank you, Peter Petrovich. Dear Alexander Ivanovich, I have a question of such a plan. Some time ago, we were looking at your application for arrest and arrest of Judge Hansius and you from the Supreme Council’s rostrum convinced us that this man was avoiding investigation and there was an objective basis for arresting him. Shortly thereafter, I received a package of documents from Judge Hansius. There were copies of the messages that she received from the Attorney General’s Office and on the return of these messages were the records of the prosecution’s coworkers, who indicated that Judge Ganzi had been visiting them for a long time. So I took a transcript of your performance, compared it to those copies of the messages that came in, and I saw that you weren't getting the room right, because.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u196	Please complete your point of view.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u197	Because according to the documents of the judge you're accusing, I've never seen her before my eyes, but according to the documents I received, the judge went to the investigator for questioning.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u198	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u199	That's what I'm asking. Now you say again, let's arrest people.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u200	Thank you. Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u201	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. Regarding Hansius, I reported to this room. My report was objective and fair. And now I also insist that MPs approach this issue objectively with regard to Judge Krukowski, and I assure you that there is sufficient evidence to bring criminal responsibility, detention and arrest.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u202	Volodymyr Bondarenko faction “Blanket of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u203	Volodymyr Bondarenko faction “Blanket of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear Alexander Ivanovich, I am certainly standing in those positions that the judge should be crystal clear both in professional activities and in domestic conduct, and because he was shooting there, if this is proven, it certainly does not adorn the judge. But I am interested in your position as Attorney General in such matters. Now in Kiev, I know you're giving dozens of protests on land issues, on other issues that are currently in the work of the Kiev City Public Administration. They're not satisfied, these protests, the body whose decision you're protesting. Then the case goes to trial, and the court rejects your protest. And this conveyor works very powerfully today, every, in fact, month a few of these things. Have you tried these judicial decisions on your own or through a legal institution? Isn't this actually a game where you're clean, because you've protested, and Cherniewecki, if you'll excuse me, hasn't done anything like that, because there's a court decision. And so it's through the courts.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u204	Yes, please. Well, please finish your question, drafting the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u205	and thus, the judicial authorities are actually legitimizing completely wrong decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u206	Thank you for asking. Although it does not apply to the subject of our consideration, I will answer you. Indeed, when protests are made and their rejections are rejected, we turn to the courts and the hierarchy even to the Supreme Court. And the decisions of the Supreme Court are final, which are binding. This is a valid legal procedure and there is no other procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u207	Jaroslav Dry faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u208	Dear colleagues, I have no question for you, Alexander Ivanovich. I want to turn, use a minute, to the MPs. We often reproach the General Prosecutor’s Office in this session hall for its softness, for failing to take appropriate measures to bring about the order of the law enforcement agencies, including the judicial corps. I propose to support the offer and agree. It's about the vending machine, whether or not they found it. You know, it would be very strange if a person with a higher legal education, after what he did, walked around the city with a machine, and didn't hide it. And we have one comedian, remember, millions of dollars have been put on him at all. As for Judge Hansius, I received such packages, and all the Ukrainian national deputies, she sent each of us a package to push us. I propose to put this question to a vote and to support the proposal made by the Attorney General. Let's trust professionals.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u209	Thank you. Dear colleagues, it was an offer, the question didn't ring. So, Alexander Ivanovich, time is running out. Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, the proposal for a draft ruling, we vote, the judge is, aren't we going to address him? Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the judge? Dear colleagues, as appropriate. Let's do this, the Rules require that we also ask a question if they are. If we don't, we won't bet. It's about serious things. Do you have a question? Please sign up. Three minutes, please. It's a recording. Vlasenko, faction of the Timoshenko Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u210	Sergey Vlasenko, Timoshenko Street. Pass the word to Andrey Portnow.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u211	Andrew Portnov. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u212	Andrey Portnow, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. Honorable National MPs of Ukraine, distinguished radio listeners! I would like to tell you that the procedure for the arrest of a judge in this case has nothing to do with the status of a judge. If the matter of a private citizen were to be considered today, no one would even discuss the matter. I want to tell you that the matter of this judge's arrest will be decided by the court, the local court. And the court will be able to determine whether there is a component of the crime in its actions or not. So here's the deal. To support the application of the Attorney General of Ukraine, to allow the judge to be arrested, and the matter will essentially be decided by the relevant local court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u213	National Deputy Jaroschuk, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u214	Please pass the word to Jaroslav Sukh.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u215	Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u216	Dear colleagues, I fully support the offer of a colleague of Portnova's, a lawyer. The point is that we either get involved in some sort of trial here, we have no grounds, no opportunity, no right to listen to an explanation: he fired a machine gun, or he just spit on someone, and the door got rusty. We don't have the time and the need. I would like to support the opinion, the point of view of professionals, lawyers, the Attorney General's Office. Now not so often before us is the Attorney General's Office, speaking here, calling specific things he's responsible for. Listen to this judge, I don't have any questions for him, his fate is decided by the court, he's a great lawyer, the vending machine is gone, the cartridges are made of wood, he's so full of himself, and it's all nonsense. I propose to give permission to the Attorney General for their request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u217	The Lukyanchuk People's Deputy, a faction of the Timoshenko Yulia. Dear colleagues, we've taken three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u218	Thank you. May I present Bondarenko to Volodymyr Dmitrovic?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u219	Vladimir Bondarenko, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u220	Of course, there is no doubt about it here today. I'm sure we'll give permission, and the court will deal with this judge. But Alexander Ivanovich, today answering our questions, gave no answer. I asked if I tried to review those court decisions, where your protests were actually taken off by court decisions? Have you tried the Institute of Law or, for example, some other body, such as the legal date of the conclusion that they are legitimate or not? From the point of view of the law, yes, but from the point of view of the logic of events, we can see that in Kiev, there's a fixed conveyor through the courts of completely abnormal decisions in which you participate in very clean decisions. You raised your hands, said, "I objected, and he took such a decision." And the courts can't discuss their decisions, we know that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u221	National MP Maruschenko, faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u222	Your Honor, I'd like to ask you a question. In the D.A.'s report, it means that you're not systematically in charge of the investigative and forensic expertise. Please explain why, for what reasons did you not appear to be calling the investigator?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u223	On all the investigative calls, I appeared at the right time, about which in each post I was the very investigator who pointed out that I had appeared on the call at the right time. Well, who's lying, you're making conclusions, conclusions. Well, I need someone. What I'm trying to tell you is, the only thing I didn't show up for is March 4, I was in the hospital. The investigator was informed of this. From the point of view of article 135 of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code, this is an important reason. I've been an expert. There was no forensics at the time when she was charged. As soon as I was informed of the results of the examination of my application, I went through this psychological expertise. Therefore, I believe that these questions are presented in the application so that no matter how much I appear to the investigator’s challenge, there was no such fact. I can assure you, I have some valid documents here with me, please, I can show you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u224	Thank you. Dear colleagues, time is up. At the same time, to the comments that have been made regarding the lack of answers to questions from the Attorney General, honourable colleagues, we are discussing a specific issue: the granting of consent to bring the judge to justice. All other questions are at a different time. That's why I'm putting to the vote a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the granting of arrest and arrest, being taken into custody by the judge of the local Kakhov Regional Court of the Hersonian region of Krukowski. [[Registration number 4307]] Please vote. [[13:29:01]] For 350. Decision taken. A draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the granting of arrest and arrest of the judge of the local Borispil District Court of Kyiv district of Korniyec is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 4308]] [[Taken under guard]] Reports the head of the committee of Kiwalov Sergey Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u225	Dear National Deputies! Ladies and gentlemen! At a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on justice issues on 1 April 2009, the submission by the Office of the Prosecutor-General of Ukraine was discussed, supported and submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine by the head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine for the approval of the arrest and arrest of the judge of the local District Court of Kyiv District of Korniac Mikoli Ivanovic. [[Taken under guard]] As a result of the review, the members of the committee unanimously confirmed that the submission by the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine met the requirements of article 220, part 1, of the Supreme Council’s Rules, i.e. it was legal, well - founded, sufficient, which pointed to specific facts and legal evidence, and could be supported by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u226	Thank you, Sergey Vasilovich. Have a seat. I invite you to the rostrum of the Attorney General of Ukraine, Medvedzka Alexandre Ivanovich. Please, Alexander Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u227	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! On August 31, 2007, the prosecution of the Kyiv region filed a criminal case against the judge of the Borispoli District Court of Corinius Mikli Ivanovich for making a notoriously unjust decision. The trial found that Korniac decided on 5 and 2 March 2007 without a court hearing that he satisfied the actions of the citizens of Pastukhova and Berezanski to the Borispil District Department of Land Resources on the alleged illegal registration of state-owned acts of rations by the Bortnichi Tribal Plant. In doing so, the court obliged the relevant services to cancel their registration immediately. By his illegal actions, Korniac virtually took away 559 individuals from the state’s land plots — 1,000 41 hectares located within the County’s Mountain and Happy Rural Councils. In view of the numerous violations of material and procedural law, the criminal decisions of the Korinian judge have no doubt been annulled by the Kyiv Administrative Court of Appeal. Coroner’s guilt in the crime is confirmed by an entire set of evidence. On the basis of the evidence gathered on October 17, 2007, the investigator was ordered to bring a judge of the Kornius as a charge of committing the crime provided for in article 375 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. [[Part One]] However, when the judge abused and used the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Judges, the right of inviolability, he ignored repeated calls to the investigators, and then, since August 2008, he has disappeared from the place of permanent residence, leaving his place of employment, and for the time being, his whereabouts are unknown. Under such circumstances, the Corinthian was announced in a search carried out by the appropriate operational services at this time. Taking into account that the Korniak is evading the pretrial investigation, and in accordance with article 126 of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Judges, the judge may be detained and taken into custody only under the consent given by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, under the law of Ukraine “Procurement”, article 218, 221 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, please consider the submission and allow the arrest and arrest of the judge of the Court of Justice of the Republic of Kiev, Mr. Mikoli Ivanovic, 1958. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u228	Thank you, Alexander Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, no questions? Is it? Please sign in. Five minutes. And I'm asking: only in the essence of the question under discussion. Please put the names of the people's deputies on the board. People's deputy Beales, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u229	Dear Alexander Ivanovich, one question. The indictment was made on October 17, 2007. It's been almost two years. Was it possible to make a decision earlier, to come to the Supreme Council Hall with the same application?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u230	Thank you for asking. The situation in this criminal case was in such a way that orders for a criminal offence were repeatedly challenged. It was cancelled, we appealed, we appealed, and only after the Supreme Court had considered it for such a long time.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u231	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u232	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Alexander Ivanovich, I will certainly support this submission. And by studying it, because in the committee I'm responsible for these questions, I've come to the conclusion that they're deliberately delaying the term. It's 2 years, as we've just shown, and 3 years, and 4 years. Do you not think that there is an urgent need to amend legislation to provide for, perhaps from the beginning of the limitation of trial and prosecution in courts, because there is a special procedure for such cases? And I'm not talking about the changes to the Constitution that need to be done. And in general, with regard to the charges of a criminal offence, which are now in mass numbers and do not allow the authorities of the previous investigation to investigate at all. We saw how many of these happy people blocked the roads, as long as they finally touched each other, violated the criminal case, and so on. And so did I. What is your opinion on this matter, as a person who has long been responsible for these questions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u233	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. In due course, we have drafted a bill to amend the Criminal Procedure Code concerning the prosecution of a criminal indictee, because, in fact, the courts have massively overturned their violations. And this is a bill that we have put in the Secretary of the President of our State. I know that this bill has been introduced and is under consideration by the Committees of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u234	I ask the Secretariat to immediately study the movement on this document so that we can bring it up for consideration. Valerius Bondik, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u235	Dear Alexander Ivanovich, indeed, I know your investigative experience. You were the head of the investigative department and the investigator and the city prosecutor and the attorney general. You've gone through all the stems. But as a processualist, you give me this simple answer: Is your investigator somehow reacting in the order of article 23 of the KPC, or the conditions for creating this crime? Because I know this situation, we've been approached by voters. In favor of one of the political forces, the land is distributed, and the Latifundists are sitting in this room. But not from this place, but from that land. There's so much land out there. And I've made regulations to bring the head of the Reichs administration to justice. Maybe there's a criminal group under the leadership of this court judge of the Cornias? So I'm asking you, give an answer, somehow it responds to the consequences, the motives, the conditions for creating this crime, because it's group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u236	Of course, in each criminal case, the investigator is obliged to comply with the requirements of Articles 23, 23, to determine the causes and conditions that contributed to the commission of crimes. And in all criminal matters, we do it and demand it. As far as this criminal case is concerned. So if we decide to arrest and arrest that judge, then by further investigating this criminal case, maybe we'll come up with what you said about the criminal group.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u237	And then there's the question of the People's Deputy Colosseum, the faction of the Party of the Regions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u238	Dear Chairman Vladimir Mikhailovich, I ask you to pass the word to Jaroslav Sukh.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u239	Jaroslav Suhi, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u240	Alexandre Ivanovich, state acts on earth have deprived 590 people. I want to speak to the Ukrainian National Deputies, an honorary colleague of Carmazin. These are the people who, day and night, in winter and summer on the right side of Kiev-Borispold's road, protesting, tried to get their attention on the road. But still, I'd like it to be for the stenographer. Someone's behind this affair. This scheme is understood by the fact that one or two go to court, and then whether the labour force suffers if the industrial enterprise goes at no cost. Someone stands for this judge. We can see who's behind it now that we're voting on your proposal for permission. Would his arrest contribute to the full investigation and identification of who was giving the order, and who paid him the money for making such a decision?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u241	Thank you. That's why we're asking the question that the actual investigation was initially blocked, it wasn't investigated. And now we can't move on this criminal case, because there is no primary subject of this process, the Korinian. If he's arrested and arrested, I think we're on the trail, operationally, we can figure out who's behind this judge, who you say pays the money.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u242	Alexander Ivanovich, thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues! Do you need to talk to the judge? Aah!? Sorry, they're looking for him. I thought he was here all of a sudden. It's coming off. Dear colleagues! The draft ruling of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the granting of arrest and arrest, by the judge of the local District Court of Kyiv district of Kornius, is based on the vote. [[Taken under guard]] I'm reminding you again of registration number 4308. Please vote. [[13:40:00]] For 412 Decision taken. And I'm taking this opportunity to refer to the judges we just appointed. Dear colleagues! You've seen what's going on and what kind of decision we're making, I'm sure we won't have any more opportunities to deal with these issues. I think we all have to make the right conclusions here. Let us turn to the question of the appointment of a member of the High Qualifying Commission of Judges. This question is addressed by the head of the Committee on Justice’s subcommittee, Vadim Vasilovich Kolisnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u243	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! In accordance with the Ukrainian Act on Sudokustrej, the Supreme Council of Ukraine appoints two members of the Higher Qualification Commission of Judges of Ukraine, not of the National Deputies, but in a mandatory manner with higher legal education. As of today, two members of the parliamentary quota committee are vacant. The higher-skilled commission of judges of Ukraine - an important body in the system of the judiciary - is responsible for the selection of the audit and the recommendation of candidates for judges takes decisions on the disciplinary responsibility of judges. In view of the fact that the number of members of the commission is defined by law in 13 members rather than by a quorum in 11 members, these two vacancies should be filled without delay. I note that on February 19, this year, the Supreme Council of Ukraine had already considered these issues. All seven candidates were then rejected. This time, nearly all factions and coalitions and oppositions were introduced by the national MPs: Labedjuka Leonida Andriyovich, Starunya Sergija Volodymyrovich, Andreje's Olena Mikolayovna, Vuka Pavel Viacheslavovich, Neciporenka Aleksandra Lavrovič, Shumila Mikoli Yegorovich. The Committee on Justice reviewed all the nominations, verified compliance with the requirements laid down by law and endorsed the conclusion of each candidature. Draft rulings, committee conclusions along with information on each candidate are given to you. With regard to the voting procedure. It's already been tested for us on February 19. This is the rule of the Rules in article 28, and first, each candidature does not necessarily have to have 226 or 400 votes. Out of the six candidates available, the two candidates who will receive more votes than others can be put to a successful vote. If each of them separates 226 votes, both members of the commission will be considered elected. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I ask you to put the candidates available first for the signal vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u244	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have agreed and made such a decision that, given that two vacancies and six are candidates, we will put on a rating vote if, even in the process of voting, a candidate or another vote of 400 votes, it will not mean that it has already been appointed. Then the two candidates who have won the most votes will be put to the vote for appointment. If one of these candidates is supported and the other is not, then we will vote on the next candidate, or third place, such a proposal. No warning? Please, Vladimir Stretovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u245	Volodymyr Stretovic, HDS party. The argument can be made why we put forward these applications because the draft regulation is registered on my behalf. How do I have the right to present my candidature, Vladimir Mikhailovich? Because the committee did not foresee such a procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u246	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u247	Dear colleagues, in accordance with the current Rules, you should have made these proposals to the Committee on Justice and we would have considered them. But you didn't make it in time, and now we can't look at it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u248	Please, Vladimir Stretovic. Please, Stretovich's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u249	I refute the rapporteur's words because my proposals were introduced on February 23, 2009, by a fully legislative procedure. So you don't have to say black and white, it's all done properly.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u250	Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u251	I'm asking you, can I stand up to the Ukrainian people's defenses to improve the composition of a qualified panel of judges?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u252	Your proposal does not meet the requirements of the Rules because your proposals have not been considered in the Committee. That's the first one. It's different. This issue is not being considered here, but is dealt with in accordance with the Rules of the Committee on Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u253	Dear colleagues, this is about a specific candidate that has been considered. Yeah, I'll explain. Dear colleagues, I explain. The thing is, we're going back to this problem again. At that time, the honourable colleague, when the Supreme Council of Ukraine, after conducting the vote, did not support any nominations to the National Deputies, Committees and factions, was invited to re- table proposals, six candidates were put forward, all of whom were submitted, they were considered by the Committee. You have not submitted these nominations again and again, and these are all considered rejected, which were the subject of the First Review of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Well, please, once again, Volodymyr Stretovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u254	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, this candidate was introduced to me after the first round, when the first five candidates did not get the necessary number, and then I thought of how I could do so. On February 23rd, and the review was literally a week before, on the 4, on the 14th we were looking at, and this was on the committee. I don't understand why she's not voting right now. What does the committee do? Maybe Sergey Vasilovich Kiwalov loves me so much that my candidacy is there? But I will require a special investigation if this is not taken into account. Why does my legislative initiative not count? Look, please, when the last one was listened to once, and when my decision was made on February 23rd. Please don't turn the Supreme Council into a circus, even though it's round. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u255	Dear colleagues, I think we should do it this way. What we will now be tasked with finding out when appropriate suggestions have been made. If the committee hadn't considered it, why didn't he consider it? If it was late or this candidate was rejected and not reinstated, then there would be another matter. I ask that the apparatus now prepare appropriate proposals on this subject and study this question. I just talked to Tepluk Mikhail Alexiyovich and asked him to study the problem. In this regard, reports Vadim Koleschenko. He is authorized to speak from the committee. So, your honorary colleagues, coming from the realities that I've come up with. Let's just say that we're going to run the rating vote now. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I want to say it again. We've got the same thing as in the story that we're stuck with. I'd write out all the names we'd vote on. May I have your attention, please? Colleagues and surnames were named, bills 4103 – Lebedjuk, 4103-1 – Starun, 4103-2 – Andreiev, 4103-3 – Vuk, 4103-4 – Nechiporenko, 4103-5 – Šumilo, 4103-6 – Petrashka. All candidatures are. [[B in m in s a l in]] What? Let's do it this way. Right before the vote, if the author insists on a draft decision, one minute, let him argue his position. Is there no objection? And I ask, my fellow Members, to continue the morning session until the conclusion of the debate on this matter. Please now draft Decree 4103, which refers to the proposals to appoint Lebeduk Leonida Andrijaovich as a member of the Supreme Qualification Commission of Judges of Ukraine. Please, Volodymyr Stretovich, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u256	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I believe that the quota of the Supreme Council of Ukraine should be filled in on the principle of new principles. The candidate for appointment to the mentioned body of the system of the judiciary, in addition to the high level of expertise and moral and occupational quality, should be in the family relationship with the structural units of Parliament, which will ensure its close link and personal responsibility, and ultimately the active parliamentary control over the formation and functioning of the judiciary of all levels. This position is proposed by Lebeduk Leonid Andriyovich, who has high professional qualifications, a balanced experience of practical and legal work, a legislative position, a weighted position, and will be able to represent the Supreme Council in the Higher Qualifying Commission. For 20 years Leonid Andriyovich worked in the prosecutor's office, went from the prosecutor's office to the investigation of the particularly important cases of the Attorney-General's Office, and then worked as an assistant to the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. Since 2004, he has worked with the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption as a Deputy Secretary of State. Please be supportive. Although I know very well the words of the Bible: “You shall not brand a pearl in front of the pigs.” Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m0.u257	Dear colleagues, come on, I want to ask you again, we have this very responsible week, you know, we're not going to take the image of each other, I'm asking you. And, dear fellows, we have agreed, we have a rating vote. A draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine 4103 on the appointment of Lebeduk as a member of the Supreme Qualification Commission of judges of Ukraine is submitted to the vote. Once again, 4103 is the registration number of the draft regulation, please. [[13:51:36]] For 116 Now draft decree, registration number 4103-1, on the appointment of Old Man Sergey Volodymyrovich as a member of the Qualification Commission of Judges. This is a proposal from the national MP Maroustenka. Are you going to speak on this? Oh, no? I put to the vote a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the appointment of Old Man Sergey Volodymyrovich as a member of the Qualifying Commission of Judges of Ukraine, registration number 4103-1. [[13:52:31]] For-64 Now draft decision No. 4103-2 on the appointment of Andrew's Helen Mikolayovna as a member of the Supreme Qualification Commission of Judges of Ukraine. Igor Alekseus introduced it. Are you going to speak on this? No, it's not. That's why I'm putting to the vote the draft Decree, registration number 4103-3, on the appointment of Andrew's Helen Mikolayivna as a member of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine. Please vote. [[13:53:24]] For 375 Now draft Decree, registration number 4103-3, on the appointment of Wolf Paul Viacheslavovich as a member of the Supreme Qualification Commission of Judges of Ukraine. Once again, registration number 4103-3. The authors are Kiwalov, Bondik. Will you be speaking on this? I am voting on the draft Decree 4103-3 on the appointment of the Wolf Paul Viacheslavovich as a member of the High Qualifications Commission of Judges. Please vote. [[13:54:20]] For 275 Now draft Decree 4103-4 on the appointment of a member of the High Qualifying Commission of Nechiporenko Alexandre Lavrovitch. The authors are Ukrainian national deputy Shustik. Are you going to perform? [[Don't ……]] So I'm putting to the vote the draft Order on the appointment of Neciporenko Alexandre Lavrovitch as a member of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine. [[13:55:13]] For 236 On the turn of the draft Decision on the appointment of Shumila Mikoli Yegorovich as a member of the Supreme Qualification Commission of Judges of Ukraine. Semerak, a Ukrainian national deputy, made a draft decision. No need to talk? The draft Decision on the appointment of Schumila Mikoli Yegorovich as a member of the Supreme Qualification Commission of Judges of Ukraine is put to the vote. [[13:56:06]] For 177 And, dear fellows, we've come to a conflict here: I've been put up with a draft Order on the appointment of Petrashka. Just a minute. However, the committee claims that it did not consider the application, and the draft decree was introduced on 15 April. So we don't put it to a vote. I would ask you not to deny it. Thus, the honourable colleagues, according to the 375 votes cast, were nominated by Andreyev, yes, 275 votes by Wolf, 236 votes by Neciporenko, 177 votes by Shumilo, 116 votes by Lebeduk and 64 votes by Starun. I'm going to put the motions to the vote now. We'll finish the question now, then. This is going to be a one-vote process. It wasn't. Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the appointment of Andrew Olga Mikolayovna as a member of the Supreme Qualification Commission of judges of Ukraine. [[Registration number 4103-2]] [[13:57:57]] For 227 And the following draft Decision on the appointment of the Wolf Paul Viacheslavovich as a member of the Supreme Qualification Commission of Judges of Ukraine. Please vote. [[13:58:41]] For 234 Decision taken. So, dear fellows, we are. Well, we have two vacancies, but we can't vote anymore. Dear colleagues, the rating vote is over, we can't continue to vote, because we're going to have three candidates then, you know? Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I would like to say that we have elected members of the Higher Qualifying Commission of Andrei and Vuk. Decision taken. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Break until 4:00. I would ask during a recess, if necessary, to hold a committee meeting in order to make decisions on the issues that needed to be taken. We'll continue work at 4:00 p.m. in plenary mode.
