ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, guests of the Supreme Council! Please prepare for registration. Please include the “Council” system. [[10:01:38]] There are 413 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The morning plenary session is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of our colleague Condratuk Olena Constantinena. Please welcome her birthday, wish her all kinds of good times. [[Applause]] A brief summary of the plenary work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from 3 to 6 November. During this time, there were six plenary sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. 34 questions in the agenda have been considered. As a result of the review, 13 laws and 4 decrees were passed, 5 bills and 1 draft decree were adopted on a basis, 1 bill was returned to the Committee for Re-reading, 10 bills were rejected. 138 parliamentary inquiries have been announced. Dear colleagues, today, Tuesday, according to article 25 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we have 30 minutes to speak on behalf of authorized factions. I ask you to sign the factions for statements and statements. Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! Let me focus your attention on a few problems. First, I'm going to start with politics and no unnecessary, so to speak, modesty, and big politics. On these days, November 15 was 70 years old from the time the territory of Western Ukraine became a territory of the Ukrainian State. Unfortunately, our nation, starting with the highest factors, including Parliament, has completely ignored this very important date. For over a year, I was working with a professional committee headed by my colleague, Yavorowski, to take the appropriate decision. A recent decree was made by a colleague of Doves to celebrate this festival at the national level. As a wall of deafness, so was the day of the conspiracy of purpose, which ended in Petlura’s selling to Ukraine, but it was the autumn of 1939, which led to the fact that western Ukraine became a Ukrainian land. I would like to remind those who are yelling of the words of a well-known English actor who spoke of it, and it's possible and useful to condemn the Ribbentrop Molotov Pact, but if the Germans were taking foreign territory, Stalin was returning his territory, Stalin was returning the territory of the Ukrainian state. Secondly, you know, I have the impression that soon, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" will introduce a bill proposing to denounce the decision of the session of the Supreme Council of the U.S.R.R. since 15 November 39 on the inclusion of Western Ukraine in the territory of the Ukrainian State. I see you're ready for this. The following economically sinister issues. The first question is, for a year now, we've been looking at the problem, and we're finally going to have to look at Bill 3459 today, and it's about facilitating the situation for those who have loans in banks. [[author of the Simonenko Bill]] For the first six months of this situation, the Committee of Terjehochin “began to vote” and for the next six months the Committee of the Azarov absolutely does not want to deal with this problem. We're talking about banning banks from taking people's property until we get out of the crisis. It's about prohibiting the transfer of the dollar in a bracelet to today, not the day that this deal was signed, and it's about borrowing, and it's about 3 percent of the loan, 3-5 percent of the loan to the national producer. Two words I'd like to ask, colleagues, that we will probably be looking at the President's veto on Thursday, not a bill that we voted on more than 300 votes for a temporary moratorium on medicine. You know, ten days in five days, the pharmacies did. You and I have passed the law, unfortunately, the President has vetoed it. I hope for your support. And to conclude, also on politics. I will read one document, and you can conclude: “The Central Electoral Commission. The prosecutor of the Cherka district came from the Ukrainian Security Service in the Cherkas region with information about the distribution of printed materials, the pre-election campaigning of a candidate for the post of President of Ukraine Simonenka by Communist party activists in places of mass population in Cherkas, and some of these materials did not contain source material. Taking into account that the District Commission has not yet been created, please consider.” So here's one conclusion: Jezów, Berijah, and Viszynski are taken together. Who entrusted the Security Service with electoral processes? Absolutely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u3	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Baranov Valeriy Alexiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u4	Respectable voters, colleagues, it is sad that since 91st, Ukraine has not found an effective leader and political force capable of changing the square wheels of our body. The existing system of management of human resources and tax policies, destruction of the national economy and business, self-government and centralization of the authority of resources, the future of our country, does not exist. It is unfortunate that most presidential candidates do not understand this and build their programme, as usual, on deception, promises to divide and subtract. The main scourge of the Ukrainian government in recent generations is the devastating populism. Humans are being deceived by unsurpassed promises and are destroying the economy and the public sector. Surprisingly, we still haven't determined what we're building. There is no goal, so it is impossible to achieve it. I mean, part of Parliament continues to build communism, and it sets up a moratorium, sets prices, gives benefits. Another part is trying to build a market economy and a European-type State. It's a swan, a cancer and a hammer, and we have the result on our face. Society stands before choice again. Of the two forces that have heroically fought the consequences and have not solved the causes, we need to choose one again, which has not shimmered with the results of their work and is very sad. We need to hold hearings on this issue and determine where we're going and how we're going to change our square wheels round. This decision should be recorded by the relevant declaration. I realize that it is fashionable to promise benefits before the elections, to make promises, to make contributions, to travel free of charge, and much more, but practice has shown that we only have a free spring. Let me give you an example of strong populism and its outcome. Bills of different moratoriums have become abundant today. The last is a decision on a moratorium on the cost of medicines. It would seem that it is a good thing to protect our citizens. But if it's stupid to record any price, either the enterprises go out of business or the goods go out of business. Remember how a few years ago our Parliament decided on a moratorium on public tariffs. This led to the bankruptcy of utilities and the increase in the cost of tariffs. I am not saying that prices must be uncontrollable; it is wrong to make a price through a moratorium; it is because of the level of profitability of these enterprises. And the problem today is not in prices and tariffs, the problem is in income. This is the field on which both the Government and the opposition must manifest themselves. I am authorized to represent the Ukrainian City Association in the Supreme Council and the position of our faction coincides with the prospect of local self-government, the decentralization of power and finance. Today, by imperial means, I passed my law, which reads: “The amount of love for self-government back is proportional to the square of time left before the elections.” On the contrary, history says that once the winner comes to power, he does his best to destroy self-government. And we do not understand that all problems are being raised and resolved on the ground, and it is the authority on the ground that has not a penny to solve these problems. Our self-governance is being tried again. Remember the Act banning gambling has deprived the local government of 600 million. It's the right law, but where the money for compensation will come from. Today, there is a new draft law on the abolition of the market assembly. That is, today it is necessary to enjoy those who are trading, but the lack of this money in the local government budget will lead to the purchaser’s roofs! The country needs a major reform of local self-government and that is the position of our faction. We insist that legislation on the election of members of local councils be amended. This party system is corrupt, it has destroyed local self-government and does not allow people to live and work on the ground today. But remember how this bill was voted on, both megafractions voted against, thus showing that they say one thing and do another. And the last. We have adopted a reform of housing and utilities. On first reading, you and I have adopted the Housing Code, and we still have about a dozen laws that will allow us to implement a programme of housing and utility reform that tortures and tortures people for many years. But every week we plan an agenda where laws are completely unrelated. Let's take one problem, for example, housing and utilities, spend a week on it, take the whole set of laws, and this problem will begin to be solved. Then we take another issue and we review the entire list of laws. Otherwise, we get a brownie move, and all we get out is flu, paedophilia, cannibalism, and everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u5	Herman Hanna Mikolayevna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u6	In these days, the Speakers of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko have been instructed to say that the Act on raising the social standards that we have approved here means nothing, and it raises, he says, the pension of only 60 copies, and for the Secretary of the President by 900 dollars. I'm saying to all of Ukraine that this is an absolute lie. You and I have accepted only the minimum pensions and minimum wage for the budget. So every person who has received a minimum pension has the right to receive a 75 dollar pension on 1 November of this year, and anyone who has received a minimum wage in the budget area has the right to receive a 400 dollar salary. That is true and that is the law we have passed, and every person who has not already counted this money in November has the right to demand it from the government and has the right to bring it to justice. You know the cynicism of this power, which used to call black white and vice versa, there are no boundaries. But the greatest danger for that woman who is falling into even greater power, to absolute power, is that they are on their way to their own personal goals through both the old man and the child. What happened in Ukraine with the "Europe" event was absolutely unprecedented when we declared an epidemic in the country when we closed schools and kindergartens, and yesterday we accepted children from 13 countries of the world to Ukraine, and at the peak of the epidemic, we will be conducting the "Europe" baby under the patronage of Timoshenko, because it is another reason for her pyar. Let us ask ourselves, Is there an epidemic in Ukraine? If there's an epidemic in Ukraine, then we have to avoid mass child intervention involving children from abroad, so we don't have to spread the infection. If there is no epidemic and children from 13 countries came in yesterday, why didn’t we open schools and kindergartens yesterday? And because, dear colleagues, the government saves in this way, the government shuts down schools and kindergartens and saves gas because Timoshenko has already promised the IMF that after the presidential elections it will raise gas prices for the population. She did it completely cynically. And now the schools have closed their kindergartens to save some economy until the new year, to take another stretch, because it has already admitted that Ukraine has long lived for the money of the IMF, Ukraine has long been bankrupt, it has not earned anything. Yesterday a colleague from BUTU said directly on the air of one of the TV channels: well, Yanukovich was fine, but there was no crisis. Yes, Yanukovic was Prime Minister twice and twice pulled Ukraine out of the crisis. Timoshenko was Prime Minister twice, and every time she brought Ukraine into a deep crisis. You remember, in 2005, it was gasoline, sugar, and other crises, now new crises. But worst of all, she did what she did to bring Ukraine into such debt that many generations of our children will have to pay these debts. We're told, you know, you're the same as what you're different from Timoshenko Block: you have businessmen, and there's businessmen. And I'll tell you, the business people in the region are building factories, paying taxes and giving jobs. Businessmen from BUIT make money on a human mountain, epidemics, and manhunts, killing people on their own property. And the members of this coalition, who are leading the law enforcement agencies today, instead of catching Lozinski and bringing him to trial for hunting people, are looking for compromises against the most popular politicians in Ukraine. And they fake those compromises. Not enough, they're still there.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u7	Finish it, Anna Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u8	They also bring us those compromises and offer them to sell us for large sums of money. That's what this cynical power does, that's why this power that is now, is never allowed to rule the country again.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u9	Krzemyakin Andriy Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u10	Dear voters, colleagues! I'm going to start my statement by saying a sad fact. Following yesterday's Conciliation Council, there was a conviction that the “All went to the front” table could already be hung in Parliament. But not at the front of the fight against the flu or crisis, or for the welfare of the Ukrainian population, but at the election front, at the front of the fight against the Ukrainian people. And above all, the fight against pensioners and the underprotected population. Yesterday's demands for the Party of the Regions to consider the issues at this plenary week were clearly demonstrated: The Party of the Regions withdrew any responsibility for what was going on in the state and became fully self-piar, electoral campaign and openly populist demagogies. A party of regions is no matter how the country struggles with the flu, how the budget is filled, how pensions are paid, wages paid to teachers, and doctors. In words, everyone is concerned about the people and their welfare, and in fact, parliament is turning into a free stand for voter slogans and attempts to destabilize the situation in the country. Even the 2010 review of Ukraine’s State Budget is trying to turn you into essentially a political instrument of the electoral campaign. You've been asking him to look at it this week. Dear colleagues, more than a thousand proposals have been made to the budget committee, and their price is an additional cost of 157 billion dollars. If you do not care how the country lives next year, allow others to work hard to make the State Budget a real, active financial document of the State. The next question that our opponents hope to gain voter support is the introduction to the Social Standards Act. The more cynical the real intentions of individual politicians, the more intense the slogans and performances. In adopting this law, the Party of Regions is trying to organize a social explosion in the state under millions of pensioners' concerns, hiding a clear cynical and horrifying plan -- to trigger an unprecedented inflation explosion in Ukraine. For 60 copies, by raising pensions for the common people, you have raised pensions for yourself by a thousand dollars. With regard to wage raises, should we ask the leaders of the Party of Regions faction, which has almost 80 percent of the owners of the country's huge enterprises, whether they have raised wages, other social benefits and assistance to their employees after the Act on raising social standards was signed by Mr. Yushchenko? If anyone thinks they've promoted, I want to inform you, no employee of private enterprises owned by members of the Party of the Regions has been paid more. This leads to only one conclusion. All your loud statements of concern are electoral farce and pear. In each speech, there is a double, or triple, morality in each word of representatives. The question is, "Why don't you ask our current President Yushchenk to sign the law on the allocation of 1 billion dollars to the Ministry of Health to fight the flu?" The answer here is simple and obvious – a party of regions with President Yushchenk joined together in an inexorable rage against Timoshenko and the government. You don't have to be an analyst to see that President Yushchenko is signing everything that's on the electoral program of the Party of Regions without warning. At the same time, to allocate funds to combat an epidemic that has already claimed hundreds of lives imposed by the veto. At the same time, a law that threatens to completely balance the financial stability of Ukraine, signed without reservation. By his decree, Yushchenko stopped the Kabmina Ordinance on the provision of necessary medical equipment. What is it that is not the genocide of the Ukrainian people in a covenant with their political mirage? But that, too, turns out to be a small one. A party of regions joined with the President to overthrow the government and tear down the socio-economic situation the day before the elections. Once intransigent enemies are now united into a single anti - Tymoshenko front. But all your efforts and struggles are not directed against the government, you are engaged in a fierce battle against the entire Ukrainian people. In conclusion, I want to draw the attention of all my colleagues. Parliament is not a place to wage a war against its own people, a war where you want to hide Yanukovic and Yushchenko's connection in a sly struggle for power and self-preservation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u11	Martinenko Mikola Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u12	Thank you. Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! Ukraine has been living in an economic crisis for a year that has plagued the world. The leading domestic economists analyzed the gains, calculations, and tasks facing our nation. So, what is done in the economy, and what can the authorities write down for themselves? The country's financial collapse has been preceded; the first phase of the recapitalisation of troubled banks has been completed; successful negotiations with the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank have been successful; Ukraine has received more than $10 billion of the world's most recent loans; it has strengthened the trust of foreign investors and facilitated the refinancing of short-term external debt; high levels of fiscal discipline and the full amount of social payout have been preserved; internal funding sources have not been allowed to collapse; and the deficit of the balance of payments has been gradually reduced despite significant losses in external markets. All of this has to do with the government’s work. It's worth criticizing, but it's the Cabinet of Ministers that holds the Ukrainian economy in motion during a period of double crisis: economic and electoral. And yet we don't know which one is more negative. Now for the loss. Perhaps the worst result here was the loss of confidence and citizens, and the loss of business to the state, especially to the national currency after Nazbank’s unsuspecting politics with the exchange rate of bracelets. With the cloudy account rate, the real economy was deprived of credit. Privatization plans were not implemented. This has had a negative impact both on the financing of the State budget and on the involvement of investments that could be a source of development and employment. There are prerequisites for closing businesses, increasing unemployment, and spreading inflation through the adoption of an unrealistic Act on Social Standards. It threatens the collapse of our financial system. The IMF stopped lending to Ukraine, the world sees us as an unpredictable and unstable state. I don't want to criticize anyone here. I don't want to remind you, but the National Bank is responsible for the fee, and Parliament can't take his head off without the President; that the opposition has deliberately taken an irresponsible decision to raise the minimum wage, which will only make it worse for the people and the economy in general; that we won't allow ourselves to fight for the power to act on the old principle: we will fight for peace so that the stone will not remain on the stone. Our country is in too difficult a position to have politicians continue to fight after the elections. A common effort by all political forces is needed to keep Ukraine on the brink of a chasm. Political consolidation is non-alternative, whoever becomes president. And joint actions to get the state out of the crisis are also non-alternative. Other countries have long gone this way. After the election, we too will have to impose a three - year moratorium on all issues that divide society and work. The economic priority for the new government should be to restore confidence in macroeconomic policies in the country, to restore trust between investors and entrepreneurs. This requires a complex anti-crisis strategy. I'll just name some economic tasks for the post-election period. Providing purchasing power to the national currency, creating attractive conditions for foreign investors. Privatization processes need to be maintained. Go from fiscal orientation of the tax system to incentive. People expect the authorities to finally act as the only one. The need for a government of national agreement is professional and effective. Immediately after the election, the new president, the head of the Supreme Council, and the leaders of all, without exception, the factions, must form it in a matter of days. You cannot continue the tactics of the burned-out earth. This land is Ukraine, and we all live here together. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u13	Thank you, Mikolo Volodymyrovich. The people’s deputy, Vladimir Aleksandrovich, has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u14	Vladimir Yavorowski. I want to speak to Mr. Martinyuk about his speech. I want to say, Adam Ivanovich, that the decision was not made by Vladimir Yavorowski himself, which was a collegiate decision of the committee. First. And secondly, Adam Ivanovich, if only September 39, when East and West Ukraine were united, we would have had a completely different conversation with you. But I'm saying it like an easter, from South, actually, Ukraine. Because I voted like that, I'll explain. Had it not been for the main arrests of the Ukrainian intelligence in Galicina since 39, if the entire world of Galicina had not been virtually destroyed, and if the Germans had entered Galicina and opened prisons, there would have been no flow of human blood, then we could have this holiday, this “golden September” as it was once called could have been celebrated. To celebrate it today, I'm sure, immoral.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u15	Dear colleagues, I have a few decisions to inform you about yesterday's Conciliation Council of Ukraine, the Conciliation Board of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. As we considered yesterday the issues proposed for the current week at the Conciliation Council, we adopted two decisions concerning the fixing of time for consideration. The first is the consideration of the socio-economic development programme and the 2010 State Budget project, which should be considered first on Thursday, regardless of the progress of other issues. The second issue is, on the same day, the consideration of two draft laws amending the Law on the State Register of Voters and on the Elections of the President of Ukraine, which are to be considered immediately after the completion of the consideration of the appointment and release of judges. In order that we don't have any questions about going from one question to another, I now want to define the session room from these issues so that we don't go back to when these issues will be taken up. I am voting on the proposal put forward by the Conciliation Council of Ukraine to consider on Thursday the first issue of Ukraine's Social and Economic Development Programme for the following year. And the second question is the 2010 draft of Ukraine's State Budget. This is a proposal from the Conciliation Council. Please identify yourself. [[10:32:24]] For 316 Decision taken. So on Thursday, we'll start with these two questions. After considering the appointment and release of judges, which will begin at 12 o'clock in 30 minutes, it is proposed to consider two draft laws, which I have called, to amend the Law on the State Register of Voters and to amend the Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine. I'm voting on this proposal from the Conciliation Council, please identify yourself. [[10:33:05]] For 317 Decision taken. So after the question of appointment and election of judges is completed, we're going to consider two issues that will apply to the election campaign. And the third position. I am information, my fellow Members, that on 9 November was introduced the proposal of 150 Ukrainian national deputies to withdraw from the post of First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In line with part four, article 76 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the day session the question of calling off the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:34:01]] For 177 The decision is not taken. The question is not included in the agenda of the day session. By factions, please show me. Region Party 0, Timoshenko Yulia Block - 148, Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense - 29, Communists - 0, Litvina Block - 0, non-fractional - 0. Please, in the order of today's work, Anatoly Sergiyovich Matviyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u16	Ukrainian Republican Party "The Council", "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" Block. Alexander Volodymyrovich, I ask you to comment on the following information. Today, on the faction, we are told that Litwin will not preside over the Supreme Council and the legal basis for such behaviour is his statement during the electoral campaign. I would like you to inform us, the deputies and all the voters whether this is the case, whether it is an application for leave, and that Lithuania will not preside over the President's election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u17	Thank you, Anatoly Sergiyovich. I inform you that yesterday on the Conciliation Council Vladimir Mikhailovich made a statement that before the election campaign was completed he would not preside over plenary meetings and during plenary sessions he would be on vacation. I didn't see the application myself. Let us turn to the issues set out in the schedule for today. The issue of the elimination of disagreements in the text adopted on 5 November 2009 of the Act on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on the powers of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, the features of constitutional appeals and the non-abuse of the right to constitutional submission is discussed. Dear colleagues, you have a proposal made by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which has been processed by the General Legal Office and the Legal Committee of Parliament. Is there a question of editorial clarification that we have adopted? No questions? Can we vote? Ah, there's a question. Please, Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u18	Thank you, Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! We, on the one hand, act in accordance with the Rules that we make these differences, this is provided for in the Rules. But I think we're already taking advantage of this situation, and we're almost every plenary week starting with a similar procedure. So I'd like to ask, let's go to the heads of the committees, those who are preparing bills for second reading, that they will listen more to the observations of the legal department, so that all of these problems will be settled by the time the bill comes into the session room. If they can't count on the session room, when the committee rapporteur reports on the bill in the second reading, he may, after all, refer to whether or not the other proposals of the legal office to let us address the issue in the course of our review. Because we spend too much time doing too much work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u19	I support you, Adam Ivanovich, in this and I think the committee heads will listen. In fact, please Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u20	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to draw your attention, and yours, Your Honor Alexander Volodymyrovich, to what it is. What we're now proposing is actually re-reading the bill, it's not just any disagreement, I want to give you examples. Article 43 proposes to be written in such an editorial, and the article changes completely. Part two of article 45 reads: “The Constitutional Court rules by approval.” Where every word matters. And to look at it as simply as if it were a text of disagreements -- absolutely impossible, absolutely impossible. And I agree, and I have repeatedly said that this low quality, not counting expert conclusions, absolute non-response to what is written by the General Legal Office, causes us to print a marriage. This law cannot be viewed as such. It's actually re-reading the second reading, where there should be suggestions on these proposals, a.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u21	I see. Dear colleagues, I invite you to the rostrum of Vladimir Pillipovich. Because the National Deputy has raised doubts about the editorial details proposed by the Professional Committee and the Chief Legal Authority. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u22	Thank you. On 5 November 2009, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the Act “On making changes to certain laws” which aims to improve the legal regulation of the activities of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine by making appropriate changes to the laws of Ukraine on the Constitutional Court and on the Cabinet of Ministers. An analysis of the text of the adopted law indicates that the individual positions of the law contain internal disagreements and that the terminology of the Constitution of Ukraine was not respected. Therefore, taking into account the initiative of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy and in accordance with article 131 of the Supreme Council’s Rules, there is a proposal to eliminate inconsistencies and inaccuracies in the individual provisions of the adopted law. Alexander Volodymyrovich, I'd like to make every motion for a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u23	Dear colleagues, is there a need for each clarification to be identified separately? Can we be determined as a whole on the basis of a proposal made by the Head of the Supreme Council on the basis of the work of the Committee on Legal Policy and the General Legal Administration? Is there a need for everyone?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u24	None.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u25	He's not changing.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u26	I'm voting on a procedural proposal. Can we now determine the editorial proposed by the Head of the Supreme Council on the basis of the submission of the Chief Legal Authority and the Professional Committee? Please be sure. [[10:41:07]] For 321 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, you are being considered by the proposal to remove disagreements in the law that we have adopted, which provides for the clarification of individual positions. [[Registration number 4817]] Please identify the proposals made by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[10:41:44]] For 331 Decision taken. The clarifications have been made. Thank you, Vladimir Philipovich. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[against the spread of child pornography]] According to Vladimir Romanovich Moysik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u27	Vladimir Moisik, MP “For Ukraine!” Dear Chairman! Dear fellow national MPs! The Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted on 22 October this year in the first draft of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments and Supplements to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine. [[against the spread of child pornography]] I will point out that almost all of Ukraine’s more than 400 national deputies supported the bill. Taking into account the considerable social resonance of this bill, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has entrusted our committee with preparing this bill for consideration in the second reading of the simplified procedure, i.e. in 7 days, and at the same time with this bill to submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for consideration in the second reading a draft of the law of our colleague Hennadia Moskal on a similar subject. It should be noted that during the committee's discussion, a table of amendments to the bill by Hennadi Moskal was sent to the National Expert Commission on the Protection of Social Morals. The National Commission, as well as our committee, gave priority to Bill No. 3271 under the authorship of colleagues from Ugandan, Ephraim, Ukolova and others and decided to recommend it to the second reading. If this bill is approved, in accordance with article 95 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, Bill 1340 under the authority of colleague Hennadia Moskal is to be withdrawn. Now, about this bill that I'm reporting. It's got 10 amendments, 9 of them included either completely or editorially. Then, when the amendment deadline was over, two more times our colleagues offered their proposals, which the committee also considered. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, I ask you to put to the vote either the law or every single amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u28	Thank you, Volodymyr Romanovich. Dear colleagues, we have made few amendments to this law. Do the Ukrainian National Deputies, whose amendments are taken into account in an editorial way, object to the editorial proposed by the profile committee? Those who made the amendments are included in a different edition. Do you object to this? No, there isn't. Then there's another question. To what amendments does the committee recommend to take into account are warnings? Please, Kseniya Mikhailna Leapina.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u29	Lapina, group “For Ukraine! ” I'd like to draw your attention to amendment number three of the Swedish People's Deputy. It is very large and has a second part that changes the Law on Telecommunications. The second paragraph of this section complements article 39 of the Law on Telecommunications. This complement, venerable, has nothing to do with pornography. The point is that operators, telecommunications providers restrict their subscribers' access to distribution resources, listen to illegal content information messages, not a word about pornography. I'm sorry, we already had a court order against criticizing the government. Is that what you want to achieve? I insist, or we reject this amendment, or we make it clear that it's not some kind of informational filling illegal, but it's child pornography. What if, in fact, the distribution of the baby is carried out.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u30	Please turn on the microphone, People's Deputy Lapina.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u31	If there is, indeed, distribution through the appropriate resource of child pornography, not illegal content information, then there should be a restriction. Either we reject this amendment, or we vote in a different edition with a clear formulation of child pornography.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u32	Dear Kseniya Mikhailovna, rejecting this amendment is unnecessary, but the next item is that the list of such data and the order of their storage is established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine according to the law. But of course in the formulation of this part you're talking about, it was about the data that contains the circulation of the product.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u33	Well that's the content of the law, that's the ideology of it, that can't be anything else.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u34	Dear colleagues, you have heard the argument of Kseniya Mikhailovna Lápina, you have heard the reasoning of the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u35	Alexander Volodymyrovich, may I have a moment? I might say, I've even written them here, you can add them, but the content of the law says that's what this is about.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u36	Dear colleagues, it is the offer of the national MP Lápiná not to take this amendment into account. Amendment No. 3 of the Swedish People’s Deputy is subject to a vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:48:08]] For 168 The decision is not taken. No correction supported. What amendments do the national deputies still have?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u37	None.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u38	No more warnings. I am voting on the proposal for a second reading of the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation, registration number 3271. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:48:52]] For 367 Decision taken. Vladimir Romanovich, now I have a question for you. In view of the fact that one amendment you said was accurate and necessary for the law. Without it, can we now make decisions about approval as a whole? Is there a need for further work on the third reading?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u39	I think we need to work on the law. Because it's a major correction. Or add the words that Kseniya Mikhailevna insists on.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u40	Is there a need for further work?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u41	I think so.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, no objection? We then send for revisions, according to the regulations, for the third reading of the draft law in order to determine the individual provisions that were present in Amendment No. 3. No objections? Let's go to the third reading. Please, thank you. Have a seat. Announcing the Draft Law on Amendments to the Criminal Code of Ukraine, registration number 1340, please, Volodymyr Romanovich. [[on the protection of social morality]]
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u43	Vladimir Moisik, MP “For Ukraine!” Dear Alexander Volodymirovich! Once again, I emphasize that these two laws are closely related. And the Supreme Council of Ukraine obliged us to consider them at the same time. So if this law that we passed in the third reading goes through, the subject of the law of Gennady Moskal is the same. That is, the committee spoke for listening to them in the hall at the same time. Move it now, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u44	Can we postpone the consideration, or can we consider some adjustments, and then correct them as well?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u45	We cannot, for we are connected with the third reading in our previous law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u46	Dear colleagues, there is no objection that we should postpone consideration of this matter after the adoption of the entire previous law. Is there a denial? There's a denial. Please, Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u47	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. I don't have as many objections as the offer. As a result, and I'm going to the rapporteur, mainly to the committee representatives, on the basis that these are bills of one subject and subject, if we're sending the first bill for a third reading, would we not be able to take into account in the third reading that we adopt these two laws as one law, because it's still a change to the legislative acts that deal with this problem. So we'd ask and let's give a protocol commission to the committee, to make one law out of two, and we're economical and paper, including. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u48	Vladimir Romanovich, how can we do this already procedurally, one approved in the second reading, the other in the first reading?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u49	Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues, may be a protocol assignment, perhaps.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u50	Vladimir Romanovich, please work on the committee, prepare for the third reading, and then we will consider this project. Please sit down. The draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine in connection with the ratification of the Amendment to the Convention on the Physical Protection of Nuclear Material is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 2365]] Reporting to the People's Deputy of Goodima. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u51	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The Supreme Council of Ukraine at its meeting on 1803 In 09 she adopted the amendment to the Convention on the Physical Protection of Nuclear Material in the first reading of the Law on Amendments to certain laws of Ukraine in connection with the ratification of the Convention on the Physical Protection of Nuclear Material and entrusted it to the PEC Committee for its second reading. [[Registration number 2365]] The committee considered, worked out 22 proposals that were all taken into account. For your consideration, a second reading was made in accordance with the Regulations and the Law of Ukraine amending certain laws in connection with the ratification of the amendment to the Convention on the Physical Protection of Nuclear Material in a Comparative Table. [[Registration number 2365]] In view of the fact that all amendments made by the committee to the Committee are proposed to the Supreme Council to adopt the prescribed draft law in second reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u52	Thank you. What about the comments of the General Legal Department?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u53	The committee considered the comments of the Chief Legal Authority. These observations, according to the committee, are not very clear on their own, and when it comes to national physical protection expertise, it is a mandatory part of the national nuclear and radiation security expertise carried out in accordance with Ukrainian legislation, and there are two cases. In the event that the State's physical defence expertise is part of the State's nuclear and radiation security expertise, it is carried out in accordance with the Law. See article 40 of the Law on the Use of Nuclear Energy by Customer. Where the State's physical protection expertise is carried out separately, it shall be conducted by a special State-authorized central executive body in the field of public regulation and then financed in accordance with the Law on the Sources of Financing of State Authorities within the budgetary resources allocated for its maintenance. The conclusion of the committee that a second reading bill does not need to take into account the comments of the Chief Legal Authority.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u54	Thank you. Honorary colleagues, all the proposals made by the Ukrainian people’s deputies, are recommended by the committee. Do the National Deputies have any observations or warnings against the proposals made by the National Deputies and recommended by the Committee? None. Thus, I am voting on the adoption of the second reading and the whole draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine in connection with the ratification of the Amendment to the Convention on the Physical Protection of Nuclear Material. [[Registration number 2365]] I'd like to make a statement. [[10:55:57]] For 340. The law has been passed in general. The draft Law amending the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers Decree on State Customs, registration number 2462, has been announced for consideration. [[resecond reading]] Reports Sergey Anatolyovich Teryohin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u55	Good afternoon, dear fellows! On 16 June this year, the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy reviewed the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers' Decree on State Customs. I remind you that the project has already been considered by the Supreme Council in the second reading, but has not obtained the required number of votes and has been sent in accordance with the decision to re-read the second reading. For your consideration, there is a comparative table that takes note of the law’s entry into force, not as of January 1, 2009, but as of January 1, the following year. In addition, I would like to say for the transcript that the comparative table takes into account the offer of a national deputy of Ukraine Seminoga, according to which the object of taxation is complemented, namely, that the State's duty will be paid not only for the state registration of the property right to immovable property but also for its re-registration. But the Office of the Supreme Council has made a comment on the need to exclude the words “and re-registration” because civil legislation does not have such a mechanism as re-registration of the law. Therefore, in view of the Legal Authority’s exclusion of the “and re-registration, ” the Committee proposes that the law be adopted in a second reading and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u56	Dear colleagues, a number of amendments are proposed for rereading, and some of them are recommended by the committee. People's MP Carmazin, amendment number two. Are you insisting on your amendment? No, it doesn't.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u57	Amendment No. 3 of the Karmazin People's Deputy. Are you insisting? Don't insist. National MP Carmazin, next amendment on page 3, insists? Don't insist. The Seminog National MP insists on his amendment? Don't insist. National MP Carmazin, two recent amendments, do you insist on them? He insists. MP Carmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u58	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, the law proposes that the law take effect as of January 1, 2009. I propose that this law be recorded as taking effect from the day of publication. You can enter it from January 1st. We need people to be ready for what they're going to pay their dues. We can't do that. With regard to the second amendment, it refers to the fact that the Cabinet of Ministers will ensure the entry into force of the State Register of Real Estate Rights and Their Restrictions and Transfer by Municipal Enterprises of the Bureau of Technical Inventory to Local Authorities of State Register of Real Estate Rights. [[Then it was written by September, already September passed, to be written by December]] This should be done at some point in the preparation work. I don't understand why we can't write down a mandate for the Cabinet of Ministers to do this, just change it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u59	Dear colleagues, I remind you that this is a tax law according to the Budget Code and the Tax System Act. Any change should take effect from the new fiscal year. So, based on this logic, the committee proposed to introduce this law from January 1st of the following financial year. With regard to the second amendment, I remind the distinguished MP Carmazin that there is a law of 2536 that responds to questions about the alienation of immovable property and the conduct of the register. I mean, you're correct, but it's not the subject of this law. I just suggest you pay attention to the law number. Project 2536 and move this amendment there, it'll make sense, there are all questions about the State Register and the registration of real estate rights defined.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u60	Thank you, Sergey Anatolyovich. I'll have a request for you the next time the committee prepares tables, sets up amendment numbers to be more convenient, because yes. I've already numbered them, and I want to say that we have a warning on Amendment 8 and Number 9 made by National Deputy Carmazin. Sergey Anatolyevich, do you insist on voting on this amendment? Don't insist. I therefore put to the vote the second reading and, as a whole, the draft law amending the Ukrainian Cabinet Decree on State Customs. [[Registration number 2462]]
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u61	Please be supportive. [[11:01:49]] For 180. The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. A draft Law amending the Ukrainian Civil Code on the Compensation of Moral Harm is being announced for consideration. According to the report, Vladimir Philipovich Filipenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u62	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy at its meeting on 25 June 2009 considered a comparative table to the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Civil Code. [[on compensation for moral damage]] The registration number of Bill 4332, introduced by the Ukrainian national deputies Portnov and Lavrinović. The bill is designed to improve the order of moral damage. To this end, it is envisaged to amend article 23 of the Civil Code, which proposes that the humiliation of the honour and dignity of the individual, the business reputation of the individual, or the legal person, may also occur through the dissemination of unreliable information. In addition, to the number of circumstances that affect the extent of moral damage, the bill proposes to refer to the nature of the offence, the status of the person who has been subjected to such harm, the nature and manner of dissemination of unreliable information, the material status of the person who has suffered such harm, and other circumstances that are essential. During the drafting of the bill and its preparation for second reading to the committee, eleven proposals were made, of which two were fully taken into account and nine proposals were rejected, amendments to the legislative initiative. As a result of a review of the bill at its meeting, the Committee on Legal Policy decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian law amending the Ukrainian Civil Code, submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputies Portnov and Lavrinović, to be adopted on second reading and as a law as a whole. [[on compensation for moral damage]] [[Registration number 4332]] Please support the committee's conclusion. Thank you. I'm going to fix it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u63	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have a number of amendments here that the committee recommends to take into account and which it proposes to reject. I think we're going to have to do it quickly if we go through all the amendments. The first amendment by Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin is recommended by the committee. Is there a denial? None. Amendment number 2. People's Deputy Levcun. The committee's proposing a rejection. Is the MP insisting on his amendment? Don't insist. Amendment number 3. People's Department of Pisarenko. The committee recommends that we consider it. Is there a denial? There's no objection. Amendment number 4. People's Deputy Carmazin. Yuri Anatolyevich insists on his amendment? He insists. Please, the microphone of the People's Deputy Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u64	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like you to take a closer look at this paragraph 4, where it's written down, to complete it with words. including through the dissemination of unreliable information. I suggest you put it in the following line: “In the humiliation of the honour and dignity of a natural person, as well as of the business reputation of a natural or legal person who is physically or juridical persons experienced in connection with the spread of the knowledge of false information.” So I'm improving the law, I don't understand the logic of the committee that it rejected this amendment. Explain to me the logic.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u65	I thank you for trying to improve the law, but the committee's decisions are taken collectively, we recommend rejecting it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u66	Amendment 4, People's Deputies Karmazin, vote, please. [[11:05:51]] For-28 Correction not supported. Amendment No. 5 of the People's Deputy Levcun. Is the National MP insisting? No, it's not. Amendment No. 6 of the People's Deputies of Carmazin. Do you insist, Yuri Anatolyovich? MP Carmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u67	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National MPs, it is about how the moral damage is being compensated and it is very important that I offer a little bit of another edition and listen to it: “The amount of money compensation, moral damage is determined by the court depending on the nature of the offence, the status of the person who is being subjected to such damage, the nature and the manner in which the distribution is based on known false information, and the other circumstances which are essential.” That is, the article that includes, in that article, an article that does not contain the nature and way of spreading in the knowledge of false information, says unreliable information. I think it's better, it comes out of court practice and.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u68	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u69	I believe that there is also a continuation: “In determining the amount of compensation, the requirements of reasonableness and justice are taken into account, as well as the material condition of the person who has suffered such damage.” This part is taken into account, this part exists in an article, just another version I have right now, it comes out more of what's going on in court practice, and it takes into account these things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u70	Please, Vladimir Philipovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u71	Thank you. The point is, Yuri Anatoliyevich, we have just voted to remove the inaccuracies and inconsistencies in the previous bill, and in this case, we have the concept of a legal term for "not reliable information" according to the Civil Code. I'm afraid we've rejected this amendment from these issues, because then we'd be voting in disagreements with this law, which wouldn't fit in with the terminology that we have in Civil Law. I completely agree with you that this is also an object of legal protection, but we have "untrustworthy information" in the text, and that is what we think the article should sound like.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u72	Amendment No. 6 of the Karmazin People’s Deputy takes the vote. I'd like to make a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u73	There's "incredible information." [[11:08:51]] For-21 No correction supported. Amendment No. 7 of the People's Deputy Shishkina, do you insist on your amendment? No, you don't. Yes, yes, Shishkina.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u74	Amendment No. 8 of the People's Chamber of Pisarenko. Is the National MP insisting on the amendment? Don't insist. Amendment No. 9 of the People's Deputies of Levcun. Nor does he insist. Amendment number 10 of People's Deputies Pisarenko. He agrees with the committee. Amendment No. 11 of the People's Deputy Levcun. He agrees with the committee. Thus we considered all the amendments that the committee recommended to reject. As for now and which were recommended for consideration. As far as the General Legal Authority is concerned. Please refer to the profile committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u75	Dear colleagues, we propose a bill to be adopted in the second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u76	I would like to vote on the proposal for a profile committee on adoption in the second reading and in the entire draft Law on Amendments to the Civil Code of Ukraine. [[on compensation for moral damage]] [[Registration number 4332]] I'd like to make a statement. [[11:10:25]] For 281 The law has been passed in general. A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the suppression of illegal takeover and capture of enterprises is being announced for consideration, reports Kseniya Mikhailna Ljapina. [[Registration number 3011]]
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u77	Dear colleagues, Kseniya Lapina, “For Ukraine! ” It's a second reading again. After a failed second reading, we set up a working group, and this is the case when in fact in the working group we reached agreement with both government representatives and representatives of the opposition, namely the People's Deputy Voropeyeva, and in our view, we made a balanced law that will actually help the main goal, i.e. resisting the illegal takeover and capture of businesses. A number of amendments have been counted, no row. Please vote in the second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u78	Thank you, Kseniya Mikhailna. Dear colleagues, we have a lot of amendments here. Please, one of the Ukrainian national deputies whose amendments the committee recommends not to consider, that is, to reject, insists on their consideration. Please raise your hand. Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin, please, what is the correction?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u79	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense. Dear Xenia Mikhailn, I have proposed in the sixth amendment, in the sixth amendment, I have proposed that article 30 be completed in part of a third of this content, I am paying attention to all the national deputies, it is extremely important, that the authorities of the State and local self-government may be involved in the case or take part in the case at my initiative to reach conclusions on the exercise of their powers. The participation of the designated authorities in the economic process for the purpose of bringing the findings is mandatory in cases established by law or if the court deems it necessary because, in accordance with article 7 of the Ukrainian Law on Judicial Expertise, the judicial and expert activities are carried out by the state specialized agencies also in cases and under the conditions laid down by that law, by the judicial experts who are not employees of the designated institutions. I point out to you that sometimes courts make decisions that fall within the jurisdiction of local governments.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u80	Please, Kseniya Mikhailvna, your argument.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u81	Thank you. I want to point out that our committee is certainly unprofessional in making changes right into procedural legislation, so we tried to interfere minimally with procedural legislation. I think your suggestions might be right, but then let the profile committee take them into account in a separate bill. On the basis of the law, that is, not the law, but the taking or taking of businesses is not a direct attitude. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u82	Amendment No. 6 of the Karmazin People’s Deputy takes the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:14:06]] For -14 Correction not supported. Yuri Anatolyovich, are you insisting on other amendments? Please, it's Deputy Carmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u83	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! Unfortunately, now Kseniya Mikhailna has told the absolute truth. The Economic and Procedural Code is amended and amended by a non-professional committee. What are we doing with you?Oh, my God! This consideration of another entirely committee was to be prepared by these amendments. And that's why you see the logic. I thank you for your sincere response. What do you say we didn't mean to interrupt? So why are we amending this law without the Justice Committee? What are we doing now?Oh, my God! Do you understand? And so we can change the Civil Code to the Committee on Tourism. I'm sure I do. But that's what we're getting at. So Amendment No. 8, which is also rejected, I propose that part five of article 41 be put in a different edition. “In the cases provided for in paragraph 4 of Part One of Article 12, the Economic Court may require the conclusion of the State Commission on Securities and the Funding Market by a court person who is warned of the consequences of the refusal.” You do realize that this is the right of the court to provide.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u84	Please give the argument to Kseniya Ljapina.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u85	Thank you. This amendment actually has the subject of this bill because, once again, I emphasize, we make very few rights to procedural norms, only those that directly apply to the text. But we analyzed, and with the government, we analyzed the role of the Securities Commission, and we're absolutely convinced that it doesn't have to be given power to the central authority of executive power. It's not an expert organization, it's a central executive body. And we think that exorcising or obliging them to draw conclusions is absolutely not their function. They perform their functions, they have appropriate policies, the corresponding calculation, and the results of this calculation can be obtained by the court, but not by an expert opinion. We don't forbid it. All that is permitted under the Procedural Code is permitted, but we do not commit further.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u86	Amendment No. 8 of the Karmazin People’s Deputy takes the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:16:41]] For the 18th. Correction not supported. Are you insisting on any further amendments, Yuri Anatolyevich? Please, it's Deputy Carmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u87	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to say that I can't. It says that the court may require the conclusion of a public commission rather than the obligation, that is, it is not the obligation of a public commission. In general, any authority may be involved in establishing the truth by judicial authority. So I want understanding to be at least this moment, if we vote against it, I turn to the hall. Amendment 21. To supplement part two of article 67, “it is not possible to secure a lawsuit by way of removal” in paragraph 4 of the content: “the obligation of the shareholder to not participate in the general meetings of shareholders of the company”. She's this article, the amendment's out of the question. I think it improves the situation and the consideration of these matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u88	Honorable colleagues, the issue of insurance, the obligation of a suit of such matters is decided by another law. He was reviewed and ruled out by the Committee of Profiles. By the way, this case has already been ruled out. So we haven't really looked again at anything to rule out.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u89	Amendment No. 21 of the Karmazin People’s Deputies applies to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:18:31]] For -14 The decision is not taken. Correction not supported. Yuri Anatolyevich, are you insisting on any more of your amendments? Please, the microphone of the People's Deputy Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u90	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! This law not only amends the Civil Code, the Economic and Procedural Code, but also amends the Law to restore the ability of the borrower or declare him bankrupt. I'm talking to those who don't want to read the amendments right now and don't want to vote. Now Amendment 29, which is rejected, provides that the addition of part 6 of article 17, to which the addition is now made, I propose to complete it, to put it a little bit in another edition. Dealing with an authorized shareholder or associate with a limited or additional responsibility with a recovery plan when such a plan provides for the exchange of debt on shares, stakes, and pies. In such a case, the peace agreement plan is sent to a designated authorized person who is obliged to consider and agree to it within a month or to make reasoned observations. That's the whole point of my amendment. It comes from real life.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u91	Thank you. I would like to point out that paragraph 3, amending the Ukrainian Law on Restoration or Recognition of the Debtor's Payment, the Committee simply removed it altogether. We reconciled it with the government, it's not the subject of this law. There is no amendment to this law by the committee. So we didn't actually look at it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u92	Please, the microphone of the People's Deputy Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u93	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! In the same vein, why did I take the word that in the first reading we wrote paragraph 3 in the Law on Restoring the Payability of the Debtor to complete part six of article 17. That was a good point. Then comes Amendment 27, which is counted by the committee. I wanted that, if you're taking that amendment into account, that means I'm improving it; if not, then I'm asking you to put Amendment 27 to the vote, to maintain the hall because I think this amendment had to be made, which is included in the first reading. So the committee ruled out the ideology of first reading into the law that was supposed to be introduced, you just removed Kseniya Mikhailna. So I ask Amendment 27 to vote, Your Honor Alexander Volodymyrovich, for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u94	Dear colleagues, I'd like to pay attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u95	Xenia Mikhailna, one second. What about your correction?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u96	And mine goes 29th.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u97	Do you insist on considering your amendment?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u98	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u99	I see. Please argue, Kseniya Mikhailna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u100	I would like to point out that the amendment of the People's Deputies of Voropeyev specifically applied to the exclusion of paragraph three, i.e. the amendments to the Law on the Recovery of the Payability of the Debtor. This amendment was taken into account and agreed with the government. The government position on this issue is the same. You see, this law is very complicated by the fact that in the first reading, he forced everything that was not combined into one and too widely captured all spheres of life. So we narrowed these spheres down to the second reading, so that the content is the main thing to capture, the resistance to capture and capture. So we just rejected the adjacent spheres. And I agree with National Deputy Voropayev that this third part is really a matter of a separate bill that needs to be worked on separately, on the improvement of the Debtor Recovery Act. So I'm asking you to support the amendment of Voropeyeva.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? The Professional Committee decided to recommend that the 27th National MP, Voropeyeva, should be taken into account. National MP Carmazin denies her editorial work. Amendment No. 27 shall be put to the vote. Please be sure. [[11:23:13]] For 272 Amendment 27 counted. A vote is taken on amendment 29 of the People’s Deputies of Carmazin. I'd like to make a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u102	Please don't support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u103	A national MP does not insist on voting. It's coming off. It's on, it's on. Please, what other amendments are being insisted on by the national MP Carmazin?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u104	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Chairman, since the 30th amendment is also made to the law that was adopted in the first reading on "Recovery of the debtor" and is now deleted by 27 amendments, it loses its meaning in the 29th, the 30th amendment loses its meaning and the 33rd makes no sense. That's what I'm talking about. Therefore, I ask you not to vote for these amendments. Next. And then there's another law, and there I'm going to put it again.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u105	Amendment number 36. Are you insisting?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u106	No, this bill adds to the article of the Law on State regulation of the Securities Market in Ukraine, paragraph 4.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u107	Amendment 36. Are you insisting?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u108	Dear Yuri Anatolyovich, a question to you. Corrections. 36 counted as editorial. Do you agree with the committee? You agree. Amendment number 37. Do you agree with the committee's recommendation to reject it? People's deputies agree. Amendment number 38. Do you agree with the committee's recommendation to reject it? No, it's not. Please, it's Deputy Carmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u109	Ladies and gentlemen, this is about making changes to another law. That's what this bill is about, and it's about the complexity of five bills, and not everyone can get a sense of what it's about. This is before the Law on Governmental Regulation of the Securities Market in Ukraine. The amendment reads: “To supplement the bill with the following content: ‘Absacet two parts of Article 9 III, which reads as follows: ‘The conduct of registers of shareholders of shares, shares companies with a public share of 25 per cent and more is carried out by a legal person designated by the National Property Fund of Ukraine on the basis of a tender conducted by the law-defined procedures for the purchase of goods, works and services for public funds, which has a license to maintain registers of holders of nominal securities obtained in accordance with the established order.’ [[listen]] It's about protecting the government's share and not hiding the registrars, as it did with the Nicopoli Ferrosco plant or other factories.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u110	Please, Kseniya Mikhailna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u111	I would like to point out, my fellow Members, that there are many problems in our legislation. By law, we will not solve all the problems of legislation. This has no direct bearing on the subject matter of this law. This radically changes the issue of the registration of these rights in general. It's regulated by laws. Maybe it's not perfect. Have Deputy Carmazin present a separate bill, which will be considered separately by the State Property Fund, the Securities Commission, and so forth. And now, in this bill, it's one line of change in the philosophy of registration, well, it's just not possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u112	Amendment No. 38 of the Karmazin People’s Deputies applies to the vote. [[11:27:19]] For-13. The amendment of Yuri Anatoliovich is not supported. Does Carmazin’s national deputy insist on any further amendments? Please, Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u113	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, we have here before another law there are changes that we also have. This is again an interesting approach: Part three of article 9 of the Act on the National Depository System and the Features of Electronic Exchange of Securities in Ukraine is being supplemented. I suggest that there is, where it is written, that a designated registration is carried out by a person who is executed by a designated Cabinet of Ministers by a legal person who has obtained a statutory registration license, complemented by such a significant difference and complementation: which is the result of a tender to avoid corruption from there. This might help me understand why I don't want to give the opportunity just to any institution they want. A tender conducted with the application of the procedures laid down by law has purchased goods and so forth and has a licence to conduct what is available.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u114	Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that the amendment to the Act on the National Depository System and the characteristics of the electronic circulation of securities has been proposed where amendments to the Act on the National Depository System and the characteristics of the electronic circulation of securities have been proposed. I insist again. The bill can't be about everything, about all the trouble in Ukraine. In this case, changes to such an important issue as the depository system should be introduced by a separate bill. And once again, I would like to emphasize that I can still discuss the issue of corruption today. I think the biggest corruption in the tender system is today. And, excuse me, putting a tender issue here is to make corruption about registering securities, not to rule it out. So I insist that there is no need to make changes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u115	Thank you, Xenia Mikhailno. Please, National Deputy Carmazin denies the 39th Amendment. He's got a word for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u116	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I address everyone -- white, red, blue, orange. This amendment excludes that the State will not be able to resist attempts to violate the interests of the State and to remove from its control the state property that has already been brought back by property that has had and has had an impact on the authorities. Because the first reading says that more than 50 percent of the registers of shareholders with a state shareholding are carried out by a legal entity designated by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. So I'm asking, Amendment 39, 40, 41, which is counted, not to vote and I'm putting it in favour. Support, I think it has an anti-State position. [[Lupina, Voropeyeva, Stick]] I insist not to vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u117	Amendments 39-41 shall be put to the vote. Please be sure. [[11:31:07]] For-136 Corrections are not supported. Dear colleagues! There is an amendment to the vote number 42, National Deputy Carmazin, please identify yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u118	Don't vote for Amendment 42, it's Carmazine. [[11:31:37]] For-82 Correction not supported. Yuri Anatolyovich! Are you still insisting on any of your amendments, Yuri Anatolyovich? Please, it's Deputy Carmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u119	I sincerely thank the national MPs who have supported the state approach, and now the government will be able to influence at least the shares that it has that remain unscrupulous. And I would like to draw your attention to Amendment 47, which reads: “Renewing the proposal to supplement article 10 with such a content“is prohibited from engaging in the execution of executive actions, subjects of non-state ownership that provide services for the protection of state and other property, services for the protection of citizens, which the committee is invited to exclude”. Because it was the involvement of nonstate entities that provided security services that often led to strong enterprise acquisitions, violations of law, and legal decisions of the courts. Remember, all the raiders' passions are made by these groups. So I'm asking you to consider this position, this amendment, because it serves as a protection of the rule of law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, this hyperpopulism, I'm sorry, for lack of information, it's just crossing every line. Note that the Law on Enforcement has already been settled, and these questions have been resolved by Law 540, which we have adopted a little earlier with you. At least we have to learn the material part.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u121	Amendment 47, People’s Deputy Karmazin, is to be voted on. [[11:33:42]] For-21 Correction not supported. What is the next amendment you insist on?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u122	I would like to say that Amendment 53 rejected the draft Law on Electronic Signature with the motivation prepared by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. By the time the bill is drafted, we can have it in this draft, and in article 9, we can determine that a legal person has the right to provide information certified by an electronic digital signature. And there's absolutely no contradiction to that. That's 53 revisions. Why do we have to wait for what other project is being prepared by the Cabinet of Ministers, I don't understand, you know? And how do the authors know that the Cabinet of Ministers is preparing such a project?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u123	Amendment 53 shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:35:04]] For-12. Correction not supported. Yuri Anatolyevich, what other correction are you insisting on? MP Carmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u124	Yuri Carmazin. I think we can take it from here. I don't insist on any other amendments. The simple question is that, Mr. Alexander Volodymyrovich, when we write and adopt such a colossal bill, we need to draw conclusions and work together in several committees, because we are changing where the Committee on Legal Policy was supposed to be, where the Committee on Justice was supposed to be, where the Economic Committees were supposed to be. And we're not doing anything about it, and we're doing it through one Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship. This is wrong in its root, and this contradicts in general the order of powers that are between committees and therefore many misunderstandings arise in the adoption of these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u125	Honorable colleagues, who of Ukraine’s national deputies, whose amendments the committee recommends rejecting, insist on their consideration? National MP Voropeyev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u126	I request that you return to the vote on Amendments 39, 40, 41, if you please. I think the MPs just didn't figure it out. What was the purpose of the committee when we agreed on the entire table? So that we do not amend other laws that are non-professional and not relevant to the registration of those rights. Let us go back to this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u127	The proposal of the national MP Voropeyev to return to the vote on amendments 39, 40, 41 is put to the vote. Please identify yourself. [[11:37:20]] For 322 We're back. I'm betting on voting for a profile committee to support these amendments. Please vote. [[11:37:43]] For 329 Corrections are supported. Dear colleagues, since other national MPs, whose amendments the committee recommends rejecting, do not insist on their consideration, I ask, which of the national deputies objects to any amendment the committee recommends to take into account?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u128	There are no more. I am voting on the second reading of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on the fight against illegal takeover and takeover of enterprises]] [[Registration number 3011]] I'd like to make a statement. [[11:38:39]] For 376 Decision taken. Kseniya Mikhailna, there is no need for further work. In fact, we had supported a text that was recommended by a professional committee. I am voting on the approval of the entire draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on the fight against illegal takeover and takeover of enterprises]] [[Registration number 3011]] Please vote. [[11:39:20]] For 381 The law has been passed in general. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain activities is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 3336]] Xenia Mikhailna Lapina, please come to the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u129	Thank you, Your Honor. I want to remind you, this bill is based on an analysis of the practice of the work of the Board of Appeal on licensing issues. In fact, he makes editorial corrections. A series of amendments came in, some of them counted, some of them rejected. The draft committee requests approval in the second reading as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u130	Thank you, Kseniya Mikhailna. We have here five amendments to the National Deputies, three of which are amendments to the Karmazin People’s Deputy, which the Committee recommends to reject. Yuri Anatolyevich, do you agree with the committee's proposal? There's no insistence on the MP. Regarding the first two amendments recommended by the committee. Any objections to the national MPs? None. In this way, I am voting on the proposal for a profile committee on adoption in the second reading and in the whole of the draft Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of agricultural activity. [[Registration number 3336]] I'd like to make a statement. [[11:41:01]] For 184 The decision is not taken. Kseniya Mikhailnovna, what is your proposal for a future destiny? There's an offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u131	Dear colleagues, please support the second. If there are any comments that we have not considered, we are ready to work on. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u132	The rapporteur's suggestion is to send this bill for ugly second reading. Puts the vote to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:41:38]] For 344 Decision taken. The bill is aimed at re-reading the second reading. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the National Council of Ukraine on Television and Radio Broadcasting on improving the adoption and publication of acts of the National Council is being announced for consideration. reports Olena Anatoliyevna Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u133	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! The need for the adoption of this bill is, above all, a failure to comply with the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine of the Ukrainian Act on National Council for Television and Radiocommunication. As a result, there are numerous circumstances that hinder the radio industry’s work in Ukraine. Repeatedly, documents approved by the Nakrad changed their contents, adopted one on a website, and used a third document. Since Nacsovet is a regulator, its legal acts must go through all stages of compliance required of the regulator by the Act on the Fundamentals of Public Regulatory Policy in the field of economic activity, and above all, these instruments must be made public in accordance with the established procedure. It is this bill that proposes to implement these simple rules. After his adoption, there will be no such thing as having Nakrad publish, or perhaps hiding some of his documents under his dress. And now it is. The activities of the Council over the past five years have gone beyond the legal framework and often entails the destabilisation of Ukrainian air, which is not in keeping with the needs of either the country or our fellow citizens. Legally incorrect and politically committed acts and decisions of the Nakrad were repeatedly discussed at a meeting of the Committee on Freedom of Word and Information. There are several reasons why the regulatory authority has begun to establish the Censorship prohibited by the Constitution. One of them is that at the moment, Nakrad's normative acts are not going through the registration procedure in Minius. They are not published properly, as required by the Ukrainian Act on the Principles of National Regulatory Policy in the Field of Economic Activity. This law for Nakrad is unwritten. Then, the radio industry in Ukraine suffers from indeterminateness. I am convinced that the adoption of these changes will contribute to the return of the Nakrad to the legal field and the depoliticization of its decisions. Once again, I stress that the purpose of this bill is to bring the activities of the Council into line with the provisions of the Constitution and the laws in force in Ukraine. On April 14, we all adopted the bill in the first reading. Thereafter, the committee received proposals from national deputies that were all taken into account, either in fact or entirely. So I now call on the entire radio industry to adopt this bill in a second reading and in general. Thank you so much for understanding the problems that now exist in every radio organization. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u134	Thank you, Olena Anatolyevna. Please say a few words about the position of the committee regarding the comments of the Chief Legal Authority.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u135	The position of the committee to support it. And with regard to the amendments, the amendments of Kirilczuk and Karpuk are essentially taken into account, and the correction of Carmazin is fully accounted for.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u136	I'm asking about the Chief Legal Officer's observation.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u137	You asked about the committee's position. The Committee believes that there is a need for support in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u138	That is, you feel that comments do not necessarily need to be taken into account in the drafting of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u139	They don't need it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u140	I understand the position of the committee. Dear colleagues, we have only three amendments here. Amendment No. 1 is taken into account in substance. People's MP Kirilchuk objected to the committee's editing? He doesn't mind. Amendment No. 2 of the People's Deputy Karmazin. It's taken into account essentially. Do you mind, Yuri Anatolyovich? By the second amendment, please speak to Deputy Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u141	Yuri Carmazin. Your Honourable Chairman, Your Honor, Helen Alexanderine, in general, I agree with your assessment that the National Council has come out in general and exists beyond the bounds of the law. It should be followed by a commission of inquiry, for members of the National Council have captured the media. Now they're getting rid of Melody's radio, by the way, with the help of the Attorney General's Office, they're going against the law you passed. True, it comes into force on January 1. But I wanted to. It's written here essentially, so it's not completely accounted for. I would like those acts of the National Council, which are not regulatory, to enter, to take effect from the day they were adopted, but not before the day they were published. Did they count it as I wrote it, because you wrote it "in fact"? Then thank you, then you don't need a vote if you count. And the scientific expert's comment is to accept, but it says the second one again. I don't think I need another.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u142	So you don't insist on voting on this amendment. Thank you. I'll put it to a vote. Wait a second. Mikola Volodymyrovich Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u143	Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that, in fact, our experts and law-abiding lawyers, there are some warnings here about legal technology, the finesse we're talking about. But in fact, the idea is that, independently of who worked for the National Council, everyone understood how the National Council worked after the decisions were approved. So when it comes to the current issue, it's automatically published; when it comes to normative things, they're published in an appropriate way, as provided by law. So I think that in today's situation, before we finally settled a number of fundamental issues and with regard to the promulgation of draft laws in Ukraine as a whole, I think that this bill will help our radio industry rather than hinder it. So I think it's the right idea to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u144	Thank you, Mikola Volodymyrovich. I would like to vote on the adoption of the second reading and the whole draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the National Council for Television and Radio Broadcasting, registration number 3153. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:49:09]] For 290 Decision taken. The law has been passed in general. Dear colleagues! We have the next draft of the Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the National Council for Television and Radio Broadcasting. [[second reading]] He's supposed to report to Condratuk Olena Constantinena. She's sick. And there's no one to replace it right now. So there's a proposal to postpone this draft law to the next week. Any objections to the deputies? Is there no objection? We're transferring this bill to next week. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Aid to Families with Children, registered number 1043-2, is being announced for consideration. Catherine Eugenyevna Lukyanova reports. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u145	Dear colleagues! The bill proposes to harmonize the procedure for determining the size of the child’s birth by using the minimum cost of living for children under the age of 6 and to replace its name with birth and upbringing aid. A total of 16 suggestions were made: 10 included, 6 rejected. The chief legal officer in the administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine called for a bill without notice. All proposals: 1, 5, 6, 7, which propose to change the text of the word “to be brought up” with the words “to keep a child after birth” are rejected. With these suggestions, the child’s birth is replaced by two forms of assistance: birth aid and child support after birth. In addition, care for a child is paid when he reaches the age of three. The introduction of a new aid name will complicate the payment of these aids. In addition, the introduction of a new name would not be in line with the Ukrainian Act on “Generally Compulsory State Social Insurance” in relation to temporary loss of employment and expenses caused by birth and burial. During the consideration of the bill in the working groups, workers from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy in family affairs, young people and sports insisted on leaving the title “Help for the Birth of a Child”. I would also like to point out that the main norm of the bill is to unify the procedure for determining the size of aid when a child is born on the basis of the amount of subsistence minimum used, the committee has taken into account. According to Minfin, the bill will require an additional 1.4 billion dollars. The committee agreed with the proposal to enact the law as of January 1, 2011. The committee's decision is to adopt a bill as a whole. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u146	Honorable national MPs, whose amendments the committee recommends to reject, are urged to consider them? Please, Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u147	Yuri Carmazin. Thank you. In general, this bill is well considered, but in article 10, article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on State Aid to Families with Children, the following wording reads: [[This is Amendment 7]] “Right to help with the birth of a child and to keep it after birth.” I propose the title in the article to put “and to keep it after birth”, so to speak, “Help with the birth and maintenance of the child after birth is provided under this law by one of the parents of the child, the adoptive parent or guardian.” I don't understand why it's not counted. If I may, Your Honor, Catherine Yuriovna. Explain whether we can count, and you may agree with what needs to be taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u148	Dear Yuri Anatolyevich, the question is that all questions under the new title of the law have been rejected. I don't know if they've been offered. Well, there's a lot of changes to names. The question is, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy thinks we have it. We've got two payments now, and this new name, this amendment, it's going to make three payments. We're not going to have two kids, we're going to have three. So they suggested that we not change.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u149	Do you insist on voting? Are you insisting on the vote? Please state the argument of the People's Deputy Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u150	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! Dear Catherine Eugenyevna! The point is that I don't propose to change the name of the law. This article is actually about help, and about maintenance after birth, so I'm actually changing the name and saying, editorially it's better and more correct, it's covered in this content, and it doesn't require that there's any extra funding. It's just a name change, nothing else. Nothing more! That's the whole point of what it says. And you don't need any extra money. I understand why the government was afraid. There's no such thing. There's legal technology in everything, and let's vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u151	The proposal of the People’s Deputy Karmazin is based on a vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:54:34]] For-35 Correction not supported. Dear colleagues, who among the national MPs still insists on considering his amendments, which committee recommends not to be taken into account? There aren't any. Who among Ukraine’s national deputies has a warning about the amendments the committee recommends to take into account? None. I'm voting on a proposal for a profile committee to be approved on second reading and for the whole bill amending the Ukrainian Law on State Assistance to Families with Children. [[Registration number 1043-2]] I'd like to make a statement. [[11:55:21]] For 321 The law has been passed in general. The draft Law on Physical Culture and Sports has been announced for consideration. [[resecond reading]] Paul Ivanovich Kostenko reports. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u152	Honourable National Deputies of Ukraine, Reverend Alexander Volodymyrovich! The Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport and Tourism has drafted a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Physical and Sports and other legislative acts of Ukraine. [[Registration number 2562]] The committee at its meeting on June 24, 2009, attended by representatives of the Ukrainian Ministry of Family, Youth and Sports, the National Olympic Committee, the Ukrainian Sports Committee, reviewed and considered amendments to the National Deputies of Ukraine, Karmazin, and Zuravko, who had come to read the draft law again. The Committee expresses its appreciation to the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the tireless work on the bill. A draft law for re-reading was prepared by the Committee in accordance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules. The committee proposes to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt the bill in a re-second reading and in general. In addition, the committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine implement this law as of January 1, 2011. In total, 260 amendments were made, 5 of which were rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u153	Honorable colleagues, who of the Ukrainian national deputies whose amendments have been rejected, insist on their consideration? There aren't any. Yes. Please, Tomenko Mikola Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u154	Dear colleagues, I have a proposal from the co-author. Considering that we are actually having a second year of discussion in the session hall and with experts, I would like to ask those amendments that are unaccounted for, and those that are included not to insist on their vote. And to approve the decision, and to adopt the bill in the second reading and in general. And allowing us to improve and bring into line with reality our strategy for developing physical culture and sports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u155	Thank you, Mikola Volodymyrovich. Which of the Ukrainian national deputies has a denial against the committee's recommendations in the light of any amendments. There aren't any. In this way, I am voting on the proposal for a profile committee to be adopted in the second reading and in the entire draft Law on Physical Culture and Sport. Registration number 2562. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:58:19]] For 327 The law has been passed in general. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on the development of the work of convicts]] Please, Svetlana Alexandrovna Schmelov. 1158, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u156	Schmelova, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Honourable National Deputies, on June 2, this year the Supreme Council of Ukraine reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law amending certain laws of Ukraine, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers, and adopted it on the first reading as a basis. [[No. 3400]] I would like to remind you that the bill provides for amendments to Ukraine's laws on local government administrations and on the employment of the population, which are proposed to establish rules on the participation of local public administrations in the acquisition of convicted professions that use demand in the labour market. In addition, public and territorial employment programs should help create jobs for convicted and socially useful people. There was only one proposal for the title of the bill that was included in the table. On June 24, this year, the Committee on Social Policy and Work reviewed the bill and decided to approve the text of a comparative table with the proposal and amendment of the Ukrainian National MP to the bill amending certain laws of Ukraine and to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, pursuant to article 123, paragraph 3, of the Supreme Council Rules, that it should be adopted in a second reading and in general. [[Registration number 3400]] According to the Chief Legal Authority, a bill can be adopted in a second reading and generally as a law. Taking into account the above, the request to adopt the bill in second reading and generally as a law. Considering that while this bill was in the Supreme Council without action, so many convicts simply ate bread, not something they learned. Please take this seriously and accept this bill. I would like to thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u157	Thank you, Svetlana Alexandrovna, for not going beyond the 12-hour rule, I announce a 15-minute extension. Dear colleagues! There is only one amendment to the second reading, and it is recommended by the committee for consideration. Is there any objection to the Ukrainian national MPs regarding taking this amendment into account?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u158	None. I put to the vote the second reading and generally as a bill the bill amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the development of the work of convicts]] [[Registration number 3400]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:01:36]] For 322 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! And the last question that we will consider until recess is the draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings on "The Status of Freedom of Speech in Regional Media". Please, Anna Mikolayevna Herman will report. Hanna Mikolayevna Herman is invited to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u159	Dear colleagues! The importance of parliamentary hearings from freedom of speech, especially in the regional press right now, can't be denied, because even at the moment we're sitting here in the Parliamentary Hall, journalists from Odessa are calling me and shouting that they're being turned off just the light on television, that they're not allowed to work in the event that they're not following orders from the authorities. In Parliament’s spheres, journalists approach me and say that editors have taken on the role of censors and that if the material does not have the Prime Minister’s approval, it means that the material is either not going at all or that whole paragraphs are inserted. I have the facts, Mr. Cosemiakin. I have facts. All the paragraphs are inserted without the author’s knowledge, and these things have already become a practice in Ukraine. And so we wanted to do the parliamentary hearings on October 14th, a working group was formed to prepare these parliamentary hearings, and all the materials were prepared, but unfortunately on October 14th we failed, and we suggest that Mr. Tomenko and I do this parliamentary hearing on December 2nd. And listen here to the information from all regions. Regardless of who's in power in those regions, we need to know whether the journalists here are confirming public pressure on them by the local authorities and the central authorities. We know that darkeners are returning to the TV channels, they are not loud, but we know that there are clear orders, how many minutes to show the prime minister, how to show, and what photograph to put in the newspapers. This is already a practice and I ask you to vote in favour of the parliamentary hearing order. And you don't have to be so indignant, the honourable members of the Yulia Timoshenko faction, because you fought for freedom of speech in Ukraine, and we have to keep your promises and we will do them, and the parliamentary hearings on freedom of speech in the regions will be in Ukraine, and you will not be able to prevent it. I ask you to vote in favour of this order.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u160	Any questions for the reporter? No questions asked. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue, is there a need? [[on the appointment of parliamentary hearings]] Mikola Volodymyrovich Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u161	Dear colleagues, as co-author of the decision, I believe that this issue should be discussed, but I would ask Hannah Mikolayevna to discuss how we can help the media rather than translate it into a pre-election political plane. Because if we start now when we make this decision, we can't do anything good in these parliamentary hearings. So I think we need to support this decision, but we need to get ready to talk in a way that we can actually look at the problems that we have. The relationship between founders and journalists in the regional media, the relationship between owners and journalists in the central channels. And so it's not a competition, who prefers freedom of speech and which parties fight more against freedom of speech, but it's a professional professional conversation. In the context of this professional professional conversation, I believe that the decision should be taken and parliamentary hearings held on December 2nd. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u162	Mr. Tomenko, I'd very much like to separate the press from the election, but unfortunately that's impossible. Because the press is reporting on the processes in society that are going on, otherwise the press is not needed, and what the press is doing in the elections is obvious. And if we tell you and I don't, we're gonna lie. That's why I'm here for the truth to come out of this room at the parliamentary hearings, and let the regional journalists themselves tell it from the rostrum. We're not politicians, we're journalists themselves, let them come and tell us how it happens, how they do it, how they have working conditions, and whether they have real opportunities for freedom of speech today, and that's the right thing to do. Politics, of course, has nothing to do with it, but you know that the press, it's the most important mechanism of politics and all political processes, it's not a "verstat" on which details are made, it's a word, it's always been politics.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u163	Offer, please, National Deputy Chevchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u164	Colleagues, I'm not going to discuss assessing the situation with freedom of speech, but I think I need legal clarity in the documents. We have the Rules stating that the hearing order should be approved no later than 30 days before the hearing itself. Therefore, if this decree is to be voted on and it is to be voted on effectively, the date must be adjusted. In the first paragraph of this ruling, it seems to me that the date should not be until December 16, 2009. This gives us the same 30 days. And in paragraph number 2, where we're proposing to Derterradio to make proposals on the speakers, I would suggest that we bring the date of December 1 -- that will give us enough time for the Derteradio to submit his position. And once again, in the first paragraph of December 2, replace, as required by the Rules, December 16 is 30 days, and in the second paragraph of the decree of November 20, replace as of December 1, 2009.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u165	Please, People's Deputy Bully. [[B in m in s a l in]] People's Deputy, please make suggestions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u166	Thank you. I will vote in favour of this ruling, but I would like to draw Parliament's attention to another issue. The fact is that the Mikolai TV company Norma has been getting pressure from the BAF authorities for almost two months now on its professional activities. And I think that the problems of the press should always be heard in this room. Because not everything is, unfortunately, normal in this field in Ukraine. And I think that today we need not only to pay attention to the political aspect of this issue, but we also need to pay attention to the "no-goods" that the Ukrainian Security Service is doing with regard to this system television company that has been working on the market in Mikolayev for more than 20 years, has two FM stations, has a newspaper, but nevertheless they have such problems with the forces in Ukraine today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u167	I'm sorry, this is a question for the hearing itself, not now in the procedure. Please, Hanna Mikolayevna, in suggestions to the national deputy Shevchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u168	Dear colleagues, the sooner we can do parliamentary hearings in Ukraine, the sooner we can put an insurmount for the oppression of freedom of speech. The artificial effort to switch this date today has only one goal: to last as long as possible such a situation, so that the longest in the manual office can manage the district radio companies, the National Television Company. We've registered another bill here with Deputy Grac, which will regulate balance in public media, but today they're trying to get it as close as possible to the elections to use, because it's easier to catch fish in cloudy water. So I call upon all those who have expensive principles of freedom of speech, who feel pressured by those who govern freedom of speech and who do not give access to information. I urge everyone to vote on the date of the parliamentary hearings as soon as possible. Let me remind you, we tried this on October 14th, and Vladimir Litwin promised us this date, and later it happened that instead of our parliamentary hearings, we had other parliamentary hearings -- about foreign Ukraine -- as if this topic was more important than what was happening in Ukraine's borders. We always have something more important to us than the Ukrainians on our land. So, I'm asking you, and I urge you to let's have these parliamentary hearings, not to be afraid of the truth, not to be afraid of what the journalists in the regions will say here from the rostrum, the highest public rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u169	Krzemyakin Andriy Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u170	Dear Hannah Mikolayevna, our faction has indeed been determined today to continue to vote in favour of the Order “On the Status of Freedom of Speech in Regional Media”. But today, after listening to your speech, I would like to go to Mikol Volodymyrovich, and as co-author of this decision, to make him aware that this is about the regional media. We have a decision on May 30 on local elections. I think that if you agree to transfer these hearings to February, there will be no political coloring, there will be no speeches of the kind that we have just heard. So our faction will only vote if these hearings are held in February of last year. From the next room! Next!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u171	Last year it's Freud's, you'd like it not to happen, you're afraid of the truth, you're afraid that journalists from the regions will come and tell you about the results of the five-year-old Maidan, Maidan five-year-old who you're talking about, that you've won the freedom of speech, and now you're speaking as the first victims of freedom of speech. So you don't want this to happen, and I insist. And I ask all the deputies for democracy and freedom of speech to support our proposals, our proposals with Tomenek.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u172	Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u173	Dear Alexander Vladimirovich! Dear colleagues! Freedom of speech is an essential conquest of Ukrainian democracy. The Party of the Regions, Viktor Fedorović Janukovic personally, and we have always protected, protected and protected freedom of speech in Ukraine. No one will be able to hit the journalist's free voice. A party of regions, Yanukovic Viktor Fedorovic will never allow it! This is where we stand to die, yes! I therefore propose to support Anna Herman's proposal and not delay consideration of this issue in the summer or spring hall. Put on the agenda immediately as Litwin promised and consider at the beginning of next month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u174	Dear colleagues, 12 hours 13 minutes, we are moving on to decision-making. I am voting on the basis of a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the holding of parliamentary hearings on "The state of freedom of speech in the regional media". [[No. 5086]] I'd like to make a statement. [[12:14:23]] For 251 Decision taken. National deputy Shevchenko proposed. The factions, please. Region Party – 168, "Club of Timoshenko" – 1, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" – 34, communists – 27, "Club of Lithuania" – 19, non-fractional – 2. The national deputy Shevchenko proposed a date instead of December 2, 16. I'm putting the people's deputy Shevchenk's proposal to the vote. [[12:15:07]] For-36 The offer is not supported. Kožemykin, a national deputy, suggested that these hearings be held in February 2010. I am proposing to the national deputy Cosemyakin that I vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:15:32]] For-144 The offer is not supported. I am voting on the whole draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to hold parliamentary hearings on "The State of Freedom of Speech in Regional Media". [[Registration number 5086]] I'd like to make a statement. [[12:16:05]] For 231 Decision taken. A break of up to 12 hours is announced 47 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u175	Dear colleagues, continue our work. We have just the right situation to consider the veto of the President of Ukraine. The Ukrainian Act on State Land cadastre, with proposals from the President, has been announced for consideration. Registration number 0855. Report to the national deputy of Tkak. Please. Report to the national deputy of Tkak.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u176	Dear Lord Chairman! Dear national deputies, invited! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations at its meeting on 19 June 2009 reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on State Land cadastre at registration number 0855. It should be noted that the history of the bill is as follows. It was introduced into the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as early as 2004. On March 20, 2007, it was adopted as a law. However, the President of Ukraine did not sign it, and on April 13, 2007, he returned to the Supreme Council with his proposals. And the comparative table that we're looking at today is being developed by the committee, according to the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulation on the drafting of the Ukrainian Law on State Land cadastre of June 27, 2007, taking into account the comments of the President of Ukraine. As a result, 113 proposals and amendments were made to the committee. Of these, 101 are included. The main point made by the President before the bill is that the bill actually created a double base of information on land. And that the function of running a national land cadastre should be performed by one authority. That is, the President of Ukraine denied that the introduction of land cadastre and documentation would be carried out not only by the central authority of the executive body on land issues and its authorities on the ground but also by local authorities. I will point out that this observation is included in the text of the bill and is envisaged that the authorities of the State Land cadastre are the authorities of land resources. Since rural councils do not currently have the financial, material, or personnel capacity to exercise such powers. The bill also calls for the exchange of information on land between rural, rural, city councils and land administrations. Thus, the state land cadastre will exist as the only information system proposed by the President of Ukraine. The national registration of land rights will be carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Ukrainian Law on the State Registration of Real Estate Rights and Their Burdens. The cadastre will be carried out at three levels: the state, the regional, and the local. The information of the State land cadastre is an open information except for those referred to in the Ukrainian Information Act to information with limited access. So I would like to point out that you and I are finally going to adopt this law, which is a committee-worked and takes into account European experience, because today Ukraine remains the only state in post-Radians space in which the issue of land cadastre is not regulated. I ask you to look closely at this bill and support our committee's decision to adopt this bill as a whole. Thank you. The report is complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u177	Thank you, Roman Volodymyrovich. Ladies and gentlemen, since this project has already been the subject of the President's comments, it has already been worked on on the committee, we are now proposing a new draft project, which has been drafted, let's say, in a manner consistent with the requirements of the Ukrainian Constitution, because to a law approved by the Supreme Council, apart from the President's comments, the proposals made by the Ukrainian people's deputies, which, in my opinion, is completely unconstitutional. But as long as the Rules are being drafted, we don't know what, because the proposals made by the President of Ukraine cannot be worked out, so we now propose to determine for the session room the proposals made by the committee. Whether we will consider every proposal made by the Ukrainian National Deputies or now, in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee of Profiles, we will consider those proposals of the National Deputies that the Committee recommends not to take into account, i.e. in the second reading mode. What will be the suggestions? Please, Roman Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u178	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, I want to tell you that, in principle, apart from the comments of the committee members, there was no comment on the second reading. The only thing that came in here was an application from me as a national deputy, from my colleague, Bebezenka Valerija Fedorovich. In principle, we went through all of these amendments, some of them are counted, some of them are rejected, and so today this document is systemic. I'm very afraid that if we go through every correction and, God forbid, we don't get 226 votes technically to support the amendment, we'll just lose the unity and systemality of this bill. So I'd like to ask you not to go through with it. Maybe any of the MPs have a note, I want to give them my explanation. And I would also ask you to make an amendment to 113 out of my words, because once all of these amendments have been considered on the committee, we have been approached by scientists and practitioners asking for a different 113 amendment. With your permission, I'd like to read it for the transcript.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u179	Wait a second. There's no permit yet. 113. The amendment of the Bebezenka People's Deputy is in the table. Now we're going to look at the amendments that are, 113 here, and then we're going to go to your proposal. Working in second reading mode. Dear colleagues, those Ukrainian national deputies who made their amendments, and the committee recommends that they be rejected, insist on considering their amendments? Who among Ukraine’s national deputies insists on considering their amendments? No one insists. Dear colleagues, who objects to the committee's recommendations on any amendment made to the comparative table? No one's denying it. There's a denial. Please. National MP Sinchenko, please. People's MP's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u180	Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that this law would have to be done with the Executive Committee and the local self-government, because it is only in this law that there are organizational measures that local authorities, rural, rural and urban councils should take, not documentation. This is a violation of the Law “On Local Self-Government” and a violation of the Constitution of Ukraine. [[Article 33]] [[6th, 7th, 140th and 142nd Articles]] And that's why there's an offer to reject. I'm sorry for working out. And along with our committee to reconcile all differences.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u181	What number of the amendment do you propose to reject? Is it a no?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u182	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u183	Thank you. Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u184	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues, I want to tell you that, in principle, what a colleague has just reported is logical. But we have to understand that in Ukraine we went a little differently. As early as 2004, Derzkom actually took over the entry function at that part that had been cadastre at the local level. In rural local councils, land books, books on the registration of leases, and books on the registration of State acts were taken. In fact, this work is being done today in areas. In addition, you and I passed the Real Estate Registration Act in 2003, and so on, where we gave the cadastral function to the body, the central authority of land resources and their authorities in place. And that's why we didn't want to change the concept today, and we put it, just like it is, in this law. And we can't now go back to giving the cadastral function to the local authorities. Imagine today, they don't have computers, they don't have one base, they don't have landowners, they don't have any money. And so today what is formed, even if it is not right, it is simply to be developed. This law removes some inaccuracies, shortcomings. And we think that the cadastre does have a government central authority on land issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u185	Dear colleagues, your honor, we have a situation, I think I understand. Since April 2007, we have the President's veto for this law. By not taking into account constitutional regulations and all kinds of work, we blocked essentially the existence in Ukraine of the Law on State Land cadastre. So there is now a proposal by the committee, essentially the amendments made by the committee, that there are no objections. We need to determine: either we have this new edition already, or we open up the possibility of introducing a new project that will be approved by the Supreme Council and become effective. I am voting on the adoption of the entire draft Law on State Land Cadastre in a new edition, formulated by the Profile Committee after the elaboration of the comments of the President of Ukraine. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:58:26]] For-162 The decision is not taken. The law has been revoked. There is a strong request for a profile committee to have a new draft law in Ukraine that will pass the entire parliamentary procedure and become effective as soon as possible. Thanks for the job.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u186	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u187	Dear colleagues, the Law of Ukraine “On Disposal of Lands. And I'm sorry, we have a request to reposition two projects because the reporter is about to receive additional materials. It is announced before the Ukrainian Law on the All-Ukrainian Referendum, with proposals by the President of Ukraine, registration number 1374. Reported Deputy Head of the Ukrainian Presidential Secretariat, Stavniychuk Marina Ivanovna. Please, Marina Ivanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u188	Dear Chairman of the Supreme Council, distinguished national deputies! Ladies and gentlemen, please attend the meeting. Ukraine's Supreme Council adopted on 5 June 2009 The Act on the All-Ukrainian Referendum cannot be signed by the President of Ukraine on such grounds. The law “On the All-Ukrainian Referendum” defines that the higher form of direct democracy is the referendum itself, and this cannot be accepted because, according to article 69 of the Constitution, all forms of direct democracy, including elections, referendums are not qualified or divided as higher or lower. In accordance with the law, any question may be the subject of an all-U.S. referendum, except for those whose referendum is not permitted under the Constitution. In determining the subject of the U.S. referendum, the law does not take into account that the Constitution of Ukraine enshrines the principle of the integrity of human rights and freedoms. Moreover, the adoption of the law does not take into account the legal position of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, in which there can be no referendum on the national initiative and its subject matter. The issue of mistrust of any constitutional authority of the State cannot be included in its subject. Moreover, from the constitutional principles of the division of state authority in Ukraine into legislative, executive, and judicial matters, it follows that a referendum cannot be held on issues of law enforcement. And what is more, there are such grounds and limitations in the law that are valid for all-U.S. and local referendums. They call for denial and regulation of other restrictions on the holding of all-U.S. referendums, particularly the temporary inability to hold elections and referendums at the same time. This does not correspond to part two, article 22, part two, of article 64 of the Constitution of Ukraine, does not conform, respectively, to articles 156, 157 of the Basic Law. Part three of article 106 of the law imposes restrictions on the number of issues that may arise in the U.S. referendum, providing only one question that can be raised in one referendum. Then, a further restriction is also proposed by law, which is considered in comparison with the applicable legislation. The bill that came for signature to the President of Ukraine also proposed to regulate the holding of an all-U.S. referendum on the approval of the new Ukrainian Constitution. However, a number of violations of the Basic Law of the State are allowed. By the law that came upon the signature, relying on Parliament, in particular the additional mandate to appoint an all-U.S. referendum on the approval of a new constitution, does not correspond to the basic law of the State, as well as to the number of decisions of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. In addition, the law that came to be signed contains a number of norms that establish a new order for the implementation of the right of legislative initiative in the Supreme Council of Ukraine when amending the Constitution of Ukraine determine how Parliament works. In particular, there are requirements for the number of votes of Ukrainian national deputies needed to take decisions by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The resolution of these issues in the law does not correspond to the Constitution of Ukraine, which clearly defines the comprehensive list of subjects of the right to legislative initiative, the specificities of its implementation. It has been established that the working order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is established by the Constitution and by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It is pointed out that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopts laws, regulations and other acts, most of them from the constitutional composition, except those directly provided for in the Constitution of Ukraine. Nor can we agree with the proposed legal procedure for the appointment and establishment of the results of the All-U.S. referendum on change in Ukraine. The law provides for a mechanism whereby the decision of the All-U.S. referendum on the bill of ratification of the international treaty is further approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This approach is not consistent with the Constitution, since article 73 of the Basic Law clearly states that the issue of change of territory is decided solely by the All-Ukrainian referendum. Furthermore, according to the Constitutional Court’s rulings on the exercise of power by the people and on the adoption of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine in a referendum, the results of the national will are mandatory. The decision of the All-Ukrainian referendum on the adoption of laws is always final and does not require approval or approval by the Supreme Council of Ukraine or by any other State authorities. It calls for a note and the legal mechanism for declaring the All-U.S. referendum a national initiative. The introduction by law of a more stringent requirement to hold assemblies to form an initial group of all-U.S. referendums makes it impossible to initiate an all-U.S. referendum in rural settlements with fewer than 500 voters. Disagreement of the provisions of the law in part of the regulation of the Institute of Initiative Groups, their number, may make it impossible at all to comply with the requirements of part two of article 72 of the Constitution of Ukraine. Under the law that came upon the signature, the President of Ukraine is obliged to declare the All - Ukrainian referendum a national initiative. This does not take into account the legal position expressed in the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine in the case of the President of Ukraine declaring the All-U.S. referendum a national initiative, whereby only if the requirements laid down in article 72 of the Ukrainian Constitution are met, the President is obliged to declare such a referendum. The legal mechanism for financing the preparation and holding of the U.S. referendum is also flawed. In this regard, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Ukraine’s distinguished national deputies, also denies the adoption of this law. The provisions of the law on the organization, conduct and establishment of the results of the All-U.S. referendum are also noteworthy. Nor can the provisions of the law, which determine the legal consequences of the all - Ukrainian referendum, particularly article 38 of the law, be supported, among the legal consequences of the U.S. referendum, in particular the obligation to consider its results by the state authorities whose competence is to make decisions. So the President of Ukraine sees such an approach as unacceptable, since under the Basic Law of the State a referendum is a method of national will, the results of the national will obtained through elections and referendum are mandatory, and the Constitutional Court of Ukraine has also repeatedly stressed. The law also requires meaningful elaboration with a view to copying basic European democratic standards for the holding of all-Ukrainian referendums. This includes the implementation of the requirements set by the Venice Commission for questions or the question raised by the U.S. referendum. The law requires substantial technical and legal processing in order to bring its text into line with the requirements of the legislative technique. The terms used in the law are not consistent with the terminology of other legislation in Ukraine. This list of comments is far from complete. Under these circumstances, the President of Ukraine proposes to reject the Ukrainian Act on the All-Ukrainian Referendum, such as one that does not comply with the Constitution of Ukraine, does not provide adequate legal guarantees for the exercise of the national will, the implementation of the constitutional right of citizens to participate in all-Ukrainian referendums, and does not take into account the basic European democratic standards for holding referendums. The position of the President of Ukraine is fully supported by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, as evidenced by a letter from the government proposing by the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Yulia Timoshenko, on the rejection of the Law on the All-Ukrainian Referendum, as one that does not correspond to the Constitution of Ukraine. In addition, the proposal of the Head of State to reject the law has also been supported by the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. Please, honourable national MPs, support the position of the Head of State and reject the Ukrainian Act on the All-Ukrainian Referendum in the future, to further develop its position, since it is clear that Ukraine needs a new Law on the All-Ukrainian Referendum. But one that would preserve and protect the constitutional rights of Ukrainian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u189	Thank you, Maria Ivanovna. Any questions for the reporter? None. Please, have a seat. The report by Podgorny Sergey Petrovich. Please, National Deputy Bodnar Olga Borisovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u190	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! On 2 November 2009, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government, commissioned by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, reviewed the Ukrainian Law on the All-Ukrainian Referendum with proposals by the President of Ukraine. The President of Ukraine comments on the bill, which was adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on June 5, 2009, and suggests rejecting it as one that does not comply with the Constitution of Ukraine, does not provide adequate legal guarantees for the exercise of national will, and the implementation of the constitutional rights of citizens to participate in all-Ukrainian referendums. According to the general conclusion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Expert Office, it is appropriate to agree with the President of Ukraine's general proposal to reject the Ukrainian Act on the All-Ukrainian Referendum at its re-examination. The Committee adopted the conclusion by a majority of the votes at the Ukrainian National Deputies meeting to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the basis of a review of the Ukrainian Law on the All-Ukrainian Referendum to accept the President's proposals and to reject the law as a whole. [[Proposals by the President of Ukraine]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u191	Thank you, Olga Borisovna. Is there a question for a co-conspirator? None. Thank you. Have a seat, please. Is there a need to discuss matters? None. I am voting on a proposal by the President of Ukraine supported by a profile committee to repeal the All-Ukrainian Referendum Act. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:10:51]] For-38 The decision is not taken. I am voting for a proposal to defeat the President's veto on Ukraine's All-Ukrainian Referendum Act. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:11:19]] For 155 The decision is not taken. Veto's not overtaken. The law has been revoked. The Ukrainian Act on Land Disposal, Other Real Estate Objects, which are located in private property, for social needs, or for reasons of social necessity, is now under review. [[Registration number 3682]] Says Marina Ivanovna Stavniczuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u192	Honorable Chairman of the Supreme Council! Honorable National Deputies and Presence! While upholding the need for legal, organizational, financial, and social property rights to be determined in the process of depriving land and other immovable property for social or social reasons, the President of Ukraine believes that it is established in the law that is currently under consideration by the Supreme Council, the concept of resolving the issue does not create a real mechanism for the protection of the rights of the private owner, nor does it ensure that the constitutional principle of the integrity of private property rights is respected. According to the concept of law, executive authorities have the right to redeem land and other immovable property held and owned by natural or legal persons. This sets out a list of social needs for which the authorities concerned have the right to decide on the ransom of the specified objects. The decision taken and the determination of, inter alia, the terms of the ransom, the land and other immovable property that can be provided instead of redeemed are reported in writing by the owner of the immovable property that is being redeemed. In the event of a failure to obtain a one - year agreement between the landowner or other immovable property with the purchase of these objects for social purposes, the objects listed may be forcibly alienated to state or municipal property on grounds of social necessity on the basis of a court’s decision to appeal to the executive or local government. It's being introduced. Thus, there is an order whereby, in the absence of a voluntary agreement by the owner to redeem the land or other immovable property of the private owner, in most cases the owner will be deprived of the right to such property. At that. This will also be facilitated by a vague distinction between the concepts: firstly, “social necessity”; secondly, “social need”. In doing so, the social necessity or social need of the law will determine the body that has taken the appropriate decision, and on the basis of rather uncertain criteria, such as “application of an optimal option, taking into account economic, technological, social, environmental and other factors”. By the law that came upon the signature, if the need for the use of the repurchased forcible alienated property had fallen away, the authority that had decided to ransom or forcible alienation of land or other immovable property that had been placed on it had been informed within a month of the date on which the decision was to be made, the previous owner or his heir reported. These items may be purchased by the previous owner at the price set when such items are returned to their property. In no way is it settled who, as will determine that the need for the use of the purchased forced alienated property has fallen away, how should the appropriate authority be aware that such a need has fallen. Moreover, if the owner does not, within a six - year period, disclose his desire to buy back his or her property, the appropriate authority of the executive or the local authority shall have the right to sell to another person or to give up his or her property to another person. The law creates conditions for different practical approaches at the expense of forced alienated private property. And since it is possible to compensate for the estranged objects, both in the size of the ransom price and in the previous full compensation, only the value of the land, other immovable property on which it is placed, in cash, is not taken into account by the owner of the damage. With regard to the legal possibility of confirming compensation for the value of alienated property in the form of a state registration of property for immovable property given instead of alienated property. Because, for example, if you define an apartment as an option to compensate for the registration of property, it does not always mean that the apartment is transferred simultaneously to the person concerned. The apartment can be built for a while. It should also be stressed that the scope of the rights of owners is substantially reduced in the event of a ransom or, well, the compulsory alienation of land provided for by this law, the changes in the provisions of the Ukrainian Civil Code that regulate the issue of the redemption of land in connection with social necessity, according to the owner’s consent or the court’s decision. The analysis of these changes compared to the valid standards shows the exclusion from the Civil Code of guarantees of the rights of the owner, such as the inclusion in the purchase price of the land of market value of the land and the immovable property on which it is situated, the possibility of transferring, at the request of the owner, the land of the residence, other buildings, buildings, plantations placed on the property subject to redemption, and their reconstruction, if not possible. The right of the person whose ownership has ceased to be required to grant him another, equivalent to the quality of the land within a given inhabited area. Thus, the legal order for the alienation of property to a private owner would lead to violations of the fundamental principles enshrined in the Constitution of Ukraine regarding the protection by the State of the rights of all property subjects, the guarantee of ownership of land. It's important. All of this also provides grounds for concluding that the redemption of forced alienation offered under the pretext of a social need for a scheme of exclusion from the private owner of the most attractive land, other immovable property for the further transfer of such property to others, the creation of a basis for abuse in dealing with the issue of redemption, redemption, the forced alienation of land by private owners. This position of head of state is reinforced by a number of legal positions, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, in particular the case of the permanent use of land, the decision of the Constitutional Court in the case of unemployment relief, the unemployment of the parties. Taking into account what has been said, the President of Ukraine, despite the fact that this has been introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, proposes the Ukrainian Law on the Alienation of Lands, Other Real Estate Objects, which are placed on them, which are privately owned for social purposes or on grounds of social necessity to be rejected, such as that which does not guarantee, in the course of the decision, the issue of the real protection of the rights of the private owner, the maintenance of constitutional guarantees, the right to private property and is open to lobbyism. Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, please support the position of the Head of State with regard to the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u193	Thank you, Marina Ivanovna. Any questions for the reporter? None. Please sit down. == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u194	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! In examining the entire proposal of the President of Ukraine, it is important to note that there are no compelling grounds in these proposals for recognition of this law in such a way that it violates the Constitution of Ukraine in part relating to the protection of human rights and citizens. Instead, the law is based on the relevant provisions of the Constitution of Ukraine and other legislative acts governing relations related to the alienation of land and other immovable property objects on which they are located for social purposes. This does not go unnoticed by the protection of the interests of owners whose property is alienated for social reasons. The law introduces a principle whereby a purchased or forced alien land cannot be transferred to the use or ownership of a natural or legal person for purposes unrelated to the provision of social needs or social necessity as defined in the decision of the public authorities or the local self - government authority on the alienation of the specified land. This should guarantee that the alienation of land for social needs does not become a means of violating the legitimate interests of owners, depriving them of their own property by manipulating social needs or motives for social necessity. This fact is confirmed by the findings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. Such disagreements in the President's remarks with the text of the law can be traced throughout the text of the proposals, so the position of the President of Ukraine on such an important issue for the State is completely misunderstood. Considering that this law is extremely important for the development of the Ukrainian economy, relevant and necessary, as evidenced by the facts faced by the authorities in the resolution of the situation, when for many years the issue of the construction of the bridge in Kiev and the large Ring Road around the capital is not addressed, due to the lack of free areas to accommodate such social and important objects, this is linked to the social privatization of agricultural land and the mass uncontrolled transfer of significant land-uses, especially beyond the boundaries of populated areas to the property of natural persons. The same is true of companies that have received a special permit for the use of beneficial fossils of public value at auction, paying a considerable amount of money and not being able to carry out mining activities. And there are countless such examples. In view of the above-mentioned committee, he suggests recommending that the Supreme Council of Ukraine beat the President's veto to the stated law of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u195	Thank you, Valery Fedorovich. Is there a question for a co-conspirator? There's a question. Please, National Deputy Carmazin. The question to the coconspirator.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u196	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin. Regrettably, many of the suggestions made by the President were in those amendments that were rejected by the committee, which I have expressed. You pick them up and you'll see. The committee then rejected them just so completely, and I was saying that we should look at the difference between social necessity and social need, that we are simply confusing and attacking the constitutional rights of citizens. So if you didn't see that we should count or change, let's say, part 2 of article 15 of the law that writes our expert board now and says, we screamed, we told you. The legal authorities wrote, and there were observations on several pages. Do you think that's how you have to bend your knee to overcome the veto, or maybe compromise with the President, with his apparatus, because they have the right points, many of them. Not all of them, I do not agree with everyone now, as they have been said, but many do.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u197	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u198	Dear Yuri Anatolyevich, your remarks, you know, were accepted only partially, most of them rejected. Because the observation of the principle is a completely balanced bill. If there is no concept of social necessity in the Constitution, there is only one. This does not mean that the concept is not in the land code. That's why we've divided these two notions: "social necessity" and "social needs" into two, and we've completely settled this bill. The bill fully complies with the Constitution and human rights. Therefore, all of these general statements are that human rights are being violated, and the President did not specify in any of his observations exactly where human rights are being violated. Hence, we feel that his comments are powerless.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u199	No more questions? Thank you. Have a seat, please. I am voting on the proposal of the President of Ukraine to reject the Ukrainian Law on the Alienation of Lands, Other Real Estate Objects, which contain private property for social purposes. [[Registration number 3682]] I'd like to make a statement. [[13:26:22]] For-42 The President's proposal is not supported. I am voting on the proposal of a professional committee recommended by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to overcome the veto of the President of Ukraine on the Ukrainian Act on the alienation of land, other immovable property that they have, which is privately owned, for social purposes or for reasons of social necessity. [[Registration number 3682]] Please vote. [[13:27:07]] For 285 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 117, "Club of Timoshenko" – 144, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" – 2, Communists – 0, "Club of Lithuania" – 19, non-fractional – 3. National MP Stishenko proposes to return to the vote. The proposal of the People’s Deputy Steshenko to return to the position of the Supreme Council is based on the vote. [[13:28:01]] For 298 We're back on the subject. Accordingly, in accordance with the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I am voting on the proposal of a professional committee to overcome the veto of the President of Ukraine on the Ukrainian Act on the Alienation of Lands, Other Real Estate Objects, which are located on them, which are privately owned, for social purposes or for reasons of social necessity, please identify. [[Registration number 2682]] [[13:28:55]] For 326 Decision taken. The President's veto is over. It is announced for consideration by the Ukrainian Law “To Change Certain Ukrainian Laws With Proposals by the President of Ukraine. Reported Deputy Head of the Ukrainian Presidential Secretariat, Stavniychuk Marina Ivanovna. Please, Marina Ivanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u200	Honorable chairman of the Supreme Council, distinguished national deputies and present at the meeting! The President's Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts was also signed by the Supreme Council in May 2009. [[on anti-trafficking]] The law provides for a substantial increase in criminal responsibility for receiving bribes on a large and particularly large scale. It is suggested that a basic penalty of 10 to 15 years be imposed in the form of a deprivation of liberty. By supporting measures aimed at overcoming such a shameful phenomenon as corruption, one of which is bribery, the President of Ukraine disagrees with the proposed legal approach to resolving the issues. Thus, changes to the scope of articles 371, 372, 375 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, which provide for criminal responsibility for knowingly unlawful detention, prescribing, or keeping in custody, attracting a knowingly innocent to criminal liability, ordering a judge, or judges knowingly unjust punishment, decisions, approvals, or decrees, are proposed to establish such a hallmark of known crimes as acts combined with the receiving of bribes in a large or particularly large scale. In doing so, appropriate actions combined with receiving bribes on a particularly large scale provide for an unalterable sanction in the form of permanent deprivation of liberty and confiscation of property. Such proposals cannot be supported by the President of Ukraine, since under the Basic Law the State of Ukraine is a state of law. And as the Constitutional Court of Ukraine noted, in the decision to impose a more mild sentence on the court, the rule of law is the rule of law in society. The rule of law requires the State to put it into law enforcement and enforcement, particularly in laws, the concept of justice. A separate measure of justice is highlighted in the decision of the Constitutional Court, the question of the appropriateness of the punishment of a crime committed. The category of justice foresees punishment for a crime that punishment for a crime should be a reasonable crime. This means not only that the legal pattern of crime and the framework of punishment will correspond to each other but also that the punishment must be in a fair relationship with the gravity and circumstances of the guilty person. The adequacy of punishment to the extent of the gravity of the crime stems from the principle of the rule of law. In view of this, it should be noted that the approach proposed by the law under consideration today, which, for judges, prosecutors and prosecutors, for obtaining bribes on a particularly large scale, establishes a single type of basic punishment, permanent deprivation of liberty, does not conform to the principle of justice, which is based on the principle of the Constitution of Ukraine, the principle of the rule of law. The establishment of the proposed sanction only for the named category of persons is unacceptable, and given that obtaining bribes, for example by a minister or other person mentioned in article 9 of the Public Service Act, is no less a social hazard than receiving bribes from a judge, prosecutor or investigator. The introduction of permanent deprivation of liberty as an unalterable punishment is contrary to the fundamental position of the criminal code itself, which establishes permanent deprivation of liberty for the commission of particularly serious crimes. And it applies only in cases specifically provided for by the code, if the court does not consider it possible to apply the waiver to a certain term, the court imposes penalties, taking into account the degree of gravity, the person responsible, and the circumstances that soften or burden responsibility. And with regard to the person who committed the crime, the punishment needed to correct it and to warn of new crimes should be imposed. It should be noted that the sanctions for valid articles of the Criminal Code, which provides for such punishment as permanent deprivation of liberty, must contain an alternative form of punishment. In doing so, the approach envisioned by the changes will inevitably result in a state where a person, his life, is recognized as the highest social value for bribes only in the form of permanent deprivation of the will to confiscate property. For example, for the deliberate killing of two or more persons, the use of weapons of mass destruction, if it has caused the death of people, genocide, may be imposed and less severe punishment. The legal provisions that deal with changes make it impossible for both the exercise of the right of a convicted person to mitigate punishment and the possibility of the court to take into account the circumstances that make it easier for him to be punished. Under such circumstances, it should be concluded that the proposed changes conflict with the provisions of part three of article 22 of the Constitution, which is prohibited when amending existing laws to narrow down the content and scope of existing rights and freedoms. It should also be borne in mind that the addition of the provisions of articles 371, 372 and 375 of the Criminal Code to the extent that acts combined with receiving bribes are large, or particularly large, that are a kind of qualifying sign of crime, provided for in article 368, of the Code, does not harmonize with the general position of the Ukrainian Criminal Code, such as articles 33 and 70. Furthermore, the proposal to amend article 368 of the Criminal Code to amend the word “five hundred” to the word “three hundred” which affects the characterization of the crime provided for in that article is also not compatible with other rules of the Code, which provide for the co-existence of measurable damage and the social danger of the crime concerned and are not economically justified. It is also worth noting that the above positions regarding Parliament's adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian Anti-Fraud Laws are maintained by the judiciary. In particular, the Supreme Court of Ukraine, in its reference to the President of Ukraine, points to the need for substantial reform of the law, since in the Supreme Council of Ukraine it is legally unfounded and contains false approaches to resisting the increase in bribery. In view of the foregoing, the President of Ukraine is proposed in article 1 of Chapter I of the Law: paragraph 1 of Subparagraph 2 “b”. Subparagraph "b" first delete, paragraphs 2, 3, 4 delete. Please support the proposals made by the President of Ukraine, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u201	Thank you, Marina Ivanovna. Any questions for the reporter? No questions asked. Please. Any questions? Please, Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u202	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Marina Ivanovna, I believe that the adoption of the previous law without amendment, including some amendments, is wrong. But obviously it must be a science that doesn't have to be given much notice, but only the most important one needs to be given an editorial right away. So please tell me, do you foresee that this bill should be finalized? And specifically, what are the suggestions on this point that you would like to say that we need to work out so that maybe this law stays in the new order? Well, of course, I would like us, when we come up with such serious issues as the President's veto, to not have at least 120 people in the Hall, from 120 to 140 people, because this is an extremely important standard of the Constitution that has to be followed when the veto is over. That's exactly what's happening today. I understand everyone went to the front or the election. But at least.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u203	I fully share your position, the Ukrainian National Deputy, today the veto of the President of Ukraine has just been overtaken by an extremely important issue of protecting the rights of citizens and a half-empty hall over 300 votes of the veto. That's what I think.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u204	Dear Marino Ivanovno, we have a defined procedure for voting the Rules, there are 429 registered deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u205	I'm not raising you. I'm answering the question I was asked. But I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there is no science as to the number of observations made by the President of Ukraine to whether more or less should be taken into account in principle. The President of Ukraine considers that there are as many observations as are needed in view of the content and extent of regulation of a particular law. It is absolutely clear that all the remarks contained in the written position of the President of Ukraine regarding this law have the same weight and cannot be chosen from one more important, less important, in my opinion. The president's remarks are made, they're spoken, including verbally. I would ask Parliament to consider and support the position of the head of state. Indeed, one approach should be applied in the State to officials of the authorities. I, in particular, spoke to the President of Ukraine, pointing to the shortcomings of this legislation, and I also made specific normative proposals.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u206	Any more questions for the reporter? There's no room!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u207	No further questions. Thank you, Marina Ivanovna. Have a seat, please. Correspondence from the committee Yuri Volodymyrovich Prokopchuk
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u208	Yuri Prokopchuk, Timoshenko Yulia Block, Ravenshkina. Dear colleagues! Dear TV setters, radio audiences! On 21 May 2009 the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the Ukrainian Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts. [[on anti-trafficking]] This law provides for a substantial increase in criminal responsibility for receiving bribes on a large and particularly large scale. Thus, it is proposed that the commission of the crime foreseen in article 386 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine should be punishable by a basic penalty of 10 to 15 years of imprisonment. Changes to the scope of articles 371, 372 and 375 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, which provide criminal responsibility for the known?? unlawful detention, incarceration or detention, in the knowledge of the innocent to criminal responsibility, the placement of a judge or a judge, for the knowledge of an unjust verdict, decisions passed or decrees are proposed to establish such a hallmark of known crimes as acts combined with the receiving of bribes in a large or particularly large scale. In doing so, appropriate actions combined with receiving bribes on a particularly large scale provide for an unalterable sanction in the form of permanent deprivation of liberty and confiscation of property. The President of Ukraine supported certain provisions of the law, namely: changes to article 368 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine in the part of increasing criminal responsibility for receiving bribes in a large and particularly large size and deprivation of liberty from 10 to 15 years, as well as amendments to the Ukrainian Amnesty Act on the Inability to apply amnesty to persons convicted of being bribed in a particularly large way, or to persons in a special position of responsibility. At the same time, the President of Ukraine proposes to exclude the amendments to paragraph 1 of Note 368 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code on the recognition of large and particularly large bribes, and articles 371, 372, 375 of the Criminal Code on the imposition of non-alternative punishment in the form of permanent deprivation of liberty, such as those contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine. After examining the proposals, the committee considers it necessary to note that bribery and corruption in the state have become extremely dangerous. Unfortunately, at various levels of executive branch of power, including the administrations headed by the President, have become a real threat to Ukraine's national security. Bribery is especially dangerous, and with regard to the shortcomings that have already been listed: the ordering of convictions, the ordering of criminal prosecutions, when innocent people today take up sentences for those who have paid and who are walking freely today those who have committed criminal offences. This ultimately undermines people's confidence in power, which is extremely dangerous in the face of a long-term economic social crisis when it is necessary to maximize the consolidation of power efforts and the efficient use of all available assets and assets. Therefore, at its meeting on 17 June 2009, the Committee adopted a decision on the basis of part seven of article 135 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, recommending that the Supreme Council of Ukraine reject all proposals by the President of Ukraine and approve the Act “On amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine against bribery” as a whole. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u209	Is there a question for Yuri Volodymyrovich? There's a question. Please sign in. Please, Grigorovich Lilia Stepanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u210	Lilia Grigorovich, group “For Ukraine!”, “Our Ukraine”. Please tell me that you finally gave a summary and so boldly announced that the committee had considered and decided to reject all the President's proposals. You're going to say today from this rostrum that all the President's proposals are to the detriment that it's not this country's president or maybe that he's considering these proposals, not this country. Something doesn't happen. Please explain to me and to me in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u211	Thank you. I'm going to explain to you, and I'm going to explain to all the Ukrainian people and to all the colleagues who are sitting in the hall. By the way, there were only four proposals. And they were all directed instead of a real fight against bribery and corruption, so that there could be those today who had false diplomas and sat down, as they say, the President's secretariats, who were then sent to the ER to rehabilitate and where they were expelled, so that no such people would be in the President's Secretariat, not in any other institution. And they took these diplomas in exactly the way they gave bribes. That's why we're saying that we need to go over the veto and put all the definitions in the Ukrainian Criminal Code into order, as they say. And this is especially true of the prosecution, the judges, all those involved, including those involved in making such decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u212	Gricenko Anatoly Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u213	Dear reporters, it is clear that the fish rots from their heads, purging it from their tails. The head was determined -- the president took the side of the carnivores, and he decided to support them by making a commitment to the bill. You've rightly said that bribery and corruption have become a threat to national security, paralysed the entire state car, all the branches of government. Parliament voted twice: 362 and 364. I'm going to the Regional Party. Their key position now depends on whether there will be a parliament. whether he will confirm his willingness to really fight corruption, whether he will take the side of President and Svaric. I'd like you to let me know what the committee vote was like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u214	The committee made a unanimous decision. I want to say that to eliminate the politicalization of this issue at all, because when everyone goes somewhere, well, who goes to elections, who goes away, everyone fights corruption in words, bribes. I think it's now going to be a demonstration of one's good will, or these populism statements. Because now they're going back to the people, they're going to tell me how they're fighting. So I don't think you need to politicize this issue. And you have to make a decision so that it doesn't go well and we don't have cooks, there aren't any other visions and stuff. That's why we need to beat the President's veto. It's a law that's meant to make things tough, yes, but order in the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u215	Bondarenko Volodymir Dmitrovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u216	Vladimir Bondarenko, "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko", the “Reforms and Orders” party. Dear Mr. Reporter! Of course, this law is an extremely sharp weapon both against bribery and, God forbid, against those who have been coerced or otherwise subjected to such punishment because of our not always fair judgment. So I would like to pay attention first of all to the fact that today the head of state is actually allowing for appropriate forms of bribery, which outside look not exactly like bribery. For example, handing out orders and medals that are hundreds and already have bets on how much to pay, and the heroes have become extremely fertile. And those who are truly heroes may not get this reward for years. Or, for example, such action as land distribution in Kiev. I already told you. The Attorney General's Office has received over 60 plots of land. This is a form of bribery from local authorities for not being noticed. The same land survey began to take place in Kiev. Will this law oppose it or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u217	Of course, every law has, as it were, certain improvements. Today, the category is taken directly by those who make illegal decisions in public authorities or in law enforcement or judicial authorities. Of course, we need to improve and be kept in the future, as they say, a legislative basis for any t-officer who is in places that may decide the fate of the people or fate of Ukraine, including through receiving bribes of non-verbals, we will speak as you say, rewards so that he can be brought to criminal responsibility without the right to take office for eternity as well. I completely agree with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u218	Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u219	The honourable rapporteur, please tell us why the President vetoed the Bill on the One Bill to Combat the Epidemic, why the President vetoed the Law, which establishes a moratorium on the rise in drug prices, why the President opposes the fight against corruption, has vetoed why Mrs. Timoshenko has vetoed a bill that she refuses to accept on the rise of socio-standards, thus spitting into the soul of the people? Why is the orange power in the face of Yushchenko and Timoshenko, the orange twins, brother and sister, hammish toward their own people and spit into the soul of the people? When will this stop? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u220	Although it's not relevant to this bill, but I want to say that perhaps the political bribe of the President's Party of Regions is giving him the opportunity to create these things that we've put together for medicine today, and he's not signing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u221	Have a seat, please. Yuri Volodymyrovich, please sit down. Everyone who wants to ask a question has been asked. Let us turn to the proposals of the President of Ukraine. The proposal by the President of Ukraine number 1 from the comparative table to delete the second paragraph of article 1, paragraph 1, of section I, of the law is put to the vote. Please identify yourself. [[13:51:17]] For-49 The President's proposal is not supported. The second sentence of the President of Ukraine is put to the vote “Article 1, paragraph 2, of Chapter I, delete”. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:51:45]] For-23 The offer is not supported. The third sentence of the President of Ukraine is voted on – article 1, paragraph 3, of the Section I to exclude the law. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:52:12]] For -14 The President's proposal is not supported. The fourth sentence of the President of Ukraine is article 1, paragraph 4, of the Act. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:52:38]] For -14 The President's proposal is not supported. All the President's proposals are under consideration. The proposal of the committee to overcome the veto of the President of Ukraine is put to the vote on the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Anti-Fraud Laws. [[Registration number 3428]] I'd like to make a statement. [[13:53:16]] For 213 The veto is not over; the law is overruled. The factions, please. Region Party 19, Timoshenko Yulia Block - 134, Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense - 12, Communists - 27, Litvina Block - 19, non-fractional - 2. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Act on Amendments and Recognition of Changes and Recognitions, which have ceased to be valid, some Ukrainian legislative acts in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Civil Code, is under review. Reported by Popov Igor Volodymyrovich, Deputy Head of the Secretary of the Ukrainian President. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u222	Honourable Chairman, Honourable People's Deputies of Ukraine! On 21 May 2009, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the Ukrainian Act “On Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Change and Recognition of Certain Legislative Acts in connection with the Adoption of the Civil Code”. Yes, the proposed amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Amendments and Recognition, which have lost the validity of certain legislative acts of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of the Civil Code of Ukraine, provide that limited liability societies created before the act becomes effective should not be subject to the provisions of part two of article 50 of the second chapter of the Ukrainian Law on Economic Societies, according to which the maximum number of members of limited liability societies cannot exceed 10 persons. According to the President of Ukraine, this law cannot be signed. I would like to remind you that the adoption of the Civil Code of Ukraine and the corresponding amendments to Ukraine’s legislative acts have laid the groundwork for creating a transparent legal field for the functioning of agricultural societies and the protection of the rights of their participants. The most investment-friendly form of business is equity companies. Today, legislation is in place to ensure transparency of their activities and investment. In particular, shareholders should publish information on the results of activities, transactions with their securities are controlled by a government regulator who also oversees compliance with legislation in this area. This allows you to create a more transparent and open business environment. Therefore, the local amendment to the Law on Economic Societies means that we are trying to abandon the logic of reforming relations in this area. If this is true, there is a need to systematically change legislation rather than make local changes. To implement Ukraine's Amendment and Recognition Act, law-abiding entrepreneurs in companies with limited responsibilities, with more than 10 participants, have reorganized their businesses in stock companies by June 2008, and others have not yet done so. Almost a year after the deadline for law enforcement, it is proposed that it be acknowledged that it is optional to comply with its requirements. Thus, legal nihilism is justified in society. In fact, the law proposes to divide societies with limited responsibility into two groups. Some of them should have less than 10 participants and statutory capital – 10 minimum wages and others – unlimited numbers of participants and statutory capital on the same scale. Then the law does not comply with article 13 of the Constitution, under which all property rights are equal before the law, and so the limitation of the maximum number of members of limited liability societies should apply to all limited liability societies regardless of their date of formation. Secondly, the President's proposals are aimed at protecting the economic interests of citizens, owners of limited-liability societies. Yes, among limited liability societies with more than 1 million members, there is a significant proportion of more than 10 founders. According to current legislation, the statutory capital of limited liability societies is 100 minimum wages. While the minimum statutory capital of shareholders is equal to 120 minimum wages. So in order to turn a society with limited liability into a shareholder society, the founders-partners have to increase the statutory capital by 1150 minimum wage. In the absence of an opportunity to increase statutory capital, particularly because of the lack of funds, a limited liability society should be eliminated, causing economic losses to the country by mass liquidation of controlled entities created in the form of limited liability societies. With a view to taking into account the interests of citizens in unreserved compliance with laws and the Constitution of Ukraine, the President proposes that if there is a need to increase statutory capital, in view of the transformation of society with limited liability to shareholders, allow such legal persons to make statutory capital for five years. Therefore, the President of Ukraine proposes a review of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Amendments and Recognition of Changes and Recognitions, which have become invalid, some legislative acts of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of the Civil Code of Ukraine, taking into account these observations and proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u223	Thank you. Any questions for the reporter? None. Please sit down. Wait a minute, there's a question. We continue for 15 minutes. Please, National Deputy Gordienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u224	Sergey Gordienko, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Poltation. Dear reporter! Please tell me, ten members of the founders of a limited society, do you think this violates the constitutional rights of citizens? If we have decided 12, 13, 15, why can’t we? Next. Does the law have reverse power, tell everyone in Ukraine? And the last. Do you not think that today we need, if we follow the logic of your President, it will lead to the collapse of many of the very societies that are working successfully today, giving jobs. And would that lead to a redistribution of ownership in the situation?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u225	Once again, I would like to point out that the President is in favour of ensuring that the rules of the game are stable, constant and equal for all operators. If, in fact, more than ten people want to be founders of society, they can form an open - minded society. If this is a limited - liability society, then the law must be the same as for newly formed societies and for those who existed before the amendments to the Ukrainian Civil Code. Accordingly, this is the main ideology of the President's proposals.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u226	Any more questions? The Blackmore People's Deputies, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u227	Alexander Chernomorov, faction of Party of Regions. I'll give you an example, a few entrepreneurs, 20 people allowed, set up an economic society and leased their facility for their own investment and restructuring. According to your thoughts, they are not allowed to do so, and you are better off having your uncle come and buy them all and make them the best of the company. Similarly, the villagers you are so concerned about cannot unite more than ten people and create a collective enterprise. Thus, the President is today against entrepreneurs, forcing them to adopt a certain institutional and legal form and against peasants who could develop their own economies. I call on everyone to vote as we wish, but please answer my questions as to how this is acceptable.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u228	I understand that claims should not be addressed to the President, but to the Supreme Council, which has adopted appropriate amendments to the Ukrainian Civil Code. In this case, we're only talking about exclusion, a special regime for individual enterprises. The very rule that a limited - liability society could not exceed ten persons was adopted a few years ago, in fact, in the Supreme Council of Ukraine and this standard of action. And now we're not talking about looking at this norm, we're just talking about some exceptions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u229	Any more questions? Have a seat, please. A report by Alexander Viačeslavovich Slobodan, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u230	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, honourable members of the people, I would like to recall briefly the essence of this bill. There have just been reports that in its time the Supreme Council has adopted amendments to the Law on Economic Society and has limited the number of founders to ten. I want to remind you that in Ukraine 1 million 186,000 companies with limited responsibility, especially many of these agricultural societies. About one third of Ukraine’s agrofirms carry this form of society with limited liability. And the ten - man restrictions on founders usually lead to major problems, take the same agrofirms, they are often often deprived of legal escorts. In addition, the transformation of a limited - liability society over a year by shareholders requires an increase in statutory capital to one thousand and 250 minimum. Of course, there are very often no such funds in association with limited liability. And this rule of law is virtually impossible to comply with. The Economic Policy Committee concluded that the law does not violate article 13 of the Constitution of Ukraine, according to Igor Volodymyrovich Popov. And if these proposals are accepted, the situation of active enterprises will not improve. Taking this into account, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the proposal of the President of Ukraine to reject.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m0.u231	Is there a question for a co-conspirator? No questions asked. Please have a seat. Let's go to the President's proposal, it's set out here in one proposal, in a comparative table. Please open a comparison table. The President of Ukraine's proposal is for a vote, please identify yourself. [[14:04:50]] For-9 The President's proposal is not supported. The proposal for a professional committee to overcome the veto of the President of Ukraine is put to the vote on the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Change and Recognition of Persons Who Have Fallen in Action, some legislative acts of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of the Civil Code of Ukraine. [[Registration number 2081]] I'd like to make a statement. [[14:05:31]] For 197 The decision is not taken, the law is repealed. The morning plenary session was declared closed. At 4 p.m., the evening plenary will begin.
