ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for your registration. Yeah, ready to register? Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:50]] There were 422 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is an outstanding event — a professional festival of lawyers, a Lawyer's Day. Let us welcome all legal professionals, including national deputies, and the desire to serve faithfully in good health. [[Applause]] Dear National Deputies! As a result of a number of proposals for the suspension of consultations have already been proposed, I ask each faction to express its position on the schedule of meetings for the fourth time, as we will organize today’s meeting. Please, Mikola Martinenko. Start with the right flank, go left. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m0.u2	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Head! Dear colleagues! I remind you, yesterday's Conciliation Board meeting, that we've come up with a decision that we're going to start work today on personnel issues that don't need to be added to the agenda. There are draft regulations, there are arrangements inside the hall, let's vote them, don't guess who's going to vote for who or who's going to be voted down or who's going to be put down. So I ask the procedure to put these questions to the vote now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m0.u3	Thank you. Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko, BUT faction, then Oleg Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m0.u4	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I support a proposal that just came out of our colleague Mikolia Martinenko's mouth. Vladimir Mikhailovich, you held the Conciliation Council yesterday, where it was clearly agreed that today begins with the consideration of personnel issues that do not require delivery to the agenda. Moreover, the issue that stands first, the presentation of the draft budget, it's not a review of the law, it's a slightly different procedure. Information and review of the law, a break in the consideration of the law, are other rules of procedure. That's why we insist on the faction today, and we unanimously decided to vote -- to appeal to the Supreme Council leadership to implement the arrangements that took place yesterday at the Conciliation Council -- to start the process of dealing with personnel issues, then to move on to the next issues of the agenda. We've unlocked the job, we welcome everyone, let's work hard.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m0.u5	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m0.u6	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The Lithuanian ‘Block’ faction has always adhered to, adhered to, and adhered to the principle that all institutions of power should perform their functions. If it is a function of a number of ministries in the Cabinet of Ministers to carry out state policy in this area, these ministries should be led by professional people who have to do so. If there is a function in Parliament to approve, that is, to make decisions on one or the other personnel proposals, it is a function of Parliament. We're standing, I want to emphasize once again, in this position, that the tension, which is something like this in the morning in the session room, has to be removed into the working room, into the workplace, into specific decisions, into specific proposals and into concrete results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m0.u7	Thank you. Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov, faction of the Party of the Regions
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m0.u8	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! I think our further work should be consistent with some basic logic. It is worth a day's work on the 2010 budget issue. In order to determine the position of every MP in the room under this document, we must answer the first question: the bill that we voted on in the first reading, the increase in the minimum wage and minimum pensions, whether it will be voted on in the second reading before the budget is adopted, and whether the 2010 budget will be established on new social standards or still they want to deceive us again and drag us into the budget process without changing the third consecutive year social standards. Second question. We would like to know on what basis the Cabinet of Ministers, in violation of the Constitution, decides.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m0.u9	Give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m0.u10	On what grounds does the Cabinet of Ministers, in violation of the Constitution, decide, in the face of Timoshenko, to prohibit teachers from speaking in schools in the language in which they think. I believe that such discrimination and humiliation are not permitted in any State. We really confirm that every day we talk about the dictatorship that is going on.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m0.u11	Thank you. Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, position of the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m0.u12	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! It seems to me that we settled these issues when we met at the Conciliation Board yesterday. But since we now see new circumstances emerging, it may be appropriate to hold the Conciliation Council once again to clarify all the nuances. Because obviously, on the one hand, it's like we're already in the budget process, that's like we can't interrupt the consideration of the budget issue, because we discussed it yesterday, today's sequel. On the other hand, there was an agreement yesterday that a staff meeting would begin today. Since there is no unity in the session room, I propose that I announce a certain recess for consultations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m0.u13	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we exchanged. May I have your attention, please? We exchanged thoughts. I would like to inform you once again that yesterday, during the Conciliation Board meeting, a decision was made that we will consider the first human resources issues on Thursday. At the same time, we have a certain conflict in which we claim that we are in the process of dealing with one issue, namely, the presentation of the state budget. Despite the fact that this does not come directly out of the budget code, from the Supreme Council Rules, we each have our own way of dealing with this problem, that is, we have two approaches. And if it is a good will to move immediately to human resources issues, if there is a need for us to remove any contradictions, the Supreme Council of Ukraine can resolve this issue by voting. We could put to the vote that we are now moving on to personnel issues. And the third proposal is now to hold another session of the Conciliation Council. Valery Bondick, is that why you're here? Well, please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m0.u14	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, indeed, the festival of lawyers, let us offer such legal logical sylogism. Let's start with personnel issues, but with personnel issues regarding the election and release of judges. And that comes out completely of the government's budget policy. Because many judges work, get paid, and their powers are over. On our committee, 36 decisions have already been made. And so as a compromise, I asked you to consider the question of the election and release of judges, and then to move in the order of the day. And another thing, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I was in the constituency yesterday, and I was approached by the military, perhaps for that reason, by the honourable General Kirichenko, the Chief of Genstab, resigned. Why? Because our guarantor, you know, he probably likes bees, but he doesn't like children. On October 17, he takes children from all corners of Ukraine to celebrate the Mazepa Museum for the acceptance of a solemn oath. The UNESCO Convention prohibits the taking of an oath, but the children are brought even from Sevastopol, from the Air Force. I was approached by the military and asked.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m0.u15	Sergey Sass, we're going to sweat acid, and we're going to figure it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m0.u16	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! I would like to draw your attention and attention to the provisions of article 20, in particular part 4 of paragraph 4 of the Rules, which states: “In the order of the Supreme Council of the day, there shall be in turn no vote, namely.” Paragraph 4, “The question of the making of an oath, the question of the appointment, the election, the dismissal, the granting of an appointment and the release from office of persons whose consideration is the exclusive right of the Supreme Council”. So let us follow the rule. As far as budgeting is concerned, it's a separate issue. And the Budget Code does not define what it is. and the Rules do not stipulate that it is being considered in turn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m0.u17	Thank you. Vasil Kiselov, Peter Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m0.u18	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! For three months now, in the order of the day’s session, it has been a matter of creating a temporary commission of inquiry on illegal construction in Simferopol. This question can be resolved in 30 seconds, but it doesn't always come to a vote. Colleague Sas did not read that the issue of the creation of TSK was included without a vote in the agenda. I'm asking the Conciliation Council to convince a colleague to ask this question and vote because as long as we decide whether to vote or not, Simferopol is still building, and no one can stop this building. So I very much ask you to convince a colleague and put this to a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m0.u19	Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, Communist faction
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m0.u20	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! Indeed, we need to respect the agreements that are being reached. But there's one nuance. When the Conciliation Board decided yesterday to start a staff meeting today. On the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Peter Prashenko was not yet present with a report from the National Bank. It's like someone who doesn't like it, but it's already part of the beginning of the review of the state budget of Ukraine. And we have to pay attention to that. So Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk made a very appropriate suggestion that perhaps the faction leaders should be gathered together and that this situation should be clarified again. What's more, in the agenda for today, the first question is the State Budget 2010 project. I think we need to get the faction leaders together and renegotiate this situation and make the right decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m0.u21	Thank you. Dear colleagues! At the request of two factions, the BUT factions and our Ukraine-National Self-Defense factions, I announce a break of 30 minutes, up to 10 hours 45 minutes. Faction leaders are requested to meet immediately, I would stress, in the office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine so that we can find out our positions definitively. Welcome, fellow officers, to the meeting.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m0.u22	Dear colleagues, please take up your jobs. Dear colleagues, there was a meeting of the Conciliation Council. In the process of debate, this was the case. With proposals, namely, to consider now: the presentation of the draft Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2010; then to consider the staffing issues: discharge, appointment and assignment; I am referring to the submission of the President of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Then consider the question of appointment and dismissal of judges. I emphasize that today, on Jurist Day, we have a large group of people waiting for a long-standing decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This is a proposal, that is, according to the schedule of meetings. At the same time, two factions — the faction of the Party of the Regions and the Company of Ukraine — are considered necessary under the Supreme Council Rules and require a 30-minute recess to be announced. I have such an offer, dear colleagues. Let's do it this way. By meeting the rule of law, and at 11.45 we will start the budget and work without a break until we consider budgetary and personnel issues, including the appointment and release of judges. Is there no objection? Then, at the request of two factions, the factions of the Party of the Region and the faction of the Company of Ukraine, a break of up to 11 hours is announced 45 minutes. But we agreed that after that we would continue our work without blocking.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m0.u23	Dear colleagues, please take up your jobs. I beg you then. Is there a need for the factions that took a break, for what purpose? Will you be performing? Who? Aren't you going to perform? Well, you've announced a break, so maybe you should announce for what purpose. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, after our coalition colleagues -- the BUT factions and our Ukraine -- have taken a break and have suggested that we today actually change the working order of the session room to one that we did not agree on or approve, of course, that we should have consulted our faction. That's why we took the same break. What was the situation? We have begun consideration of the budgetary process. It was suggested that the budget process should be discontinued and that another issue should be considered: the staffing issue. We suggested that we continue to address all the issues agreed upon on Monday on the Conciliation Council and which did not raise any objections to us. Our colleagues offered to break up, start considering personnel issues and then move on to the agenda. We could not agree with this situation because we believe that the most important issue for the State today is the adoption of social standards and the creation of a new budget for 2010 on the basis of the new social standards approved. And that information that we have received, if it is indeed confirmed, if not, you will deny it, that now the Deputy Prime Minister has finally given the command to join the Cabinet of Ministers to consider minimum wage parameters and minimum subsistence minimum, we approve of it. If we eventually agree here and come to an agreed position, I think we'll have less contradiction here in the hall. Ultimately, if we change the agenda and include human resources issues in it, I understand that everything is in line with the budget, but given the severity of the issue, then, Vladimir Mihajlovich, I would like you to put to the vote the changes that are envisaged in today's consideration. And according to the agreement that has recently been reached, let us know how we can continue to work today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m0.u25	Dear colleagues, the consultations have been held. The proposal is supported and there's a general understanding that we're working on a schedule for today. So we need to look at the issues, the honourable colleagues, the presentation of the budget, the discussion and the decision, the personnel issues and the appointment and the dismissal of the judges. That's how we're going to work. Dear colleagues, no objection? In view of the factions we require: the factions "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" and the BUT, and then the faction of the Party of the Regions and the factions of the Communists, I've had a break, and I've got a request from you, my honourable colleagues, that we don't take a break at 12 o'clock. I ask you to support this proposal, to vote on it, to make changes to the Rules -- and to work until 12:30, we will have the opportunity to hear the report. Well, please, I'll put it to a vote, well, they don't vote, so no. Come on. I'm asking you to mobilize and vote. People's deputies, please, take your seats! I am voting on the proposal that the Supreme Council of Ukraine work without interruption for up to 12 hours for 30 minutes, and then we will continue our consideration of the issue of budget submission. Please vote. [[11:52:10]] For 196 Dear colleagues, I've made a deal with you, but we have to work. [[B in m in s a l in]] We didn't make it? Who's in favour of going back to that question, please vote. [[11:52:38]] For 211 The decision is not taken. For the faction, please. Well, I can't bet anymore if you don't want to. Region Party - 1, Yulia Block Timoshenko - 153, Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense - 36, Communists - 0, Block of Lithuania - 20, non-fractional - 1. Then I'll call it a 12-hour break. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, we're about to start the report. We'll be out of here in 12 hours, 25 minutes. And we'll start hearing a report from the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m0.u26	Dear colleagues, we continue our work. We agreed to work in this way: we're looking at budget issues, we're moving 16 hours to deal with issues about judges. I would ask the judges to be understanding of this matter. And the footage. Well, I am. We're looking at the budget right now. Well, people are here, so what? Shall we look at the judges now? Or what? [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, please! Now we're going to break this fragile agreement that exists. I just got off the phone with a representative of the Cabinet of Ministers. and the head of the Justice Committee. I just want to say again, well, we're going to break the deal we had. Announced before. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, we made a deal, we made a decision! Please! And I apologize to the judges. But let's do it now. What's more, look at the session room. Dear colleagues, please! Come on. It is announced for consideration: presentation to the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the draft Law on the State Budget of Ukraine 2010. A report by the Deputy Finance Minister of Ukraine, Anatolia Ivanovich, in 20 minutes, answers to the rapporteur's question - up to 10 minutes, discussion. Presentations by representatives of the deputy factions and the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for up to 3 minutes to 90 minutes. Making a decision. Is there no objection? Dear colleagues, we have made a difficult deal on this subject, and now there will be a process of opposition again. Please! Well, I'd like that. Once again, I ask the judges to understand what is being offered. I'd ask them to take a break, and we'll consider their questions, sorry. This is the decision and the Conciliation Council, which was voted here in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please, Anatoly Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m0.u27	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! In accordance with the requirements of the Constitution and the Budget Code, a draft budget for 2010 was submitted to the Supreme Council on 15 September. He was approved by the Cabinet of Ministers on 12.09, and there was already an appropriate representation of the general public in the Ukrainian House, as well as the materials available on the Ukrainian Ministry of Finance's website, as well as the draft law published in the “Governmental courier”. That is, all the formal procedures and technical calculations, the justifications required by the Budget Code, were submitted in due time to the Supreme Council and the Budget Committee. I would like to say that the 2010 budget was based on government-approved projected macroeconomic indicators. And you see that one of the main indicators is the growth of the economy next year by 3.7 percent. So we see that next year, economic activity is going to start to rise, and this is how we can ensure that nominal GDP increases to one 178.6 billion dollars. In addition, we predicted that December’s consumer prices would rise to 9.7 percent by December. And the real wage increase is 3 percent, which makes it possible to ensure that real economic growth and real wages are adequate. With regard to specific government budget balances, it should be noted that the revenue plus the repayment of loans is 289.3 billion dollars, the State budget spending is 336 dollars, and the government budget deficit is 46.7 billion dollars, or 3.97 percent of GDP. Local budgets are completely balanced without deficits. Regarding the structure of the deficit, it must be said that for the next year, the sources of the deficit are set at 36.7 for external and domestic borrowings and 10 billion for privatisation. In particular, the State Budget Act defines the amount of money to be spent on the capitalization of the banking system as 50 billion dollars. These are the funds that will be allocated for the release of government securities. Income from the budget. For the overall performance of this indicator, we use analytical materials, and we see that in the following year the total budget is going to increase by 16.7 percent, and this amount is going to be $359.4 billion, and including the total budget fund will increase to 278 billion dollars or an increase against the 2009 plan 17.8 percent. In terms of revenue, the State Budget, where inter-budget transfers are used for recalculation of funds from the city of Kiev, amounts to 278.3 billion dollars for the general special fund or 20.7 percent increase. So we see that the revenue of the state and local budgets has essentially an adequate amount of growth. And what I'd like to say is that in 2010 GDP is going to be 30.5 percent, i.e. the level of GDP redistribution through the budget. This corresponds to the statistics that have been compiled over the past few years, namely that in 2008 this level of redistribution was 31.4 percent. In 2007, the figure was 30.5 percent. This demonstrates the realisticity of the budget in terms of the macro-predictions approved by the Cabinet of Ministers. In terms of revenue growth by principal administrators, the state tax administration's increase to the general fund of the state budget is 11.8 percent, and the State Customs rate is 2.2 percent. And that's what the structure is. is a characteristic or representation of the structure of our macro-indicators, such as export and import indicators for the following year. As for revenue at one of the key indicators, these are local budget revenues, and next year this forecast is increasing by 12.5 percent, and I would like to compare this figure with an increase in the general budget of the state budget, which is 17.8 percent. So this information shows that we've applied a conservative scenario to calculate the projected rates of income tax on physics, which are the main source of financial security for local budgets and, accordingly, the payment of wages on the spot. With regard to the income tax rates for enterprises and other sources of the state budget, individual calculations were taken into account and taken into account on each tax basis, on the basis of the appropriate formulas approved by the Minfin order, according to the tax authorities, at the Mineconomy, and were taken into account, in particular by the income tax, the factor that will be included in the next year's complete fourth quarter tax budget, and not as this year: we received in February only last December. [[is an explanatory note]] So, of course, the amount of revenue for this amount is adjusted to a larger extent. In the excise congregation, there are laws that have become effective and, of course, the rate of growth is much higher than under other taxes. With regard to the expenditure portion of the state budget, the budget is tighter, these incomes are increasing adequately, and on average they are increasing by 20 percent. And they're going to make up 410.8 billion dollars in the next year's budget, as you can see on the slide. With regard to the priorities for the use of public and consolidated budget funds, it is particularly important to note that the government has based its support on the real sector of the economy, as value added is being created there. And of course, you can allocate these costs that will come from the real economy to support the social sphere. One priority, therefore, was to provide more financial support for the missile-space sector. And in the cost structure, we see that all the tools and mechanisms that could be used in the next year were used to, as it were, improve the work of this sector and increase the volume of production. With regard to energy conservation projects, this was also one of the priorities in the preparation of the State Budget for the following year. You can see that the amount of money is significantly increased compared to 2009. And compared to the fact that in 2008, this increase took place 10 times and the sum of 3.2 billion dollars. Similarly, one of the priorities was to support financial security and to develop a material and raw base -- 1 billion dollars is planned next year. Which is 57.5 percent higher than the 2009 plan. One of the key elements of the 2010 budget is the resolution of coal problems. The slide shows that the total amount of resources planned to support the coal sector is 21.6 billion dollars. There will also be a settlement of the issue of the debt of coal companies to the Pension Fund. We were asked yesterday how we would settle this. So that's what the bill provides for. And I think we're in debt. It's going to be an adequate amount to pay off this debt to companies that extract coal from the Pension Fund and the Pension Fund from the budget. You can also see that there will be adequate guarantees for companies that are involved in the development of coal and construction. The expenditure on housing-communal reform is also projected to increase significantly in the following year. It should also be borne in mind that part of the resource is released from local budgets, which can also be directed towards supporting infrastructure in the communal sphere. And also for the construction and repair of utility roads. I'll say it a little bit later. Expenditure on road development will increase by 38.9 percent next year compared to this year. And plus that, it's planned to continue the practice of providing guarantees for roadside loans. As far as preparation is concerned. In fact, this is in the context of preparations for the Euro-12 Championship, and it is planned to significantly increase the amount of resources for airport modernisation. You see, this is almost three and a half times the cost. Costs will be used on the basis of a stabilising fund that will be filled by privatisation, that 10 billion dollars that I've presented before, and coming from borrowing. With regard to support for the agrarian sector, direct funding from the state budget is planned to increase by 1.6 billion dollars next year. In addition, I would like to say that in the past and this year a number of laws have been adopted that reduce taxes in the APC and in the whole of the resource that will remain in the producers from not paying taxes, we're predicting 12.1 billion dollars. Thus, 24.7 billion dollars will be allocated to the APC in all its support efforts. I'd like to make a separate stop in the planning and use of the Agrarian Fund. You know, in 2008, at the end of the year, we added 2 billion dollars to this Agrarian Fund. Today, expenditure on the Agrarian Fund has actually been spent for 3 billion dollars in 8 months on, as it were, revolving funding. And next year, we're planning that traffic in forward and forward purchasing interventions can be 3.4 billion dollars. As for the use of the stabilisation fund as an element of anti-crisis economic support, it is important to say that all or most, or about 95 percent, of the production programs or programs that are used to support the real economy sector that are concentrated in the stabilisation fund and in the table you can see the corresponding directions, I don't want to add to that, but one figure this year is the amount of the stable fund -- 20 billion dollars -- next year it's almost 27 billion -- that is, a significant increase in this funding. With regard to the Euro-2012 expenditure, it should be added that, in addition to the expenditure that will be directly implemented from the State budget, it is also planned to include local budgets for this purpose, in total, we are forecasting 12.3 billion dollars, the left-hand side of them, namely, that 10.1 billion dollars will be the cost of the state budget itself. [[next slide]] Moreover, in order to support the real economy, it is planned to increase the volume of State guarantees by 2010. It's, by the way, a global practice where government guarantees are provided, and it's going to be 45 billion dollars. Of these, only four are specified in the law; others are not written and will be. such guarantees will be financed according to the methodology and approved projects. I would like to mark some, as it were, innovations in the 2010 budget that can make up, as it were, the innovation component of the budget. We see that there's a principle of a proposal for using the funds of a stabilising fund on a pivotal basis or in a way that increases government assets. This will allow you to create this fund and it will be used for a long term period. In addition, it is envisaged, for the first time, in the Budget Act, that all major budget managers of the following year should develop programmes to reform the relevant sectors, with a need for 10 percent of the expenditure projected in the budget for structural reforms. In addition, in the following year, an article that provides for at least 30 percent of the net profit to the founders, if this is the Founding State, will be given the State, if this is the major shareholders, so they are obliged, an enterprise, to account for these dividends and to pay next year. As far as social and cultural spending is concerned, one of the main elements is in the social standards budget. One is the minimum wage. And you can see on the slide that next year, at the end of the year, it's going to be 778 dollars at the minimum wage. So compared to December of this year, the increase is 16.3 percent. This is also an adequate growth in economic opportunities. The second social standard we set for 2010 is the minimum of living. And one kind of living minimum is the minimum for working citizens. [[can be seen on the slide]] We see that it's increasing by 9.7 percent, i.e. at the level of the projected consumer price index, which will ensure that citizens' real incomes are saved. In addition, a decision was taken on the proposal of the National Tripartite Socio-Economic Council, which took place on 14 September with the participation of the Prime Minister of Ukraine to establish a minimum wage of 6 per cent as of December 2010. I'd like to go back to the last slide of the 35, and you can see clearly on this slide how the only tariff grid that's going to go up is going to go up because the tariff grid is going to be tied to it. The first-level tariff grid at the minimum wage level is profitable, and the net itself is still being applied, and this will ensure an increase of 142.7 percent in the first-level rate. There will be a corresponding increase in salaries in all categories of budgeters. Furthermore, according to Ukrainian law, for the first time in the budget of the tenth year, it is proposed that the minimum wage be taken into account on an hourly basis. And on the slide, you can see exactly how it's going to change, which is going to be able to protect those workers who work on time, not at full cost. As a result of all the actions related to the change in basic social parameters, the result is that the wage fund in the budget area will increase by 19.1 percent and will amount to 19.4 billion dollars. Similarly, education costs will increase by 117.5 percent. I would like to pay particular attention to the component of such an increase in education. It's going to form, and there's 2 billion bracelets that are designed to make allowances for teachers at a school of 15 percent. In addition, we took into account the following year’s extra - school spending formula. [[it's the first time it's been done.]] In this way, the State assumes financial obligations to ensure the functioning of extra - school education. In addition, 321 million pennies were taken into account to maintain preschool facilities in rural areas, allowing additional coverage of preschool children in the following year, in addition to the normative indicators used in the formula. Similarly, I would like to say that as in education, there is an increase in funding for health care, and one element of such an increase is the introduction of a doctoral allowance. [[For the first time, by the way, also]] Depending on the size of the internship, such allowances will vary, ranging from 10 to 30 percent of the official salary. For this purpose, 2.7 billion dollars are already included in the budget. In addition, medicine is anticipated.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m0.u28	Anatoly Ivanovich, how much time do you need?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m0.u29	Another five minutes, I think.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m0.u30	No objections?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m0.u31	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m0.u32	Thank you. In addition, there are increasing centralized programs for the treatment of cardiovascular and vascular diseases, you see on the slide. Also for treatment of cancer patients by 113.3 percent. [[next slide]] Moreover, science, like all other sectors, is expected to have an increase in expenditure -- 116.7 per cent; we are planning to increase expenditure by 131.5 per cent to culture and, in fact, the amount of expenditure is going to increase by 1.8 times against 2007. As a result of this increase, 389 million dollars are projected to pay higher wages to librarians and club professionals in the form of material relief. In addition, 300 million dollars are foreseen to restore the activities of cultural institutions in villages in which they have been closed in recent years. In terms of spending on sports, youth and family programs, the following year, you see, the rate of growth corresponds to the average growth under the budget. I would like to draw attention to this very controversial topic of reforming local budgets. The slide shows that this year we had a relationship – a government budget with 691 subjects, and next year we plan to expand such relationships to 12,000 32 budgets. The calculations have been made, and there has been a very large and difficult work done to reconcile these figures. We also anticipate a reserve of 300 million dollars for further improvement of these relationships, and this reserve in the budget for the following year is foreseen, which will be allocated to the second reading among the local budgets according to appropriate formulas that will be consistent with local self-government. This slide also shows how much the resources of local budgets and components are increasing: the structure of this increase. I would like to say that in the materials that we gave to the two national MPs in the volume, most of these slides, of course, and there was a way to get to know the details. I'd like to say that plus these growth rates, we think from the Stability Fund, 10.7 billion dollars, or from 27 to 10.7 billion dollars, will directly relate to the financing of local budgets. And local self - government agencies will be responsible for such funds. Other slides also have decryption in every position of changing the relationship between government and local budgets. In general, the budgets of villages, villages and cities of district importance, where we propose reforms, total additional resources amount to $12.1 billion. And according to the figures provided in the code, which, unfortunately, is dedicated by the President today, such an additional resource is 7.3 billion dollars. Literally a few more words about the characteristics of local budgets. In general, the consumption of local budgets in the consolidated budget, taking into account the funds to be used by the Stabilisation Fund, as well as the funds that are centralized but allocated according to the draft law’s addenda, is about 49 percent. So we're almost getting close to that indicator that shows parity between central power and local self-government. Well, I'd also like one slide of 68 to be shown. On this slide, we see that the grant of local budgets increases by 57.2% against 2009. So if we transfer resources to certain local budgets, or central budgets, or, let's say, to other budgets.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m0.u33	Yes, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m0.u34	So this is how we transfer resources, that is, sources, this niche will fill in alignment grants. Thus, the 2010 budget is completely balanced. And we are ready to work with the Supreme Council in accordance with the requirements of the Budget Code for the preparation of proposals for first reading, as required by the budget code, according to the timetable set out in the budget code, the first reading is due to take place on 20 October of this year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m0.u35	Thank you, Anatoly Ivanovich. Please register with the Deputy Minister of Finance. Kosov Michal Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m0.u36	Mikhailo Kosov, faction of the Yulia Block Timoshenko, Party “Reforms and Orders”. Dear Anatoly Ivanovich, we have been listening to your highly professional reports for the third day, which even marked our opposition colleagues. I would like to make this very clear to you, our colleagues generals, in particular General Petruk, a member of the BUTU faction, have estimated that more than 19 billion dollars are needed for the needs of the Ukrainian Armed Forces for the next year. Meanwhile, that budget project you're proposing has only 8 billion planned. Are you ready, or are you ready for the Cabinet of Ministers to work with us to find an opportunity, and it is absolutely necessary, and increase funding for the army at least twice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m0.u37	Thank you for asking. Then I want to get a couple of digits. The cost of the Ministry of Defence will amount to nearly 14 billion dollars next year. And the expenses. This together, the general and special fund, against the 2009 plan, means an increase of 1.4 billion dollars. Plan – 12.6. In general, the cost of defence and security, if combined and from all sources, will be 37.8 billion dollars or a growth of 3.5 billion dollars against the ninth year. And, of course, we're ready to consider all the proposals that will come from the people's deputies in order to, of course, calculate from the point of view of the Mini-Defense in order, if possible, to increase funding.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m0.u38	Turmanov Viktor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m0.u39	Dear Anatoly Ivanovich, well, your practice has shown that you have been in government for the second year and in general, the Government. You're painting like artists today. In particular, I want to tell you that you've drawn this figure today in the coal industry, and the head goes around not only to me, but also to the miners. 21.6 billion gruesome! And what kind of money is that? 4.2 billion, both last year and this year, are pensions to miners. You put them in the budget, but we don't get them, we don't get them. Six and a half billion of you are guaranteed. There were no guarantees at the best of times, and no guarantees would be given to miners. You're sending a billion dollars into the budget, but you have to pay that billion dollars to the energy. You've made your job worse today. You're paying a full salary. Don't pay the pension fund. 2.5 billion you include in the budget of the industry in the tenth year. So they drew 15.6 billion that the industry won't get. We're working 4 million worse this year. Another year of work like this, you'll just destroy the coal industry.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m0.u40	Thank you. Thank you for asking. Yes, I would like to report to the distinguished national MP that Ukraine is in a serious economic crisis today. And you know, the most affected, the most affected industries that have either exports, or they work in those industries that export, specifically for metallurgy. And of course, the coal industry also has some disadvantages at work. You know there's been a decrease in the amount of coal mining. But what I would like to say is that the Mining Act was passed. And of course, this law was to be included in the budget. And we've increased the pension costs of coal miners who get their pension. Besides, I've already said there's a problem with coal. It accumulates at warehouses more than the limit needed to provide the winter heating period. So when we realize this coal from the warehouses, we're going to get an extra one.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m0.u41	Dear colleagues, the question is Tetjan Bachteev. After this discussion has been concluded, I ask you to continue the discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m0.u42	Dear Anatoly Ivanovich, you have so beautifully described the health picture of funding. But you may well understand that reducing the percentage of GDP funding to much worsen the situation than it is. You understand that 3.2 per cent of GDP is less than this year, less than Janukovic in 2007, when the percentage reached 3.6 per cent. And you're talking about increased funding for the cardiovascular program. It alone would be 19 per cent of what was needed. That is, 81 percent of patients should die. Speak up, please, it's open. And your salary increase will be 70 bracelets by the end of the year, 2010. Can you explain, please, that a doctor can buy 70 bracelets? A pound of meat and nothing else. Look, please, how you treated the industry.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m0.u43	Thank you for asking. I presented on slides how much spending has gone up in the whole sector and in specific sector programs. And I would like to say that these projections are based on real economic development next year. If we take measures to ensure that the economy develops in real terms, not 3.7 percent, but like China, although 6 percent, of course, there will be additional resources and we will direct them to the budget implementation process, as was the case in 2008, where we made eight, six changes to the budget, aiming at social protection of the socio-cultural sphere.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m0.u44	National Deputy Komar, faction of the Party of the Regions. A microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m0.u45	May I have the floor of Deputy Pecklusenko, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m0.u46	Alexander Pecklusenko, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m0.u47	Dear Anatoly Ivanovich! Tell me, please, only fair and question-specific yes or no. Does the information you provide correspond to the Ukrainian Constitution? Second question. Is the Social Standards Act in conformity? And question three. Is it in conformity with the Budget Code? We are well aware that the budget code, which was adopted by the Supreme Council, is not signed by the President. This may be something that may not be liked, but it is not a law, namely, that unsigned budget code and that is based on your proposals. You must tell the country honestly: there is no money and there will be no money while there is a government. And one last question. Who in the government hates such guards? Why are there no bridges? Who's the author?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m0.u48	Thank you for asking. I would like to say that according to the Constitution there is, in particular, article 43, which determines how district and district budgets should be formed. So this article says that district and district budgets are formed on the basis of public budget funds or funds transferred from local budgets for joint socio-economic programmes. Therefore, the decentralization envisaged in Ukraine’s draft State Budget Act 2010 is entirely in line with the Constitution. Second position. We've prepared a bill, it's not a law yet. So we're ready to look at the constructive proposals of the people's deputies, the factions, the committees, as defined in the Budget Code. In terms of social standards, we've shown that expenditure in general is increasing by 20 percent. In today’s realities, we do not see the possibility of increasing more, that is, twice or three times. I think if we make a 20 percent increase.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m0.u49	Dear colleagues, Svetoslav Olijnik, the faction of the “Blanket of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m0.u50	Dear Anatoly Ivanovich, I have heard from your report that the budget provides for an increase in cultural expenditure to 140 percent if I am not mistaken. Tell me, does this mean that even in these difficult financial crises, however, we can expect the government's efforts to further develop, let's say, the direction of music schools, cultural institutions, cultural groups, first of all, in rural areas, where children are most talented, I think. And I'm asking you to give part of my time to my colleague Antonina Baluri in utility.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m0.u51	Antonina Boloura.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m0.u52	Dear Anatoly Ivanovich, we have studied the draft budget, it is clear that all the necessary parameters have been put in place to support all sectors of the national economy of Ukraine. It's a question like housing and utilities. It seems to me that under the program, under the plans we've been discussing, there's very little cost. Can we assume that this is just the beginning?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m0.u53	Thank you. In fact, we have seriously increased our expenditure on culture and I have already reported on what structural changes we foresee, including library support, club support, and so forth. In addition, music schools are involved in extra - school education, including music schools. We're taking them to finance from the government's actual budget through the grant instrument. PTU was transferred to local budgets. We suggest we do that. With regard to further work on the budget law, including consideration of the issue of increasing expenditure on specific areas, we are ready to work constructively on the budget committee. So I am asked to support the government and ensure that, according to the timetable approved by the Head of the Supreme Council, the preparation of the budget for the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m0.u54	Landik is the last question.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m0.u55	Thank you. Party of regions, Landik. Anatoly Ivanovich, the 2010 budget is set at $7.5. It's over eight miles away today, and I think it'll be even more by the new year, because there's no reason for him to fall. You think, well, the principle of any economist, it's not even very professional to understand that when the dollar is reduced, all the best circumstances are done for importers. And whether the Government thinks and thinks and thinks that they are doing for exporters: how we will sell what we can release, how we think we will get money for it, and how we will deal with our workers, and not have debt on wages and taxes. What does our Government therefore think?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m0.u56	Thank you. Indeed, the government budget was based on an exchange rate of 7.5 dollars. And of course, when we planned these calculations, we took into account all the factors that affect the policy course. In particular, we have approached the conservative scenario of budget deficit. If other countries are planning a deficit of 10.7 percent, the government is offering a budget deficit of 4 percent. Thus, the issue will not be triggered by an increase in national currency, as it were. As far as supporting the real economy is concerned, I would like to say that we anticipate the provision of guarantees for government 45 billion dollars, and the number in the individual sectors that are recorded. Other unscheduled projects. Including these funds can be supported and guaranteed by export-oriented enterprises, which is a world practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m0.u57	Dear colleagues, time is up. I made a mistake. He just jumped over, and there was no Stoiko's last name. So let me ask you one last question to correct a mistake. And that's it, dear fellows. Please go to Stand's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m0.u58	Okay. Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Ivan Stojko, group “For Ukraine! ” Dear reporter, I'd say you're either misreporting or manipulating numbers. Why? First of all, the Budget Code says that in defense of Ukraine, or the Armed Forces -- 3 percent of GDP -- that's 30 billion. Today you're giving not 38, but at the Ministry of Defense at all, you're giving a third of what was meant to be. The total fund is 7.4 billion. I'm special. I'm not saying because he's never here. And so it will only go to those articles that are protected. This means that there is money for energy and utilities. Why? Do you deliberately go to what is said to be the armament of Ukraine, the destruction of the army, and would you survive for a thousand dollars, as today’s surviving, say, officers? I'm not talking about soldiers who don't even have that.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m0.u59	Thank you for asking. I would like to say that the Budget Code does not define the percentage or percentage of the budget distribution, it defines the general criteria, and this is defined in the Sectoral Law, which should be at least 3 percent. In doing so, the Constitution, which is the Basic Law, defines that any income and expenditure is defined in the Budget Act, and that no other regulatory act can plan an expenditure portion. With regard to the specific question that you have asked, I think we can consider it in the context of preparing the budget for the first reading with appropriate calculation and hearings by the Ministry of Defence, as required by the Budget Code at a meeting of the Committee on Budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m0.u60	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we're running out of time. One minute! Dear colleagues, we've taken five minutes, let's move on to the discussion and then there'll be insistence, we'll put it to a vote. Dear colleagues, I beg of you, we have approved the timetable for the consideration of the matter. Sit down, Anatoly Ivanovich. Please, Your Honor, head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Mikola Ivanovich Derkac.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m0.u61	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Respectable Invitations! The submission of the draft State Budget Act 2010 in accordance with the requirements of Article 39 of the Budget Code would take place on 22 September of this year. Yet, for well - known reasons, this has not happened. Such a situation has also affected the consideration of the highlighted issue in the Committee on Budget Issues. Because of the lack of quorum, the committee did not meet three times. Therefore, the Committee on Budget Issues was unable to decide whether the bill was in conformity with the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine and the Budget Code. As far as the bill is concerned, the following should be noted. A preliminary study of the draft Law on the State Budget 2010 and the conclusion of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Expert Office shows that the draft law contains separate provisions that do not comply with the applicable legislation, particularly the rules of the current Budget Code. In particular, the proposed position on inter-budget relations does not correspond to the current budget code, but is largely based on its new edition adopted by the Supreme Council on June 23, this year. However, the prescribed law is not valid because it has been returned by the President of Ukraine with his proposals for reconsideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Therefore, the proposals made by the President of Ukraine for a new edition of the Budget Code with a view to resolving the issue of the validity of such documents would have to be considered in the first reading before considering the draft State Budget Act 2010. Articles 48, 78 and 79 of the draft law on the right of the Cabinet of Ministers to pay more than the authorized amount of government budget are needed. Such provisions do not comply with article 95 of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 23 of the Budget Code, since only the State Budget Act should determine any expenditure of the State on the general needs of size and purpose. The articles and articles 11 and 80 of the draft law allow the government to make over-planned government loans and, accordingly, to adjust the marginal amount of government debt. It also needs to be brought into line with the requirements of article 92 of the Constitution of Ukraine and articles 15 and 16 of the Code of Budgets, since the order of formation and repayment of government debt must be established solely by law, and government borrowings can take place within and under the conditions provided for in the State Budget Act. The innovation proposed by the government to determine the marginal amount of government debt by parts in different currencies does not allow for a clear determination of the total amount of such debt in the gross equivalent, since the forecasts of exchange rates are included in the bill's calculations officially not published. Moreover, the corresponding position is not in line with article 99 of the Ukrainian Constitution, according to which the monetary unit of Ukraine is the bracelet. Paragraphs 47 and 48 of article 6 of the draft law provide for the identification of the sources of the stability fund, part of the value added tax and part of the income tax for enterprises totalling 6.8 billion dollars without defining the criteria under which part of these payments will be included in the special fund. Such positions do not correspond to article 13 of the Budget Code, since the special budget fund should include specific sources of revenue. Some of the State Budget project figures for 2010 are not supported by adequate calculations, particularly in the draft law. First. There is no information on expected implementation of major macroeconomic and social development indicators in the current year, which makes it impossible to assess the reality of such indicators in the 2010 forecast. The other one. There is insufficient information on the calculation of the forecast of revenues over the National Bank's expenditures of 10.5 billion dollars that are not confirmed by Nutzbank and are estimated to be only 695.8 million dollars or 15 times less than the government's forecast. Third. There is no explanation for channelling 50 billion dollars of budget money into bank capitalization. This indicates that the principle of the soundness of the budgetary system as defined in article 7 of the Budget Code is not fully respected, according to which the budget should be based on realistic macro-indicators of the economic and social development of the State, budgeting and budget expenditure based on approved methods and rules. In addition, the draft law contains separate amendments to tax legislation, which first provides for the application of the coefficient to the standards of payment for the use of nadrama, the assembly for special water use, and the collection of geological exploration. Secondly, it is proposed to change the calculation of the adjustment coefficient to the interest rates for oil and gas condensate. It is also proposed that the Oil, Natural Gas, and Gas Condensate Act be suspended. Such provisions do not comply with Articles 1 and 7 of the Tax Scheme Act, according to which amendments to the Taxation Act are made not later than 6 months before the beginning of the new fiscal year and cannot be implemented by the State Budget Act. At the same time, the prohibition of the State Budget Act amending or suspending other laws has been confirmed and the Constitutional Court of 22 May 2008 No 10. With careful and thorough work done by the Committee on Budget Bills, a proper assessment of its positions and indicators, including on balance, will be provided and options will be considered to address the most pressing problems in the next. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m0.u62	Dear colleagues, please sign up for the question. We've got a question mark, five minutes. Names of the national MPs, please. Vladimir Bondarenko, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m0.u63	Dear Mikolo Ivanovich! Every time we meet for a budget committee, we get a very large number of documents that go through the Ministry of Finance to be redistributed by the principal lenders of credit. I think that this practice can be like exclusion, not as a constant process, which suggests, perhaps, the lack of thought about the previous allocation of funds by principals, and I am particularly concerned about the situation in the Ministry, and I've been told a lot about it lately. But I remember when virtually all the funds that were planned for the military were transferred to the food. This completely disarms the army, and all the money goes to those food companies. What do we plan to do, and what is your opinion on this?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m0.u64	Thank you for asking. As far as redistribution is concerned. In my 2008 report to the Cabinet of Ministers on the budget, I noted that, unfortunately, such a system was unacceptable. If the redistribution of the schedule by programme is made, it must be an exception. We've talked to you about this on a number of occasions on the committee, and the Ministry of Finance has done so, and the money managers, first of all, have made such remarks. In future, I think that in planning, on the one hand, both money managers and the Ministry of Finance must be more scrupulous, calculated and predictable in order to ensure that the Committee is not over-expenditureded. Secondly, we cannot analyse and draw conclusions in a timely manner on the effective use of budgetary resources directly by the Ministry or agency concerned. This makes our work difficult. Thank you for asking, it's really very important. With regard to the issue of the Ministry of Defence. I think we have it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m0.u65	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m0.u66	and in subcommittees where work on each loan manager has been initiated and then in the Committee and in the Hall, return to the matter. The question is correct, I support you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m0.u67	Thurmanov National Deputy, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m0.u68	Dear Nikolai Ivanovich, I apologize, but I still have a question for Merkovsky Anatoly Ivanovich. He's got the last word, he's always playing. He wasn't like that two years ago. He's lying today. He's just lying. Once again, Anatoly Ivanovich, we are having a conversation with your Government for the second year: why are you sending four billion 200 million dollars to the industry to make the miners' pensions? You don't have to do this. There's the Pension Fund. It's the Pension Fund's first function. Secondly, you owe this year to local councils because there is a net salary, no tax, about 35 million. These are mining towns where teachers, doctors, and utilities have to pay. Today, you're not just leading to bankruptcy in the coal industry and local self-government. That's why this year I don't know how we're going to live. But what you've drawn for 2010 is only one God knows. The industry is going to die.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m0.u69	So I guess that's the question later. Let's end with a co-reporter first, and finally, honourable colleagues, let's put it this way: when the closing word of the representative of Kabmin is there, then he will answer that question. Anatoly Ivanovich, please write this down. Zinov Skutak.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m0.u70	Mikola Ivanovich, we know you as a good budget expert, and I think that you, as the head of the Committee on Budgets, will not allow such a draft budget for 2010 and such a shameful budget that we have adopted for 2009. Because those who are concerned today about what the army is going through, I just want all of us to know that if 40 dollars today is very much, I would like all of us to try to live on 40 dollars of food. And then we're going to talk about how much this is. But I have a question for you: does the draft budget correspond to the current budget code? And the second question is, do you see the revenue that you can increase? Because these expenses, which are now in a number of fields, are completely out of the reach of the Supreme.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m0.u71	Thank you. It's a very important question. As far as the Ministry of Defence is concerned, I have already responded, but I would like to reiterate that today and from the committee of the Supreme Council concerned there is an appropriate response from the Ministry of Defence. And we will carefully consider with representatives of the Ministry of Finance and representatives of the Government. We're worried about you. And we'll let you know that we'll have it on the way out. With regard to the increase in the income of the budget. Well, if that's the case, let's face it, we know that at least 25 percent of the economy is in the shadows. Therefore, what the Ministry of Finance had previously claimed and all supervisory authorities should implement the programme. And then the budget capacity will be higher, and we will be able to increase, of course. There are such figures, let's say, in the same customs office, that there are still corridors where, say, goods, imports, past customs duties. I mean, we need to work on this. And the next question is also about finding reserves. Each organization, including the budget, should see where possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m0.u72	Vladimir Karpuk, “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m0.u73	Vladimir Karpuk. The parliamentary group “For Ukraine!”, “Our Ukraine”. Dear Mikola Ivanovich, to you as a budget expert. We had the 2008-2009 budget, where we had these optimistic indicators, the people's optimistic messaging was going, the GDP was going up in 2008 -- 6.5 we had executions, we had 2.2 at the level of inflation, we had nominal gross product. Are the indicators given: GDP growth by 3.7 percent, nominal value of 1 trillion 117 billion, consumer price growth rate by 9.7 percent, as you think, are these really, real indicators that match the realities of today's economy? Is this once again an optimistic messaging, and people will lose their wages and pensions for such an unwarranted excess? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m0.u74	The fact that macro-indicators are too optimistic is, to say the least, an unarmed eye. And that was the right thing to do last year, here. But the Cabinet of Ministers thought such calculations were necessary. I believe that the Committee on Economic Policy should consider and assess. In turn, I signed a letter to the Prime Minister to submit the confirmatory calculations. In my statement, I said both on income and expenditure, including on macro indicators. Because today it is impossible to make an expert assessment of the reality of these indicators, as well as, of course, of the revenues, and hence the costs and so forth, very difficult. Too optimistic -- I can say one thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m0.u75	Alexander Lavrinovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m0.u76	Dear Mikola Ivanovich, I have listened to how you have listed how many articles do not correspond to the Constitution, budgetary legislation, tax legislation. Please tell me, how many are the laws of Ukraine that are either being amended or stopped in this draft budget?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m0.u77	So, in my statement, I called what laws are being passed and the Constitutional Court's decision, but at least three, four. I called them, if you've listened carefully, that is, in my report.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m0.u78	The number of laws. Mikhail Ivanovich, I'm not talking about the number of decisions, I'm talking about the number of laws proposed to make changes, or I'm talking about stopping individual laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m0.u79	Six laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m0.u80	Six. I counted four, but there's more than six.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m0.u81	Thank you, Mikolo Ivanovich, time is up. Have a seat, please. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? Please register in this order: statements by members of the MPs, followed by statements from the committees, and then by members of the national parliaments directly. In this order, please record. As we have already voted, it takes us 90 minutes. And there's only one in there, and in the end, you'll report when we discuss our project. Well, obviously so, we agreed. It's a recording. From factions, from committees, and then from deputies. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Vladimir Landik, Oleg Zarubinsky, Arzeviteen, Alexandrovska and Bondarenko In this order. Please. Who will be? Mikola Janovich Azarov, right? Please. Zarubinski will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m0.u82	Respectable. Why three minutes, Vladimir Mikhailovich? From factions to five.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m0.u83	Five minutes from the factions, three minutes from the show. Well, please stop acting out of factions and then three minutes from the committees and from the deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m0.u84	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! I am, as always, primarily addressing the members of the BUT faction and the supporters of this faction to the people's deputies. Of course, the Ministry of Finance has once again demonstrated its high professionalism and ability to carry out the Government's task. It is unfortunate to note that the Ministry of Finance in our country has lost absolute political importance as the main body responsible for the financial stability of our country. And that's what I'm going to have to say. You and I have heard that the budget is balanced. But please tell me, if we put 120 billion sums of loans plus 45 billion guarantees in this budget, will you call me what is a balanced budget or not? If we put almost 1 trillion of our gross domestic product in this budget, provided we have 700 at the end of this year, what is a balanced budget? But most importantly, of course, the budget provides for a reduction in the income of our people. And that's what really bothers me. First of all, this is a reduction in total social standards. For example. The living minimum for children is 737 bracelets in July this year, and the Government determines only 611 bracelets by the end of 2010. Here's an opportunity to ask: Can you live on that kind of money? Without paying each pensioner between 200 and 300 bracelets per month, the Government provides for a pensioner to be given a medicine amounting to approximately 25 bracelets per month. Go to the pharmacy, you won't buy a cow for that money. I could continue to say that the social standards that determine any budget, unfortunately largely, are at such a huge level of revenue, revenue drawn, but social standards could be drawn. Unfortunately, even social standards are too low against what is happening this year. The large number of programmes that we have started has been excluded from the budget and are not planned at all for 2010. They're considered irrelevant, like what? Repair and reconstruction of heat grids and boiler room. Capital repair and upgrading of residential elevators. Subsidy for energy conservation activities, including equipment for engineering inlets for residential dwellings. It was not reflected in the project to prevent accidents and technological disasters in housing and utilities. All of this is considered irrelevant and excluded from the budget. The acquisition of wagons for utility vehicles and so on has also achieved the same proportion. Financing of the coal industry. Unfortunately, I just have to speak in a context. The lion's share of funding, support for the coal industry has been transferred to the stabilization fund, and the programme, which was funded this year from the total, has been transferred to the special fund. In fact, the State advises miners to be financed through the receipt of tax debt from mines, the payment of deferred and deferred payments, and so on. The village. There had been a great deal of discussion about support for the village, but the main part of the Government's spending was on the so-called stabilization fund, whose source was virtually unknown. There's a lot of talk about the return of the population. I wonder how much money is going to be returned to the population next year? It turns out about one percent of what you promised. There is absolutely no time to speak about the problems of local budgets, because, in fact, proposals are completely balanced.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m0.u85	Please finish, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m0.u86	Practically, the budget is trying to balance the entire system and the public and local budget. And, of course, the budget based on non-existent laws must be returned to the Government to demand that, above all, the social standards that we have adopted on first reading and, of course, that it be reviewed on an existing basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m0.u87	Thank you. Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania” faction. The next one will be Arjovitin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m0.u88	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, in recent years, can be said to be fiscal years, there is a controversy between the debaters, as to what to call a budget, depending on who's giving it: either it's a development budget or it's a food budget. If we objectively look at the body of the budget project, we will obviously be honest, it is not a budget for eating. It's hard to say that in a crisis, it was a development budget, but at the very least it's obviously a survival budget. And in this context, without reflecting on all the words of the Law on raising the social standards that have been, I realize that emotions always exist in politics. I would like to remind you once again that the subsistence minimum is not an arbitrary amount, it is set up and should not be determined by subjective desires. The subsistence minimum should be in accordance with Article 1 of the Housing Minimum Act, so a set, minimum food supply, non-food products, and services that provide a minimum level of survival. And that's why I don't think that those parameters of social standards that are put into this budget project are going to implement this first article of the Housing Minimum Act. This is objective and you cannot disagree, for it is clear that the price of both food and nonfood and the basket of services, I emphasize, has increased significantly during 2009. And so it doesn't increase the minimum wage and, accordingly, the minimum of living, and the minimum wage accordingly, it doesn't allow it to say that it can become a survival budget. This is necessary for tens of millions of Ukrainian citizens. The obvious question, and it's in any country when the budget is adopted, the executive is trying to save -- it's right to have some reserve to manage. The legislative authorities are trying to find those cracks, find those reserves and resources that need to be put into the budget. [[Sorry about that word.]] In this context, I cannot help but say two things: the first is a budget project for the maintenance of the Ukrainian President's Institute in 2010 along with the famous Dusei 1 billion 600 million dollars. [[State Administration]] Is that a lot or a little bit? Let me put it this way: at Kuchma, 525 million dollars were allocated for the maintenance of the President's Institute, with much greater powers, in accordance with the Constitution. And by the way, that's where the PNB was. And by the way, there was a PNB. Now, the PNDP is separate and without PNDP, it's 1 billion 600 million dollars. The question is, Is that right? If at a percentage rate, more of these expenditures in 2010 are planned by budget designers by 30 percent more than in 2009. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask, why? What have the functions increased? What's the question? Here's where to look for money. I'm going to be objective, and I'm going to say that there's also going to be an increase of about 15 to 17 percent in 2010 compared to 2009. Why? In what way should this be done? The Supreme Council has been cut down -- right, a lot of things, you can argue there, but there's been a lot of cuts in maintenance, almost 25 percent. Why such imbalances? And another very specific moment, dear colleagues, we say where to look for money? I'll say, in the current year 2009 alone, due to the lack of transparency of the Ukrainian oil auctions, the budget did not receive at least 4.5 billion dollars. Ask the experts, they'll confirm that figure. I didn't get it. And so even in this particular segment of the budget, I can tell you that sales of oil, not oil, should be made out of oil, only by means of a transparent scheme, not by a criminal scheme that exists, namely, that it's based on an electronic trading system. This has been discussed so many times in the Supreme Council. But it's probably convenient that billions of dollars go into your pocket. So the budget still needs to be seriously worked out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m0.u89	Thank you. Viacheslav Kirilenko from the faction "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense". Alla Alexandrovska will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m0.u90	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “For Ukraine” MP! Dear colleagues, honourable voters, I think that if the Cabinet of Ministers of Budget were important in general, there would be a whole cabinet of Ministers in charge of Prime Minister Yulia Timoshenko, who would not allow me to speak to Merkovska Anatolia Ivanovich, and the mere flame of slides to explain how GDP and other indicators would increase. Since the Prime Minister is gone, the government is gone, so I come out of the fact that everything will be approved at the Cabinet of Ministers by decrees. That is why there is little concern for the government, which will conclude today's consideration of this draft budget. But what the government is offering is very important for the country. Because it points to the priorities that the government has taken on arms in its activities. I remember last year's budget. The group “For Ukraine!” did not vote, although many times it was put to the vote. He won a total of 226 votes. In protest, by the way, against the macro indicators of the budget for this year, Pinzenik resigned. Maybe he didn't say it so loudly, but that's the point. And then everyone saw that macro indicators, which were especially invested in the income part of the budget for this year, were unrealistic and that they could not be implemented right now. I understand the heroic efforts of the Tax Administration now, I understand the efforts of the Customs, but we all know that plans are being moved to the quarter, a quarter later, every month later, to execute the plan for August, for September, for October separately, and if there's a plan after year, then we'll come up with something. And that's exactly what these macros are, and now, they're unrealistic. But I understand that a particular discussion on this subject the government does not want to hear and the mother does not want to hear. We come from the fact that at least we need to look at what the government is actually spending even on such unrealistic macro-indicators. I see a lot of extras and other attractive things for voters. Very well, we always support all of this, everything of a social nature, we support only those cases where everything is done on a government basis through the budget, and it is only for victory in the elections, and it is not planned throughout management. And that's what I think Janukovich's governments and Timoshenko's governments have sinned. But we're concerned about another issue that people are already calling out about, the issue of defence and national security, and I don't understand how the army can exist for 13 billion dollars in total, and the general fund is only 8.5 billion dollars in minimum 30 billion dollars. So we will consciously now sanctify what the military will be sitting on without pay, without food, and without any reason to be defensive. Chief Genstab retired. I don't know the real reasons, but for any country that respects itself it's a very serious case. So I think that Parliament on this issue should take the initiative. The head of parliament proposed a meeting with senior officials, I don't know if all the senior officials would come, probably their affairs, especially since they're all candidates for presidents. But come on, Volodymyr Mihajlovich, even though we listen to the army of those who are now serving the duties of the Chief of General Staff and find out what the reasons for this behavior are, why can't they get from the government at least minimally finance their needs and what threats to national security and defence? Because, for example, the Ukrainian community in Sevastopol directly states that the Black Sea fleet of Russia has turned serious activity. He has already identified on operational maps road links: Sevastopol - Yalta - Feodosia; Sevastopol - Simferopol - Feodosia; and he even looks at all the concrete basements that Russian military experts believe can be used by the Ukrainian side as support points, according to the officially registered “Ukrainian Society of Sevastopol”. Well, let's see if that's true or not true. And here, I think 90 percent of the statesmen do sit independent of language and religion. Perhaps 10 percent of the deputies would like Ukraine to fall as a state, but 90 percent as a “pro”. I ask that deputies from all factions pay attention to this. Next. Foreign activity. 45,000 dollars for the development of diplomatic representation and the expansion of the Ukrainian property network abroad. And the embassies in Montenegro, Ethiopia, and elsewhere are closing. So, are we deliberately putting such a government policy of failure in the defence sphere and in the foreign policy direction? Then the question arises as to the priorities of such a government? And I also take the whole “For Ukraine!” MP group very seriously. Until we get an answer to these questions, we won't vote. The budget is to be sent for processing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m0.u91	Thank you. Honorable colleagues, right away, about the speech and suggestions made by Viacheslav Kirilenko. I ask the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on National Security and Defence to study this issue, and if there is a need to prepare proposals for the Supreme Council to hear separately the state of the Armed Forces and the situation in our diplomatic power. Because the first and second institutions are completely destroyed. I'd like to prepare a written assignment. Alla Alexandrovska, Communist faction. Volodimir Dmitrovitch Bondarenko, a faction of the "Julia Tymoshenko Block".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m0.u92	Dear colleagues, the question already raised in this room was why there is no Prime Minister, why there is no Government in addressing such a critical issue as the allegation, will revert to the adoption of the 2010 budget. But I think we understand why. The draft budget for 2010 proposed by the Government was so unrealistic, so demonstrated by the Government's flagrant adventure and the Prime Minister, which, of course, does not wish to report in person to the Prime Minister. There were already questions in this room: how do you consider this budget to be a food budget or a survival budget? It is understandable, therefore, that it is not a development budget, even on the basis of the report that we have heard. But he can't budget a meal for one simple reason that he won't eat anything, because the income part is unrealistic, and we've already talked to you about it today. It is impossible to say that this will be a survival either, because, as this budget suggests, it is not possible to live either. Not financing the budget, social programmes, health, education and so on and so forth will force the withdrawal of money from the pockets of the poor people by the budgetary organizations allowed to do so today. That's why people today say, you can't live like this. But the main paradox proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers of the Ukrainian State Budget for 2010 is that it is based on two budget codes, one legally existing and the other legally non-existent, which in many ways exclude each other. This is the regional picture that's being drawn before us, and the question is, how can it be? The serious problem of the project is also that the violation by the Government of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine is systematic. It's dangerous. Unlawful decisions taken at the highest level of the State inevitably create chaos in their implementation. I am afraid that this fate is expected by the Government's budget. With regard to the substance of the State budget project proposed by the Government of Timoshenko for 2010, it should be noted that it contains the same shortcomings and creates the same problems as the previous Budget Act 2009. Today, with real life experiencing all the problems of the 2009 State budget, which is unjustifiably divided by income and is not sustained by expenditure, it is immediately possible to predict negative developments in all spheres of life of the State if it is adopted in the form in which it is proposed. The Communist faction did not vote in favour of the State budget for 2009 and for the same reasons cannot support the draft State budget proposed by Kabmin for 2010. We cannot accept that Kabmin continues to detract from social standards by ignoring the rules of law that set a certain amount of benefits and benefits for certain categories of citizens: persons with disabilities, veterans, children of war, mothers who are in their custody account today. It should not be forgotten, however, that there was a decision by the Constitutional Court on this issue, but that the Government should not be allowed to ignore that decision. Despite the inflation rate, which is projected to be 16 per cent by the end of the year in Ukraine, the Government has not been able to increase its subsistence minimum by holding it at the October 2008 level. The State budget project for 2010 has increased this critical social figure from 1 January up to 9 bracelets, setting it to 507 bracelets. People ask, “How can we live on this money?” I would like the Government to hear this question. The Communist faction, in its comments to the State Budget project for 2010, proposed an increase in the subsistence minimum. According to our calculations, based on inflation and price increases, the subsistence minimum from 1 January 2010 for incompetent citizens should be 719 bracelets for working children of 973, 800 bracelets for children under 6 years of age, 6 to 18 thousand. Of course, the subsistence minimum according to inflation and price growth should be revised throughout the year. The Communist faction insisted on raising the minimum wage this year, and we demand that this be reflected in the budget for next year. Moreover, we do not agree with article 73 of the draft law, which, contrary to the laws of Ukraine, gives Kabmin the right to determine for himself the amount of social benefits. You know it's going to hurt millions of citizens. The faction of communists in the Government's proposed budget project also sees untapped budget savings. We have also pointed to this in our proposals for a draft budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m0.u93	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m0.u94	We believe that in times of crisis it is necessary to freeze the costs related to the maintenance of the highest echelons of power — the President, the Cabinet of Ministers, the Supreme Council of Ukraine. According to our calculations, at least 250 million bracelets can be saved, and it is all the more necessary to exclude funds from the budget for Ukraine's accession to NATO. Before the referendum on this crucial issue, there was nothing to spend on public money. The list of objectives for which the stabilization fund will be spent raises many questions. Some of them had nothing to do with the crisis, but industry had been left out of the Government's view.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m0.u95	Thank you. Ten seconds, complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m0.u96	Industry, which is strategically important for Ukraine, has been abandoned. The Communist faction insists on the allocation of funds from the State budget next year for the development of such enterprises as Kiev Aviant, Harkovsky HA, Shevchenko plant, Hartziski Trubne, Azostal. The list of these enterprises was approved by a government decree. Here we demand that the Government return to this budget and that it be sent to the Government for further refinement.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m0.u97	Thank you. Vladimir Dmitrovich Bondarenko, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. Dear colleagues, Vladimir Dmitrovitch, one minute. Let's maybe make this suggestion: after the factions have finished speaking, there's a draft decision that the National MP, Alexander Pecklesenko, will report on the draft ruling, and then, after the break, we'll continue speaking from the committees, from the factions. No objections? Well, let's get to work. Then we, if you don't mind, can go on for no more than 15 minutes. After the performance by Vladimir Dmitrovich Bondarenko, the performance by Alexander Pecklusenko followed by a break. No objections? Well, I beg your pardon. Thank you. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m0.u98	Vladimir Bondarenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, “Reforms and Orders”. Dear friends, there were some thoughts here today purely in the black coloring. The point is that there's no budget, not the right budget, and all that. But we've heard these thoughts and these judgements year after year in relation to this budget that we have today. It's from the President, they sound from opposition. But the point is, the budget is worthless, it won't be implemented. Fortunately, or perhaps to someone else, this budget is being implemented. And no pensioner was left without a pension, no teacher was left without a salary, no student was left without a scholarship. So let's just calm down and not paint everything in black, like Janukovich's commercial. I can imagine where he got those shots. Apparently in Donetsk, for in other regions of Ukraine there is not as much dirt and dirt as there is in that advertisement. There are still bright places to mark them. So I'm paying attention first of all to the fact that this budget is unique in some respects. First of all, this is the first time in this budget there is no article on changes to tax laws, for the first time. For the first time, this budget allows 12 with only thousands of rural, rural and urban communities to receive immediate budget rather than wait for it to be calculated in district and district government administrations. I mean, in some macro indicators, it's also a good idea to stop. Although small, but the increase in gross national product shows that Ukraine's economy is still working. Yeah, she fell. Yes, she's having a terrible crisis today, but she's working. And it's a real GDP growth, not like what some people say. And we drew, we know how. I've already mentioned that my analysis shows that the real internal consumption of electricity during the government's period of operation, led by Yanukovic, remained practically at the same level as the previous one, and the GDP growth was at the same time. There's no such thing as: GDP cannot grow without increasing electricity consumption. This was a drawing of GDP growth, due to the fact that VAT was being overwhelmed and paid to its firms. The D.A.'s office should do that. Then I'd like to pay attention to inflation. In black, if you'll excuse me, they were drawing inflation rates that were above 30, and someone was talking, and 50 percent. That's not true. In September of this year inflation was 0.8 percent, with last year and the year after, it was twice as high this month. So the macro-indicators of the budget show that today we're talking about a real document that's drawn up by the government. And you shouldn't draw it in this, really, black and white. Black and gray colors. I note that almost all the issues that blocked this rostrum for almost two months have been resolved in this budget. What's the plan? We're talking about how the salary in 2009 is going to go up, gradually, but it's going to go up, it's not going to be there, and it's going to be there on January 1st of this year. The following year it will increase from 681 bracelets to December 1st to 778 bracelets. I also point out that the vast majority of social orders that have arisen in connection with the challenges of time will be carried out. And in particular, the introduction of new minimum wage levels for budget workers, which will increase by 13.1 billion, increases the pension by 9 billion to families with children and people with disabilities in the Group I, increases the salaries for students in vocational and technical schools by 1.3 billion, increases the provision of military personnel and so on. I want to tell you that there's been a lot of talk here about some areas. Well, in particular, I'm very happy that the aviation industry first got this kind of development. Because the relatives of Yanukovic, who led her “to the pen”, are now being removed and this sector is developing. I'm paying attention to the Ministry of Defense. I don't mind the increase, I'm for the increase, but look, last year the increase took place, and all the money actually turned into food. Because there were companies working there that were involved, and that was the subject of a criminal case. Tell me, why isn't there a minister of defense? Why today the President is not giving the Secretary of Defense, leading the army to the pen, if you'll excuse me, in order for it to be disorganized at all. Think about it, not talk about throwing money there thoughtlessly without knowing who or who will answer for it. I'm also paying attention to the mining sector. Here it was pointed out that it was not money in the field, but pensioners in the past years. Why did you leave them? What should these people not receive today’s pensions, so - called regressive payments? No, it's your business, you drained the last of them and dumped them in the trash today, and the Yulia Timoshenko government is giving them a full pension for the first time today. So I don't even pay attention to that, and I don't pay attention right now, because this budget is the only one, maybe in all the years where attention is given to rural, rural, urban councils. Twelve thousand with extra communities.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m0.u99	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m0.u100	They got the opportunity to finish. And whoever's standing in front of me, and who's sorry, doesn't break the roses, that's not gonna change anything. You don't understand and you'll never understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m0.u101	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? Let's do it this way. There's a draft decision, right? The author of Pecklusenko. We'll listen. Then there will be speeches from committees and from deputies directly to discuss this issue, taking into account the proposal made by the national deputy. Is there no objection? Please, after that, let's call it a break. Please, five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! The discussion of the budget issue includes three elements: the first, the legal component, the second, the economic question, and the third, the political feasibility. I'll stop at the first part and read out my ruling very briefly. The draft Law on the State Budget of Ukraine for 2010 was submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers, registered with the Supreme Council on 15 September, containing provisions that do not comply with the requirements of the Constitution, the law in force. In particular, with regard to the size of public social standards, direct amendments to relevant Ukrainian legislation are envisaged. This is true three times, given the fact that we voted for them this week. Therefore, there are two clear proposals in my ruling: the draft Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2010 to reject and submit to the Cabinet of Ministers for finalization with a view to bringing it into line with the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine and the Budget Code. The Cabinet of Ministers shall, within one week of the entry into force of this order, finalize the draft.” What and who can object to this regulation from a legal point of view? Now let's go back to the economics. Like all of you, by 99 percent, people who are constantly in the districts ask me one question: can you work at least once a month, not arguing with each other, but saying and doing what concerns us voters? And this week has shown us what we can do. We voted with you, it was a law to raise wages, not a separate MP's pension, not a separate political force, it was a law of Ukraine voted by the Supreme Council. And I think I have the right to say thank you to all our constituents who voted in favour of this law. But so that he does not repeat the fate of the Budget Code, we are obliged to set a point in this crucial social project this week. And I'm sure the Supreme Council will. Now, with regard to the so-called budget that we have proposed. My colleague, whom I highly respect on the Committee of Budgets, used a few very subtle expressions: unique. The budget is unique in its insolence and insolence, or, again, it's just a budget adventure. Why do I say that? Because the budget should be based on how you complete the budget year. You and I were trying to figure out how this budget year ends yesterday. Today. When the wallets were shared, there was nowhere to spit in the bed: the minister was sitting. And now there's one and a half people. So are you interested in your wallets or what the people need? [[B in m in s a l in]] Now question two. With regard to economic issues. The budget that will be known cannot be met. Vladimir, when you were speaking, I didn't beat the shit out of you. I said I respect you. Vladimir Mikhailovich, there's a problem, bring the ice heater, otherwise you'll break the man. Second moment. I want to focus on this. There's nothing close to budget in this adventure. Because it's a soap bubble, from start to finish, filled with only one pre-election promise. I would like to say that the voters of Ukraine know that posters have already been printed one month prior to the closure of the rostrum. We have today, even when the budget has not been reviewed, a document to be processed by the Prosecutor's Office and the BSS should be considered - on measures to ensure the implementation of the national budget of Ukraine and the local budgets. The Cabinet of Ministers, that's what we're trying to do, it's all a hoax, he said, "Whoever's standing here, what he didn't say, it's the government not going to accept any budget." There's only one way out of this: the lower government! Hail Ukraine! And real.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m0.u103	Thank you. Matthew Valentin Grigorovich, please. Dear colleagues! I apologize you agreed that Vladimir Mikhailovich announced an extension of 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m0.u104	After the performances. I'm sorry, if so, you'll be the first to speak at the evening session. Dear colleagues! The morning plenary session is closed. At 4 p.m., an evening plenary meeting will begin.
