ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:01:01]] 393 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues! Today is the birthday of Ukrainian national deputies: Kuzmuk Aleksandra Ivanovich, aged 55, and Trinduk Yuri Grigorovich. Let us welcome our colleagues and wish them good health and every success. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in plenary meetings on 16 April 2009. Nine issues of the agenda have been considered. As a result of the review, two laws and 10 regulations were passed, and 1 bill was returned to the committee for the second reading. Two bills were rejected. As a result of the President's proposals, 1 law was rejected, i.e. the President's veto was not overtaken by law. Dear colleagues, two factions: the BUT faction and Our Ukraine – the People's Self-Defense – require a 30-minute break in accordance with the Rules. Perhaps you would agree that I should read the parliamentary questions, and then we were determined as to the application. Is there no objection? Okay. A request was received from the Ukrainian National Deputies: ANDRYA SCHOOL to the President of Ukraine on the abuse by officials of the Ministry of Economics of Ukraine in the area of public procurement. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:03:15]] For 275 Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:03:35]] For 294 Decision taken. Valery of the Writership to the President of Ukraine on the intentions of the President of Ukraine, as outlined in the printed media, in an illegal way, contrary to the constitutional standards in force, to accept amendments to the Constitution. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:04:07]] For 318 Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:04:30]] For 332 Decision taken. John VERNIDOUBOV to the President of Ukraine for the restoration of the violated constitutional rights of the citizens of Sevastopol who do not have citizenship and are therefore unable to receive compensation in the institutions of the Savings Bank of Ukraine. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:05:05]] For 295 Decision taken. OSIKI and Mikhail PAPIJEVA to the President of Ukraine for violations of legislation in the state-owned enterprise International Airport Borispil is voting in favour of the request. Dear colleagues, I apologize. We supported John Vernidubov’s request to the President of Ukraine to restore the violated constitutional rights of Sevastopol residents who have no citizenship and cannot receive compensation in connection with this in the institutions of the Savings Bank of Ukraine. And now we need to put to the vote a request to the President of Ukraine. This proposal is based on a vote. [[10:06:06]] For 315 Decision taken. OSIKI and Mikhail PAPIJEVA to the President of Ukraine for violations of legislation at the state-owned enterprise International Airport Borispil. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:06:33]] For 308. Request supported. A motion for a request to the President of Ukraine is put to the vote. [[10:06:53]] For 311 Decision taken. Mr Gordijenka to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Transport and Communications, Head of the Poltava District State Administration for the unlawful removal of the right to travel free of charge by the pensioners of the city of Kremenchuk Poltavska region in the railway transport of the suburban connection in the direction of Kremenchuk Pavlish and Kremenchuk-Uristowka. Anatolia GRECENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Kyiv City Head, on the illegal decision of the Kyiv City Council concerning the Landscaping Order of the Juków Islands of 22 August 2007 No162/1996, which led to a nine-fold reduction in the reserve area and the granting of land within the contracting authority. Vassila KYSELOVA to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General for the arbitrary construction of the Society with limited responsibility for office, residential and entertainment facilities in Gagarin Park, as well as at Gogol 6, Želábova 23, Kazanska 1, Karl Marxa 4 in Simferopol. Victor KORJA to the Prime Minister on the implementation of the joint decision of the College of the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of the Ukraine on family affairs, youth and sports on the reform of the physical education system of students and students in educational institutions in Ukraine. [[Protocol No. 13/1-2 1011/1 of 11 November 2008]] Mr Vladimir BONDARENKA to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Culture and Sports. Minister of Culture and Tourism of Ukraine, Kiev City Head, on the threat of the destruction of the Literary and Memorial Museum of Paul Tikina in Kiev. Vladimir JAVORISKI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, on criminal and illegal separation and transformation into property of some one thousand hectares [1,000 ha] of land in the Obuchiv region of Kiev. Gennady ZADIRKA to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Attorney-General for the illegal activities of the head of the state-owned enterprise Illíziow Sea Trade Port, Gennady Skvortsov, in particular, providing private organizations with 1.4 million dollars in charity assistance. in December, the destruction of a land area totalling 4.2 ha, the repeated non-payment of dividends to the benefit of the State under joint activities agreements, etc. Mr. Ivana VERNIDUPOVA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the review of the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers decision of 9 January 2008 No1 "On the payment in 2008 to Ukrainian citizens of the loss of money savings invested until 2 January 1992 in the USSR Savings Bank and the USSR State Insurance that operated in Ukraine and in the USSR State Assigned Interested Interest Bonds of 1990, the State Treasury Obligations of the USSR and certificates of the SSR Savings Bank acquired in Ukraine's territory" which contravenes the Ukrainian Constitution and violates the rights of citizens of Sevastopol who do not have Ukrainian citizenship. SERGEY TERRESTUKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the reconstruction of the road bridge and the bulky road through the Kremenčuck watershed. Katerina Vaškuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the extremely tense situation in agricultural production due to the lack of regulation of laws and regulations, which is not properly enforced by the local authorities. Leonida LITWINOVA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the organization of coal purchases produced on the rental and private mines of Donbas. Mr. Mikoli Shershun to the Prime Minister on the violation of effective pension legislation and the refusal of executive authorities to recalculate previously appointed pensions for military veterans. Mr. Mikoli Shershun to the Prime Minister, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, for the Ministry of Transport and Communications of Ukraine’s Television Ranges to Mobile Operators, endangering the information security of the State. MIKOLI JANKOVSKI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the support of the voter’s appeal for amendments to Cabinet Order No. 440 of June 20, 1995. Mikhail PAPIJEVA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the distortion of competitive conditions in the State Enterprise International Airport Borispil. Oleg POLIŠČUKA to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, on the situation that has arisen in the enterprises of the Open Shareholders Association "Posdendizel", the Society with limited responsibility "Kirova" and the Society with limited responsibility "Kirova Machine Factory" in the city of Tokmak Zaporezki district. Alexander GOROSKEVIĆA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for urgent measures to stabilize the environmental situation and avoid technological catastrophe in the zone of the Stebnik State Mining and Chemical Company Polymineral, Lviv Region. Alexander GROSKEVIĆA to the Prime Minister on the need for urgent measures to ensure the continued implementation of the Ukrainian Act on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. Alexander EDINA to the Prime Minister for financing the completion of the construction in 2009 of the first-line engineering measures to eliminate the consequences of submerging the lower part of the city of Svetłovodsk in Kirovograd. Mr. Alexander Šepeleva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of measures to prevent the mass release of employees of the Open Shareholders Association of Lugansk Télécom. Alexia ZURAVKA to the Prime Minister for the non-predictation of expenditures in the Ukrainian State Budget for 2009 for the financing of the State Programme on the provision of disabled persons by cars and the implementation of innovative technologies for the production of rehabilitation technology. Alexia ZURAVKA to the Prime Minister, the Security Service, the Attorney General's Office for the deliberate bankruptcy of the state-owned enterprise "Skadov Sea Trade Port". SERgy GLAZUNOVA to the Prime Minister for the non-derogation of the technology for the destruction of chemical plant protection products in the production capacity of the Open Shareholder Society "HydelbergCement Ukraine", located in the city of Krivi Rig. SERGEANT GORDIENKA to the Prime Minister, Director-General of the Association with Limited Responsibility "ASTARTA-Kiyev", Head of the Poltava Regional Government Administration for the Non-Permission of Production, Dismantling and Exporting of Joint Undertaking "Veserodil Sugar Plant" of the Closed Agro-Communication Association "Zukrovik Poltavščina" of the Seminian region of Poltav region, which will allow for the preservation of a large number of jobs and ensure that budgets are available at all levels. Ms. LOVČKINA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for insufficient support by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for the development of small cities in Ukraine. Jury CARMAZINA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Qualificational Commission of Judges of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Head of the Lviv District Council on the examination of the facts of the sudden, cynical, unprecedented raiding of the particularly valuable lands of the state forest fund of the forest zone of Lviv, the national acquisition of the unique forests of the first group, which form not only the climate conditions in the territory of western Ukraine, but also the Black and Baltic Sea basins, a total area of 328 hectares and the value of more than a billion dollars of U.S. jurisdiction, which can lead to an ecological catastrophe, criminal in some cases and to the obstruction and criminal conspiracy of the law enforcement of the judiciary. Vladimir RIBAKA and Alexander POPOVA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, on the conformity of current legislation with the introduction of a limit on natural gas prices for institutions and organizations financed from government and local budgets, as well as for industrial consumers and other economic operators. Groups of National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to assist the Cernigian region in providing fire and equipment in 2009. [[CAMERA, MANKOVSKI, WITNESSES]] Groups of National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the repeal of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the licensing of economic activities for the provision of transport and information and services to dispatchers and motorways, such as those aimed at monopolizing the market and because its acceptance would lead to massive bankruptcy of small and medium-sized enterprises in the sector. [[FIVES, WORKER, BILLOZIR]] [[Registration number 4215]] Groups of National Deputies to the Prime Minister on raising the price of gas to public institutions and providing an answer to the essentially asked question. [[WOODS, COMARA, MANKOV]] Groups of National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the clarification of the relevance of the economic crisis of the preservation of the posts of 140 Deputy Ministers, which on average consists of seven Deputy Ministers per Minister, as well as the purpose of the appointment of the Eleventh Deputy Minister of Transport and Liaison of Ukraine. [[HEALTH, FIVES, AND OTHERS]] Andrija PORTNOVA to the head of the High Council of Justice, the head of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine for the unlawful deprivation of liberty without a sentence of more than two years by the city’s head of the city of Siverske Donetsk of Alexander Lysenka. Andrija SKILLY to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the abuse by officials of the Ministry of Economics of Ukraine in the field of public procurement. Valery DOUBLE to the Minister of Health of Ukraine, head of the Donetsk State Administration on the legality and optimisation of the network of medical facilities in the Donetsk Region and the maintenance of the function of the Municipal Institute for Blood Transfusion of the City of Makyivka. Valery of the Writership to the Head of the National Tax Administration of Ukraine, the Head of the State Committee on Financial Monitoring, the Attorney General on the verification of the non-payment of taxes by citizen Leonid Crnewecki and members of his family when the shares of the Shareholder Commercial Bank of Pravex Bank were withdrawn. Valeria SHAMANOVA to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine about the unsatisfactory work of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in responding to a parliamentary appeal regarding the illegal activities of business entities that, by creating organized crime groups, have caused the State a particularly large loss. Vassil Hara to the Head of the Security Service, Attorney General, on the improper protection of the legitimate rights of Ukrainian citizens. Victoria DEMJANČUK to the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Attorney General for the failure of the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine and the Ministry of Internal Affairs to give a proper legal assessment of the gross violations in the field of service by the Chief of Line Management on the South West Railways of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on Paul Gusola’s railway transport. Vladimir BONDARENKA to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Attorney General, on the investigation of criminal cases on the murder in 2006 of the Chief State Health Doctor of Railway Transport of Ukraine Vasil Anashkin and on the assassination of heads of the State Department of Central Sanitation and Epidemiology on Ukrainian Rail Transport in 2009. Vladimir LANDIKA to the Security Service, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the General Audit and Audit Office of Ukraine, the Social Insurance Fund for Temporary Labour Loss, the State Customs Service, the General Office of the State Service of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine on the legality of the actions of officials of the State Customs Service of Ukraine. Vladimir LANDIKA to the Ukrainian Security Service, Ministry of Internal Affairs, Department of State Service of Ukraine, State Customs Service of Ukraine, Chief Audit and Audit Office of Ukraine, Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine on violations by officials of the customs service of effective legislation in the creation and liquidation of public authorities. Vladimir PHILIPPEN to the Minister of Internal Affairs regarding the superiority of power, official powers and the issuance of duly illegal orders by the head of the Department of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in Kiev, Vitaly Jarem, who has led to violations of the rights, freedoms and legitimate interests of citizens. To the Minister of Education and Science for Repression against the students of the Donetsk National University who took the initiative of assigning the name of Vasil Stus to the university. Edouard PRUTNIK to the Minister of Transport and Communications of Ukraine regarding the referral of members of the Borznian Town Council of the Chernigow Region to the Ministry of Transportation and Communications of the city of Borzně, 1 International Street in accordance with the Law on Road Traffic, Road Traffic, Road Traffic Rules, Passenger Traffic Regulations, Traffic Regulations, Urban Traffic Stops and Equipment and Disengagement of Unorganised Traffic Stop in the central part of the city, resulting in the creation of road traffic accidents and inconveniences for the population. Edouard PRUETNIK to the Minister of Economics, acting as Head of the Antimonopoly Committee on the call for a non-profit association of Vünka farmers on behalf of 400 farmers, milk donors to protect the interests of the rural population while setting purchase prices for milk and checking the price situation for milk in the Sosnic region of Chernigiv. Igora RIBAKOVA to the Head of the State Customs Service of Ukraine regarding the failure to respond to the MP’s request to the Chief of Customs of Graduation. Igora RIBAKOVA to the head of the State Customs Office for an inappropriate response to a parliamentary appeal by the Chief of the Kiev District Customs. MICHELLA to the head of the Court of Auditors, the Attorney General, for the purpose of verifying the use of budgetary resources for the building of the Memorial of the Victims of Hungermares of Ukraine. Mikhail KOSIVA to the Minister of Environmental Protection regarding the non - satisfaction with the formal write-off in the case of the suspension of a special permit issued to the IBR consumer society on November 18, 2002, issue 2831 for the mining of the Kilkowsk Strait Granite. OXANI BILOSIR to the Minister of Education and Science on the use of urgent measures to provide boarding schools for children with impaired eyesight, school textbooks with increased flat font and special notes. OLEGO ZARUBINSKI TO THE Minister of Education and Science on the abuse of budgetary resources and the inadequacy of reading demand and the pedagogical requirements of the current practice of creating a school library fund in Ukraine. A LEG OF ZARUBINE to the Minister of Internal Affairs on the gross violation of the practice of the registration of natural persons of human rights, the Constitution of Ukraine and legislation on the free choice of residence in Ukraine. Oleg KARJOWA to the Head of the State Commission for the Regulation of Markets in Financial Services Prices for the violation of investor's rights to deposit deposits with the Mayan Credit Association. Alexander ŠEPELEVA to the Ukrainian Minister for Emergency Situations and Protection against the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster, took steps to prejudice the threat of flood in the region of Ivano-Frankiv. Alexia KOSTUSEVA to the minister of finance regarding the decision of the Odessa City Council regarding external borrowing. Helen BONDARENKO to the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council, the head of the Security Service, the Attorney-General's Office on investigating the loss of State control over the Sakhalin lineage and the free transfer to the Closed Shareholder Society of the extraction company Skrnaftburst rights to use the nadrama of Ukraine's largest oil and gas pipeline. Helen BONDARENKO to the head of the Security Service, the Attorney-General, for signs of unlawful activity by members of the Attorney-General’s Office, as well as officials of the Obuhi district of Kyiv. Helen LUCASH to the Minister of Internal Affairs, the head of the Council of Judges, the Attorney General, for two years the city’s head of the city of Siverske Donetsk, Alexander Lysenka. Helen LUKASH to the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Minister of Justice, the Head of the Supreme Court, the Attorney General, for the closure of the only charity pharmacy in Ukraine. Roman ZABZALJECK to the Minister of Industrial Policy on non-response to the MP's request for consideration of the proposals of the primary professional organization The All-Ukrainian Professional Association "Protection of Justice" of the state-owned enterprise "The Trial Factory of the Name of 61 Communists" following the withdrawal of the state-owned enterprise from crisis. Roman ZABZALJECK to the Minister of Environmental Protection for Dissatisfaction with the reply to a parliamentary appeal regarding violations of Ukrainian law by officials of the State Environmental Inspectorate of the Mikolai region. Sveslav ALIENIKA to the head of the Department of Public Service for Combating Economic Crime of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine on the involvement of Eugene Redneck in fraudulent activities in the real estate market and in the acquisition of money. SERGEANT AUTHORITY to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the determination of the circumstances of the beating of lawyer Sergio Kalenichenk and the violation of a criminal case. Sergey Soboljeva to the Minister of Internal Affairs on the investigation of the legality of the group's activities with regard to the Open Shareholder Society "Lvivsilmash" which has led to the creation of artificial debts of the enterprise, the cessation of production, the non-payment of wages and the mass upheaval. The artema of wheat and Mikoli Komara to the minister of the coal industry for the repair of the pool, which is on the balance of the state-owned coal industry. Jury KARMAZIN to the head of the Council of Judges of Ukraine, the Attorney General, the Head of the Qualifications Commission of Judges of the General Court of the District of Žitomir of Appeal for the violation of a criminal case for unlawful arrest in the form of a detention of citizens of Gorbov and Petrisin by judges of the Rivensk City Court of the Plain District for falsified administrative material by employees of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the province of Rivnen, for the prosecution of unlawful decisions, for the abuse of an official position, for the determination of a violation of a criminal case in the order of article 97 KPC of Ukraine and for the prosecution of guilty persons. ANDRYA PAVLOWSKI to the Attorney General on the cessation of the illegal destruction of the park zone and construction on the street of Lvivska and Painting in Kiev. Mr. Andria PAVLOWSKI to the Attorney General about the prevention of illegal actions aimed at preparing the raiding of the Kyiv Company. Boris SYJANOVA to the Attorney General for the examination of the facts of persecution, pressure and gross violation of the legislation on work during the discharge of the Chief of Staff, Olga Kovarna, from the officials of the Ministry of Family Affairs, Youth and Sports of Ukraine, and other state institutions. Gregory OMELČENKA to the Attorney General for the violation of a criminal case based on the fact of famine in 1932-1933 in Ukraine, as the genocide of the Ukrainian people, that is, the crime envisaged in part one of article 442 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. YEUGENA KARJKOVA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to prevent vandalism over the monument of Volodymyr Lenin. The branch of the U.S. Attorney General for the violation of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine by officials of the Odessa District Council of officials of the Odessa District Council. Igor KALETNIKA to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the improper treatment of the General Prosecutor's Office of the Committee for the Fight against Organized Crime and Corruption and the request of the Ukrainian National Deputy on Criminal Matters for the smuggling of means of transport, as well as the failure to comply with the requirements of effective legislation, leading to the delay of pretrial investigation and the avoidance of responsibility for the perpetrators of crimes. The branch of the Public Prosecutor General for the financial and economic activities of the Redwood City Education Department. SERGEANT to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the improper performance by medical personnel of the maternity home of the city of Krasnodon of their professional duties. SERGEY CRAPVA to the Attorney General for violating the requirements of the law on the election of members of the local councils by the head and members of the Provincial Electoral Commission of Dnipropetrovska in part of the timely recognition of those elected by the list of deputies instead of those who have been recalled and whose powers have been suspended for the term. LITHUANIA’S Jury to the Attorney General on the illegal possession of land by the agricultural and manufacturing cooperative Gorbani. LITHUANIA’S Jury to the Attorney General for the renewal and continuation of the investigation into the death of Alexander Miska. Groups of National Deputies to the Attorney General on the provision of one of the budgeting enterprises in the Chernigiv region. [[CAMERA, MANKOVSKI, WITNESSES]] Ms Pashinsky and Ms Osiki to the Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine, Renata Kuzmin, on the illegal actions of officials of the State Administration and State Enterprise, “Borispol International Airport”. Mr. Vladimir PILIPENKA to the Prosecutor of the Kyiv Region, Head of the Ministry of Interior of Ukraine in the Kyiv region, on the involvement of Eugene Reddenka in association with the officials of the association with the limited responsibility of the "Orlan Trans Group" to the illegal release of fun. MICHELLE TO THE head of the Obolon district office in Kiev of the State Administration regarding the failure to take action by the authorities of the Obalonian State to order on the street of Peter Dechtärenko. A CONSLAVER OF A LIVINICA to the prosecutor of the city of Kiev, the head of the Department of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in Kiev, on the involvement of persons subordinated to Eugene Reddenka in illegal transactions in the real estate market. Thus, honourable members of the people, 144 parliamentary requests were made, including four requests addressed to the President of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, at the request of two factions and according to the Rules, namely, the BUT factions and our Ukraine-National Self-Defense, I hereby declare a recess of 30 minutes to 12 hours three minutes. Faction leaders, please meet in the office of the Chief of Staff of the Supreme Council. I'm sorry, until 11 p.m. three minutes break, until 11 p.m. three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u2	Please invite the national deputies to the session room so that we can continue our work. Dear colleagues, we have concluded the meeting of the Conciliation Council. As long as I'm informed, people's deputies who hold meetings will come along. At the same time, I would like to point out that there are a number of regulations that we should adopt, including the results of parliamentary hearings from Chernobyl and other subjects. So today we need to find compromise solutions to those problems that separate the session room and at the same time make the right decisions to the Supreme Council. So I would ask everyone to come into the session room so that we can continue our work. Can we get back to work? Is everyone in the session room yet? Ladies and gentlemen, allow me now to provide you with information on the outcome of the meeting of the Conciliation Council. The reasons for the misunderstandings were the fact that it was set up by the faction of the "Julia Timoshenko Block" to create a temporary commission of inquiry related to the "Inter" channel. At the same time, the Committee on Rules and Ethical Affairs, which considered the project, returned it to work. And yesterday at 1610-16. 15 a draft decision has been introduced to replace the previous draft ruling on this issue. Clearly, the committee did not consider him. And you and I are coming out of what is the Rules, which requires that within the prescribed time limits a review of a bill, a draft decision be made by a committee. And the Supreme Council, regardless of the committee's decision, takes its decision. So I would ask the national deputies to read the corresponding articles of the Rules before making the charges. That's the first one. The other one. We agreed, and in fact, here we have to make a decision in the session room that next plenary week the Supreme Council of Ukraine will consider the draft relevant decision and make the appropriate decision. Since 150 votes are needed to make a decision, you are well aware that the decision will be made. And so the conclusion is that there is no basis for political turmoil. The second issue, which sparked contradictions and disputes, was the suggestion that the three members of the High Council of Justice, elected by the assembly of judges, be sworn in. Right? At the same time, the Colosseum arose around the position of the law, which states that judges are sworn within two months of their appointment or election. At the same time, it is not obvious, according to the claim, that after the two - month period coincides, no oath can be taken. But given the discrepancy of positions, in addition to the proposal to lead to the oath of judges, members of the High Council of Justice and the future, to remove any conflict, two draft laws, and a draft ruling. The draft law, which deletes the term for two months and in the Transitional Regulations, states that the law extends to the members of the High Council of Justice who have been elected or appointed before the adoption of the law. And at the same time, the draft decree to amend the regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to regulate both the law and the regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And we agreed that in the next plenary week, the Supreme Council of Ukraine would consider the relevant bills. At the same time, our honourable colleagues, we also agreed that, given the need to seek compromise and taking into account the fact that three factions: the BUT faction, our Ukraine-National Self-Defense, and the Lithuanian Block faction, have spoken for the oath of the members of the High Council of Justice today that we will put to the vote if the Supreme Council of Ukraine confirms this thesis, we will think about how to move forward. If the Supreme Council does not support this thesis, we decide that for the next plenary week, the Supreme Council of Ukraine will consider Bills 4375 and 4376 to regulate the issue of swearing members of the High Council of Justice and making a decision on swearing members of the High Council of Justice. And we should continue to work on the schedule set for today, taking into account the need to make a number of decisions before the conclusion of our plenary meeting today. So, honourable colleagues, please note, I will now put to the vote a proposal supported by three factions. Well, I'll put it in, then I'll break it off if I do. About today's oath to the members of the High Council of Justice. Please, Your Honor, vote. [[12:02:51]] For 225 Dear colleagues, I ask you not to block the Supreme Council's rostrum, we have arranged to set up once and wait for everyone to get in, do not put me in an awkward position, please, because now there will be a blockade again. The other one. Dear colleagues, two, please. The factions? Please. What are you doing? Region Party – 1, Yulia Timoshenko Block – 152, Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense – 25, Communists – 27, Block of Lithuania – 20. The other one. For the next plenary week, it is the draft law amending article 17 of the Law on the Higher Council of Justice and the bill 4376 amending article 217 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the oath of members of the High Council of Justice. [[on the oath-making procedure]] I'm voting on this assignment, please vote. [[12:04:19]] For-22. The decision is not taken. Why? I want to say one more time, dear fellows, let's not shout, we agreed, I asked, “Everybody in the hall?” they said, “Everybody has gone into the hall” and I put it to a vote. Please. Dear colleagues, don't let the other side block it now. Everything was demoralized. I'm asking you, fellow officers, to look for a reason, not in the presiding officer, but in yourself. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, please calm down, you don't have to. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I will not put to the vote because the rostrum will be blocked. All of it! Please block. [[B in m in s a l in]] I mean, my dear fellow, read the Rules, and then you'll give me an estimate. All of it. It's being announced. We agreed that the report of the Temporary Investigation Commission is not being considered because we need to make a number of decisions and a number of decisions that are extremely urgent, especially on the day before and including the anniversary of Chernobyl. The draft Law on Parliamentary Hearings on Social, Medical and Pension Insurance for War Veterans and the 65th anniversary of Victory in the Great Homeland War 1941-1945 is announced for consideration. Please, come on, Konovaluk, a reporter. Very briefly, please, on this point and let's make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u3	Dear Head, honourable deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u4	And also, I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask your permission to work without interruption, since we have not worked during this time. No objections? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u5	Dear voters, venerable veterans! I believe that this question will reconcile us. One of the most significant events of the 20th century was the victory of the Great Homeland War. During this fierce battle, civilized mankind resisted Hitler’s fascism and defeated it. The crucial role in this was played by those people who today really feel the most difficult situation, because in the context of the financial and economic crisis on this generation, the older people today actually have the most serious problems. I'm convinced that the main factor for us is not only to celebrate the 9th of May, which we feel this holiday is coming, but to do everything we can to make our veterans really feel their own support from the state to feel the respect they deserve. I am convinced that the situation in which these people are in need of serious effort. I think it would be appropriate for us not only to welcome May 9 but to do everything we can to bring these very important people together in this room, to hear their opinions, to hear their moods, to do everything we can to form an annual program, to give them state status. I'm asking, let's finish this question. Because this is a very important question for all of Ukraine. So that we can actually get the state to support war veterans in the economic, financial crisis. I will not now focus your attention on the social, financial, social situation of these people, who are receiving state aid and general retirement, as is done by the obligations provided for in the Law on the Status of War Veterans, which is the medical and social status of these people. So I'm asking you, Your Honor, to invite all of our veterans to this Parliamentary Hall on June 3, and to approve the program, the decisions that will help every veteran. Because each Ukrainian family lost loved ones, family members, friends in this war. And I am convinced that this is our primary responsibility. Thank you for your attention and please support this draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u6	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the committee's decision, who will report? Valeriy Suškevitch? The Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it as a whole. Please, Valery Suškevitch, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u7	Dear colleagues, on the eve of the Day of Great Victory, the committee supports the unanimous adoption of this decree and the holding of parliamentary hearings. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u8	Dear colleagues, no objection to putting her to the vote? There is a recommendation for a committee on adoption as a basis and as a whole for a draft decision on parliamentary hearings on: “On the social health pension of war veterans and the celebration of the 65-year-old Victory in the Great War 41-45 years on June 3, 2009,” registration number 4229. Please vote. [[12:10:23]] For 369 Decision taken. Now, honourable colleagues, draft Parliamentary Hearing Recommendation on "On the organization and holding of the final part of the 2012 European Football Championship in Ukraine", registration number 4303 Kostenko Pavlović. Is there a Paul Ivanovich? Dear colleagues, the draft decision is given to you. What warnings? Can we put her to the vote? I therefore put to the vote a proposal for a committee on acceptance as a basis and as a whole in the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Regulation on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on the theme “On Organizing and Performing the 2012 European Football Championship Finals in Ukraine”, registration number 4303. Please vote. [[12:11:28]] For 378 I'll take the order. The draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on "Contemporary status and current tasks to deal with the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster" is being announced for consideration. Seminoga Anatoly Ivanovich, please, the decision committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u9	The honourable chairman, honourable fellow national MPs, held parliamentary hearings on April 8th on the theme: "Contemporary status and current tasks to overcome the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster." They were attended by more than 500 people — representatives of various social organizations, representatives of local self-government and citizens. As a result of parliamentary hearings, the committee finalized the draft decision. It takes into account all the suggestions made by members of Parliament’s hearings as well as those made to the committee. The draft decree is considered and approved at a committee meeting. The committee proposes to adopt a draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on "Contemporary status and current tasks to overcome the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster" in general as a regulation. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u10	Dear colleagues, the committee is offering to accept.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u11	Persistence is the basis. Okay, then let's take it as a base. No, let's put it this way: since there are calls to accept as a basis, we're going to take the basis, then we're going to hear what are the proposals, and we're going to take it in the final version. The draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on "Contemporary status and current tasks to overcome the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster" is put to the vote for adoption. [[Registration number 4316]] [[12:13:32]] For 379 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u12	One minute! Please, Mikola Shershun.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u13	Mikola Shershun, “Block Lithuania”. In accordance with article 93 of the Constitution of Ukraine, in accordance with the legislative initiative, I make the following proposals to Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations: to supplement the first Recommendation with new sub-items: to create a central executive body to deal with the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster in the order established by the Constitution. You don't need any extra money, you just need to collect what's been done in different ministries and departments. And second, by 31 July of this year, to ensure that the Supreme Council of Ukraine develops and reviews changes to legislative acts on the transfer of powers to local executive authorities and local self-government bodies as a result of the disaster from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine. There's absolutely no need for money here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u14	Anatoly Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u15	Thanks for the offer. Dear colleagues, in the previous year's ruling, there was a point about the creation of an organ, which was formerly called the “Court on Chernobyl Affairs”. This organ worked, but then it was decided by the Cabinet of Ministers a few years ago, and it's at least cut today. And in our previous year on the creation of such an organ, we've come to the conclusion that, first of all, there are no more experts working on this committee, and a structure has been built from the Cabinet of Ministers to the district administrations. Today, as a minimum, we see that in the country, the crisis and the creation of such an organ will at least entail additional budget costs. This is the first time. Secondly, when this legislative body worked, I mean the committee, there were also a lot of claims to its work both on the ground and on the top, so I'm convinced that this body is not solving the problems that are facing the Chernobyl people today. This is the first time. And secondly, this regulation proposes the creation of a coordination council at the Cabinet of Ministers which. will enable the coordination of activities between ministries, offices and the supervision of the Ministry's data at the centre and at the site. Therefore, the committee does not support and suggests leaving the project as proposed by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u16	Dear colleagues, I'm going to read this proposal again and put it to a vote and ask you to identify yourself. Here's the deal. Create a central executive body to deal with the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster in accordance with the Constitution. I'm putting this motion to a vote. Please vote. Please vote. [[12:16:45.]] For 228 Offer supported. Now the second offer. By 31 July 2009, ensure that the Supreme Council of Ukraine develops and reviews amendments to legislative acts to transfer the powers of the civil health organization that have been affected by the Chernobyl disaster from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine to the local executive authorities and local self-government bodies. I'm putting this amendment to the vote by Nicholas Shershun. Please vote. [[12:17:30]] For 221 Correction not supported. Who else has the warning? Dear colleagues, were they presented in writing? No, it's not. That's why none of them are. It's in the written form that I'm going to read to you. There will be no others in the voice, dear fellows. This will be an endless process. Please, Kirilenko Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u17	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! We've just voted, I don't know, whether or not, to create another machine during the crisis. Once again, this is a huge expense on the official apparatus. I understand that the problem is that we need to take care of this. But is this the year? Vladimir Mikhailovich, if we don't take the amendment, there won't be 226 votes in favour. The faction is forced not to vote in favour of this decree, because we are creating another administration, another ministry, another 600 people — cars, rooms, and so forth. We ask you, colleagues, let's shoot: not in time for today, to create a machine for people. We cannot support such a decision in general. Sorry, we won't have to vote her. And there may not be a voice in the room, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u18	Please, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u19	Dear colleagues, I would also like to support Ivan Grigorovich's position. The thing is, there's a working system today. It's working. It works well or doesn't work well, but it works. It's travel insurance, it's Chernobyl benefits, it's pension payments and stuff. We're going to destroy this system today. Whether we can build another is a question. So I don't think it's appropriate for the Supreme Council to do it today as much as it does in opal. I propose to leave the project to the one that was sent by the committee, worked by the experts and approved by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u20	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I'll put it to a vote now. One minute, dear fellows! I'll put it to the vote - please be careful! “ To create a central body of executive authority to deal with the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster in the order established by the Constitution. Please. Dear colleagues, make up your mind. [[12:20:06]] For-182 The decision is not supported, the proposal is not supported, the amendment remains. I'm voting on the draft decree. By faction, please remove the ballots by factions. The Party of the Regions is 1, the Block of July Timoshenko is 153, our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense, 28, the Communists and the Block of Lithuania is 0. I am voting on a draft resolution on the recommendation of Parliamentary hearings on “Contemporary status and current tasks to overcome the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster”. Registration number 4316 for adoption as a decree. Dear colleagues, these are recommendations, so please vote, these are recommendations. It's a recommendation, I'm stressing again. [[12:21:00]] For the 220. The decision is not made. The draft decision was rejected. The factions, please. I would like to emphasize once again, dear colleagues, these are recommendations. Region Party 172, Timoshenko Yulia Block - 1, Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense – 0, Communists – 27, Litvina Block – 20. Yes, it's announced, yes, dear colleagues, we need to put it in the order of the day and.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u21	What? How is it without that amendment when the amendment has been voted on? How can you do so without that amendment? I would like to stress once again that the Project Order has been rejected. Mikola Haritonovich, relax, the draft ruling is rejected, all of it. And then we'll each talk about our own. I want to say it again. These were recommendations. We need to get into the agenda and decide on the decision on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Child Health and Recreation, registration number 4342. Please sign up for motive, three minutes. Please, Victor Terrence, the BUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u22	Now, one second. Ivan Grigorovich, can I give you a word? Please give it to Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko. Thank you. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u23	Ivan Kirilenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u24	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, this is our offer. Indeed, Chernobyl hearings have been decided. There was one proposal on the committee. She didn't find any support. She found support in the hall. Colleagues, we need to go back to the vote again, because once we've made changes to the Constitution, we have a parliamentary-presidential form of government, the rulings are mandatory. So, you understand very well, the government will get this decision, and we need to build a machine for officials. Well, it's not a good time today. Let's take this amendment off. The following year the situation is settled, we put and vote 400 people in the hall. And Volodymyr Mikhailovich, you had two deputies on your desk who were in the hall, but 225 votes. You have their personal statements, they were, their cards didn't work. Let's go back to that proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u25	Dear colleagues. Oh, please, they haven't all spoken yet. Who's next? Please, Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u26	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I'm essentially a question. We will discuss the inclusion in the agenda of the Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Recovery and Recreation of Children. Once again, with a good name, with such a mild term as “summer, child recovery” there is an attempt by the government to save children no longer being cured. They are amending the article of the fifth basic law, which we have voted on long ago, on the healing and rest of children, where the Ministry, the Cabinet of Ministers, the government, removes responsibility for the recovery of children. Now it's not a central authority, it can do this, it can do this, it can do this, the main problem is the Social Insurance Fund, temporary loss of employment, and local self-government. I've talked to you a hundred times from this rostrum. Why, until now, have we not introduced a preference for those industrial enterprises that are costing their children not only their factory but also the entire microregions of huge cities. This bill cannot be voted on.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u27	National MP Gordienko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u28	Please pass the word to Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u29	Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u30	Thank you, Sergey Gavrilovich. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues! One more time, our hands are trying to get rid of our children. And it's not easy with children, it's with children who need special attention from the state. I will quote, now article 5 of the law says that the administration of the central executive body in the affairs of the family, youth and sports are children’s health and rest institutions of state importance. Belonging. The Ministry is preparing a proposal on the extent to which children need special social attention and support for special health conditions. What is proposed? Children’s institutions may be part of the sphere of administration of the authorized central authority. Or maybe they don't. The body prepares a proposal on the extent to which children are financed and rested, which may belong to its administration.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u31	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u32	Therefore, if the Cabinet of Ministers agrees to take the amendment to the fifth article, it can be considered, if not, another blow to the social problems of the most vulnerable.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u33	Yuri Carmazin's faction of "Our Ukraine People's Self-Defense."
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u34	Yuri Carmazin. I ask you to give the floor to our coalition associate, Sharov Igor Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u35	Sharov Igor Fedorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u36	Thank you. Dear Yuri Anatolyovich! Dear Mr. Head! I propose to step out of this coalition, which has just taken place in the context of the draft Decree No. 4316, namely, “On the current state and current tasks of overcoming the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster”, and I propose that we return to this issue in a manner that will put the draft decision to the vote and vote in general with the deletion of the amendment that Michael Schershun has made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u37	Dear colleagues! We exchanged thoughts. At the same time, at the suggestion of Igor Fedorovich and Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko, the bill was rejected. You've probably all heard it right. If we follow the Rules, I want to tell you again that the bill has been rejected. Since this bill is not the only one, it is bound by the need to return to the vote on the oath of judges, or members of the Supreme Council of Justice. If you want the Supreme Council of Ukraine to be blocked again, it is clear that no one will accept such proposals. Since the three deputies made statements that the card had not worked. And the only thing we can do is to pay our fellow national MPs back and add their cards and their statements to the protocol. If we want to destroy the work of the Supreme Council now, that's understandable. So let's follow the Rules, the Chernobyl problem bill is rejected, and everyone knew what he was voting for, they were recommendations. And let's move. You taught me at the Conciliation Council meeting to follow the Rules, so let's work on the regulations, and whoever wants to vote, you understand. We are now going to consider the draft Law on Amendments to the Law of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u38	Put it in the order of the day.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u39	And we turned it on. Oh, we didn't turn it on. I'm sorry. There is a proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Child Health and Recreation, Registration No. 4342, please vote. Please vote. [[12:29:10]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Thus, honourable colleagues, the bill is rejected. The point is that if we follow the Rules, we can consider in the next session when it comes autumn and when it comes time for the children to go to school. The bill is not included in the agenda. The factions? Please. Region Party – 0, "Club of Timoshenko" – 148, "Our Ukraine-People's Self-Defense" – 24, communists – 0, "Club of Lithuania" – 20. Now the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Television and Radio Act. [[concerning the determination of the size of the licence assembly]] Dear colleagues, there's an offer for you to support. Perhaps in a reduced procedure, we would consider these bills. Well, I mean, the ones before the first reading. I am putting this motion to the vote to continue the consideration of the bills with a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[12:30:45.]] For-51 The decision is not supported. We're working on a full procedure. It is announced before the review of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Television and Broadcasting Act, registration number 3681. [[concerning the determination of the size of the licence assembly]] Rapporteur – Ukrainian National Deputy Vladimir Ivanovich Landik, co-rapporteur – head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information, Bondarenko Olena Anatoliyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u40	. It's in traffic somewhere.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u41	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u42	Honorable Predestination! Dear colleagues! Your opinion is proposed by Bill No. 3681, which changes the approach to determining the payment of the licence assembly of radio organizations. According to a new edition of the Television and Radio Broadcasting Act" in July 2008, the National Council on Television and Broadcasting published a new method of calculating licensing congregations. This innovation has resulted in the prospect of the destruction of regional and local language in most regions of Ukraine due to the insensibility of small radio organizations to pay a new salary for the extension of the license. The proposed method of simplified generalization does not adequately identify the territorial coverage that is calculated in different areas, rather than the potential audience, which differs significantly in cities such as Kiev and Dnipropetrovsk, which result in a single category. As a result, in a period of less than six months, more than 20 companies have requested the National Council to postpone payment of the licence congregation, and nine companies have already been deprived of the opportunity to obtain, continue or transform the licensing congregation. The lack of funds to pay off the licensing congregation and the situation is getting worse every time. Prior to the introduction of this method, the TRC licensing assembly was paid on the basis of a decree by the Cabinet of Ministers, which introduced a methodology for the consideration of RTD tariffs. That's why we're returning this bill, and we're asking you to support it. This will simplify the system of lifting Nakrad's innovation and allow Kabin to determine for himself the size of the licensing assembly for the radio organizations. And I'd like to address all of you. I've heard that politicians, our authorities don't want to support this bill, so don't forget when you come to places with your reports, and when you talk about how you and, not only for the people and the media, but by not supporting this legislature of our committee, you're just destroying local radio organizations that you don't pay for anything like Nacsovette now wants you to worship them, you get one bet, you don't bring anything, so you'll pay billions. [[We've repeatedly said it's a corrupt body.]] But we have to go back to normal logic. And we're going back to Kabmin to do this, and I want to see how the Kabmin representatives vote here, that they define this methodology themselves and support the media. And the media, I would like them to look at who they invite and ask them, whether they are for the development of the industry in our home or against it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u43	Please return to the rostrum. Vladimir Ivanovich, please. Let's sign up for questions. Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u44	Dear Volodymyr Ivanovich! I generally support your idea. I just don't understand. There you said, something to carry, not to carry, to carry, to carry. You suggest, now this is set up by the National Television and Radio Council. You're proposing to transfer to the Cabinet of Ministers. What difference does it make? Still, it's probably closer to the National Council? This is a matter for the National Council, not the Cabinet of Ministers. Because if you were to transmit or eliminate completely, that's understandable. And so, from one organ to another, I don't think there's going to be any more order.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u45	We ask you to return the calculation methodology, as before, by July 2008, when the Cabinet of Ministers had determined it at RRT's rates. That's tens of times, and sometimes a hundred times less than luck. It's us, as you remember, that car assembly law you turned back, so exactly, it's exactly the same thing, the mechanism. We're going back to the way we used to.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u46	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u47	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". I share your concern. But my study of the bill raised some questions. The point is that the licensing congregation is listed in the government budget. This means that it is already included in the draft State Budget Act for this year. And for today, if we're reducing it, and I've come to realize it's going to shrink, why don't we make a parallel change to the State Budget Act, as required by the Budget Code. Because you can't do that without it. That's the first one. And secondly, do we have the conclusions of the Ministry of Finance, or is it harder for us to report to the budget committee now, how will this affect the State budget? And one last question. As you know, neither you nor I have any of these companies, they only have oligarchs. Do we not thus care about the pockets of those oligarchs who hold these channels? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u48	Thank you. You know, the oligarchs will pay. They don't care. I stand here for the interests of small radio organizations, for which 100,000 dollars, and sometimes 300,000 dollars, is a disproportionate salary, they can't make it in three years, I'm talking about it. And the oligarchs bought everything and bought it. But there is no need to change the budget, as this has been introduced since January 1, 2010. We'll do it on that budget. But even if it had been introduced since the day it was published, let me tell you, it would have been nice too. Television companies are also in crisis. Nobody's coming. We have forbidden you here in this room both alcohol and tobacco. They don't have money, and now they're in crisis. And if we do not help them, who will help them?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u49	The sand, Ivan Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u50	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear Vladimir Ivanovich, I absolutely support the fact that the licensing congregation needs to be reduced. Indeed, no matter who makes the decision, the Cabinet of Ministers or the Council, it is essential that it be so. The question is, what you said right here, the oligarchs will find the money to pay for it. But small operators who speak the languages of national minorities have the problem of finding these funds. So I have a question. If we support the project that you're proposing to implement the European Charter of Regional Languages and Minority Languages to enable national minorities to receive the product in their own language, will it help or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u51	Of course, it will help, but hopefully it will remind us of the paper that we have here with you on cross-border television, where it is said: Europe tells us that in any language you want, as much as you want, as much as you want, and no one has the right to violate human rights. But we signed this ourselves, we signed this convention here, we supported it, and no one does. And the same Nacsovette also tells us that you don't. I mean, we support Europe, and Nacsovette himself won't let us in.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u52	Smélová Svetlana Alexandrovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u53	Please tell me. Attention, I'm here, here, here. Tell me, please, how much real television companies are going to benefit from this? How much cheaper would it be for them? You could actually say, now how much are they paying and how much are they going to pay?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u54	I can tell you, one of the radio companies that came to me, she had a license assembly of 10,000. That's right. Now they've got 170,000. The bracelet is 17 times. And I'm telling you, tens, there's twice. Someplace for healthy, interesting, powerful oligarchi companies, there's a decrease.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u55	Sushenko Alexander Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u56	Your Honor, I've been very familiar with your suggestions, and I'd like to clarify Adam Ivanovich's questions: please tell me, who should be in charge of this matter in the Cabinet of Ministers, and did you work before going out with such a legislative initiative?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u57	Don't do any new units. It was methodical: The Cabinet of Ministers gave the methodology, as is also calculated for their licenses for ORT concerts, and that is all. You don't need anything anymore, the same method as it does. But when the government body is the Cabinet of Ministers, which you represent here, it will be. Then what questions might there be as we return the Cabinet of Ministers? But we're not creating any new structure, but Nacsovette, you see, these are all that we have in time to question the president and so on -- that's why, because they can't divide there. This will be clearly described, and any television company knows in a year that when and how much it needs to pay, not while something is wanted by Nacsovét this week, on Friday.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u58	Have a seat. Please, Vladimir Ivanovich. Correspondence from Bondarenko Olena Anatoliyevna
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u59	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u60	Dear colleagues! Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Indeed, this bill is very important for local small television companies. And I want to add Vladimir Ivanovich, he didn't fully prove his point. They're complaining about the oligarchs here, so I'll tell you exactly what the new calculation method is. The biggest benefit of this has been just the large national companies, which in general have not changed significantly. As for the regional radio organizations, they are now obliged to pay at the same time. And the question is, will it not be that by the end of the year they simply have nothing to pay for and that these radio companies will just shut down? At that time, there will be no more budget filling, including no more budget filling. Indeed, the bill envisages a return to the old licence fee system as of 1 January of the following year, so the budget year will not be affected at all. Consider that we are doing a good job right now for local broadcasters, which is really an anti-crisis bill for them. I know that today, there was a debate between the factions of this bill and certain factions of the power coalition that, since the bill is the author of a regional bill, we will not vote for it. Respectable! Forget it, please, and help local journalists, media. the local radio organization. Politics is totally inappropriate here. Moreover, if you think about it in a cynical way, see what it will be like to look into your eyes and see your name on the list of those who have practically cut off their financial activities. Once again, please support our national producer in the field of television production. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u61	Please sign up for the question to the co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u62	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u63	Dear Elena Anatolyevna, I think we should thank both Vladimir Ivanovich and you, and the committee for what was indeed the right, principled decision in support of, above all, local television companies. And we provide an opportunity, an incentive for development, for growth. I just wanted to ask you one question, and it's a valid one: why is it said that this decision has been delayed? It would have had to be accepted long ago, and it would have to come into effect. Yeah, thanks for the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u64	Thank you very much. Mikhail Vasiljevic, a long time ago, considered the committee, and thanks to Vladimir Ivanovich's absolutely incredible efforts, finally, it was in the turn of the “ionizing radiation”, the “punishment” and everything else, finally the bill was put in place. Thank you very much for your awareness and the Secretariat of the Supreme Council, at last, and the entire Supreme Council at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u65	Ukulov National Deputy, Timoshenko Yulia Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u66	Do you not think that by increasing the licensing body of the National Television Council, radio is trying to bankrupt small radio companies in order to divide the market? I want to say that I will support this bill. And our committee fully supported him, leading to the knowledge of all MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u67	Thank you so much for such a wonderful question to Mr. Ukulov, my committee colleague, because there are indeed such fears when local broadcasters are destroyed because they are unable to pay such a huge licence fee, and then they will just leave the hammer. And large national broadcasters will buy these local frequencies cheaply. And then we have a whole sector of local regional radio organizations that will be represented literally by a dozen -- two radio organizations in Ukraine. Thank you. Only monsters will be left.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u68	Ivan Popescu, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u69	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Thank you very much, Madam Helen Anatolyevna, for your efforts with our colleague Landik to consider this bill, but based on these considerations and the explanations that we have heard here, do you not think it is time to rotate the members of the National Council from television and radio? There are many reasons for this. The first reason is to try to bankrupt small regional channels. The second attempt, which creates a negative image of Ukraine in the international arena, refers to the functioning of the European Charter of Regional Languages. Sometimes they monitor licenses. If the appropriate local language company is also spoken in national minority languages, and the license is not written instead of proposing changes to the license, they suggest that the appropriate languages be removed from the air altogether. So let me give you an explanation, an answer from this point of view.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u70	Thank you very much Ivan Vasilevich. In fact, we're running ahead of the steamboat a little bit. We will have a report of the National Council to the Supreme Council on these issues in the coming sessional weeks. I can say that, in fact, the greatest mistake, the greatest national failure in the work of the National Council, was, in practice. Loss of digital space. We've lost all border areas on digital television. And 2008 was declared a digital television goal in Ukraine, which did not happen. Moreover, we have great problems with the objectivity of the allocation of frequent resources, but we will discuss this with you in the context of the discussion of the situation with the National Council itself. I am ready to extend my hand to the constructive forces that are really in the National Council. Unfortunately, however, the ball is now being made an absolute nationalist destructive. I think the National Council has come to deal with this on its own within its eight members. You know it's not that easy right now. There are ongoing disputes, including, in fact, change in leadership. I'm ready to support these trends, I think it's going to be a cure.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u71	Give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u72	It's over.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u73	Thank you, then, for the time and for the coincidence. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for the bill. Please record for the performance. Please put the names of the national MPs on the board. Yuri Carmazin. Yuri Anatolyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u74	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Ladies and gentlemen, I think we should raise a very serious question. I'm very sorry when we talk about nationalistic views of the State Department or someone else. I'm talking to my colleagues, we're using the highest rostrum in Ukraine. At the same time, in violation of the Constitutional Court’s decision, in violation of article 10 of the Constitution, the highest public officials here use the language of another state. I'd ask the chairman not to allow this rule, if a person doesn't know the language, he can't be a national deputy. That's why we write it all. So, dear friends, I say that the Rules prohibit and say that we have to provide the translation and so on. And let's not hang labels on anyone. The huge diaspora in the Russian Federation is Ukrainian, huge. But none of the Ukrainian diaspora from the Russian highest rostrum spoke English. Let's think about why. Because the chairman there wouldn't let him do it, obviously. So, dear friends, I would like to go back to the law that discusses television and radio talk, and there are rational seeds. But I would like us to look at such rational grains together with a report from the Committee on Budgets. I wish I could. These are not my requirements, these are the requirements of the Budget Code. And we have to think about it this way, and all of the bills that somehow affect the budget have to be viewed this way. What's more, it has to be written here that the law comes into force on January 1st of next year, but it has to be completely calculated. What is proposed? If article 31 had previously been recorded in paragraph two, “the methodology of accounting is being developed and approved by the National Council in agreement with the Ministry of Finance”, it will now be “in the scales set by the Cabinet of Ministers”. But as methodology develops, we don't write it here. Are we knowingly doing this? If consciously, we throw it away. Then we just move on to the size that existed before. If not consciously, let us be aware of what we are doing now. So I think this bill was worth working on. And I will ask the Head of the Supreme Council to have all the bills that affect the spending portion of the budget accompanied by a budget committee necessarily with the help they need to be.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u75	John Kirilenko refers the right to speak to Vladimir Yavorowski. Please, Volodymyr Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u76	Dear Ukrainian Parliamentarians! Dear voters! Especially are prominent representatives of the local media. I would like to remind you of this has a direct bearing on what we are discussing right now, that I am convinced that we have done very faithfully, that we have not voted in favour of creating another superstructure – Chernobyl. And what I'm trying to tell the Chernobyls is that you're going to have some of the small sums that were going to be allocated to you, and you're going to take the money to support another armada of officials. That's why we think it's absolutely moral that we didn't vote for this other organ. And I want to calm the Chernobylers literally after Easter, after Easter, we're going to go back to that question, we're going to rewrite that determination, and these recommendations are going to be accepted. The second question. I listened very carefully to the author of this bill and kept saying to myself, "Why was this bill suddenly introduced, which is the idea that it will make, what adjustments? And I've heard such a pink thesis, beautiful that it's all about local television and radio journalists. So, I want to tell you, my colleagues, my colleagues, the local journalists, this has absolutely nothing to do with your pocket, with your salary. This all has a direct bearing on the owners of local information. And I, Volodymyr Ivanovich, respect you, your family and your brother, but when I'm in Lugansk and when I listen to your private media that's confused all over Lugansk, I often want to pinch and ask myself, am I in Burkina Faso or in Ukraine? I'm listening to these radio stations, and I don't know who they're talking about. If it's a party of regions wall newspaper, call it an agate and so forth, not a media medium that spreads to all of Luhansk. There is a need to change, the ideology of this bill is proposed, to change, not to change the National Council in which all the political forces are represented and it wants to or does not want to, it has to be objective because there are different representatives and the Party of Regions, and the same NUNS and we know that everything that happens there is usually transparent. And when there's a conflict, you know, there's a recent conflict, and Chevchenko's head, and his deputy, he's literally retired. Because of this, take it to this transparent body and transfer it to the Cabinet of Ministers, where there are no professionals, no one. Because of this, Vladimir Ivanovich, don't be offended, but it's a self-inflicted decision, it doesn't make anything new, it's directed again, I say, only to the owners of the channels. Usually when you talk about oligarchs, you talk about something with such knowledge that I will absolutely believe you, because you know it from the inside.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u77	National Deputy Scybinetsky, please. Is there a Scybinetsky? None. I've been stabbed. Please, Uklov. Squibney, will you please be speaking here? Oh, no? I've been stabbed. Calchenko. Please, Mikoli Tomenku Ukolov is transferring the right to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, today is such a special day and our Christian Parliament, and here I am listening to speeches and it seems that without human politics we can't make any serious decisions. In fact, there is a problem, but when our colleagues from the Party of Regions powder this problem in Ukrainian, and my colleagues from BUTU powder it as a criticism of the Party of Regions, it seems that we're okay with the radio organizations. Not okay. And the idea of the law is right, because today the situation looks like this, today a few people have taken the responsibility of determining how much, the radio organization in the district center, in a small town, should pay, because they think they've defined the only, so-called, formal approach that doesn't go with the activities of these radio organizations, because it doesn't fall within the formal approach of the local or district organization, where, in principle. They can't pay that amount. Obviously, we need to analyze and build a normal information policy system, where, as we always had, the RTT concert, which was more technically literate, presented its calculations and the National Television and Radio Council, and the Kabin made decisions. I mean, I think that the ideology of the law is right because when Kabmin analyzes all the components of the license payment, she makes the final decision. And there's no conflict of interest here, because Kabmin, as a collegiate body, has to listen to all the points of view. But just so we know that we don't make any decisions. Obviously, we need to think about how to conceptually build information policy, because, you know, for example, the RRT situation, we have a struggle every year, or we have a ministry of transport and communication, or we have a "RRT" in charge. That's why I'm offering it. I see moods in the hall, unfortunately, political, unprofessional today, I would think that in the first reading we should adopt this bill, and then the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information will involve professionals to make it more clear and understand what is the logic of shaping this contribution so that we don't subtract the regional component of broadcasting, because here is a key blow, of course, not through the central channel, they won't go anywhere, they'll pay, they'll pay in regional terms. And maybe on a regional level we have both bad and good radio organizations, but I think it's better that they're bad, but they exist because they report local events, they talk about what's going on in the region. So I would ask everyone in the first reading today to support, despite the fact that we've been so politically hard to get started today, and the committee will involve experts from the Cabinet, both from the Nacrada, and from the RRT, and on the second reading, to issue a professional non-political bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u79	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. [[Registration number 3681]] The committee's offering to take it. Just a minute. The committee suggests that we take this as a whole. At the same time, a number of critical comments were made about this report, please. Please, the reporter is entitled to the closing word. I ask you to take into account that it is already 13 hours before we have to move on to the “Various”.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u80	Thank you. I would even like to speak Russian specifically. You know, when we start telling people how to talk in this Parliament, well, we think we do. And to say that it's a good thing that Carmazin knows Ukrainian, you should have read it, and the methodology here is, in the Explanatory Note, everything is familiar. I was just hoping to read it. And he read the conclusion to the Legal Department, and he doesn't want to read any more. And speaking to a respected colleague of ours, the fact that no one is there. So I would like to remind you that it was in May, in the spring of 2004, that your candidate for the Presidents on those media outlets where he was not released that your faction leader, Yulia Vladimirovna, the current Prime Minister, was there reporting to the Lugansks. So if you don't know, it's not my fault. And I won't find one person who would say that it was involved and wouldn't let him if you meant the means of information that I was thinking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u81	Thank you. Please, just one minute. Please, is there a closing word from the committee? None. Don't insist. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law, registration number 3681, “On amending the Ukrainian Television and Broadcasting Act to determine the size of the licensing assembly”. Please vote. Based on the base. [[13:02:46]] For 225 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party 172, Timoshenko Yulia Block 8, Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense – 0, Communists – 27, Litvina Block – 18. The second proposal was for rereading the first reading. Please vote. For the re-reading of Bill 3681. [[13:03:27]] For 222 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. All of it. Dear colleagues, we are now moving on to the “Various”. All of it. It's been 13 hours, we're moving on. I want to say again, there's no way. We do what we need to do. Once again, after 13 p.m., the Supreme Council of Ukraine starts working in different modes. What else do you have? That's it. Please sign up for “Victane”. Once again, my dear colleague, there is nothing we can do, no decision will be taken. Put the bill down. I'm following the Rules and I'm asking you not to insist. Please, Mikola Shershun. The next is Matthew, the Fracchio of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u82	Mikola Shershun, “Block Lithuania”. Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters, respected black people, parliamentary hearings are being held with a view to listening, hearing, and doing something useful for people, I understand. More than half of the speakers spoke for the establishment of a State Committee that would not only deal with current problems but would have a strategy, vision would have solved Chernobyl’s problems. It doesn't need any extra money, as I said in my statement earlier. So today we just have to pick up something that's been spread around different ministries in due course. And this system that we're talking about today works absolutely ineffectively. Today, the Ministry of Social Affairs acts as a military cashier and simply transfers money from the budget in the pockets of our neighborhoods, and no one is doing the prospect today. What should we do next? How can you treat areas, treat people, and deal with other Chernobyl problems? The second problem that was raised at parliamentary hearings is the decentralization of the funds that go towards the recovery of the Chernobyl population. Opponents argue simply: In places, in regions, money will be stolen. Where they steal more is another question. The records of the Auditorium say the opposite. And as a result of many references, I have offered today a thesis on how to transfer these funds to our councils for recovery. And when I hear today that a committee and money will be taken out of our electorate's pockets, I say responsiblely that this is cynicism, because in order to create a committee, as I said before, we don't need money today. I want to reassure our Chernobylers, and I'm convinced that my fellow MPs will listen to common sense and vote for such a determination after the Passover celebrations that will really solve the problems of our neighborhoods. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u83	Matthew Valentin Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u84	Please pass the word to Sergey Srapov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u85	Sergey Hrapov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u86	Sergey Hrapov, Communist faction. Honourable voters, honourable colleagues, as long as the so-called Ukrainian political elite, after forgetting the common people, struggles for a presidential chair, these people are forced to suffer from the insolence of the owners of the businesses where they work. My electorate complained to me about the wrong actions of the directors of the South Radio Company of the city of Yellow Waters of the Dnipropetrov region, which for seven months do not pay workers their wages, deliberately reduce production against the requirements of law and production, engage in illegal entrepreneurial activities, create underground factories and production, using the power of the plant and using electricity without paying for it. All the above-mentioned difficulties with the company's work have intensified since the Ukrainian State Property Fund launched a competition for the sale of the state stock package of the ZAT “Participants”. Since then, the company has stopped its work and, as a result, has stopped paying salaries to employees, including contributions to the Ukrainian Pension Fund, and other budgets and funds. Investment commitments by the winner of the competition are not executed or implemented; debt on wages is not repaid; debt on contributions to the Pension Fund is not paid; business is not working; factory power is used for private purposes by factory managers. the winners of the ZAT “Participants”. In addition, the owners of the ZAT “Share Partners” deliberately initiated bankruptcy of the company, the factory manager has been removed from his duties. The Dnipropetroval Economic Court appointed an arbitrator, a person close to the owners of the ZAT “Participants”. A detailed study of the documents given to me and the way in which people talk has determined that the above facts of non-payment of wages, failure to meet investment obligations to pay off debts to the Pension Fund of Ukraine and other budgets and trust funds, illegal entrepreneurial activities using the power of the factory and other abuses by the owners of the ZAT “Trade Partners” to the arbitrators and other officials actually have a place that is causing fair indignation to my constituents and to me personally as the national deputy of Ukraine. I stress that the rights of voters violated, the interests of the State of Ukraine must be restored immediately and the penalties imposed under the current legislation of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u87	Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u88	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of Regions. Dear Head, colleagues and dear voters! As a national deputy of Ukraine, I was approached by the electorate of the village of Desna Kozeletsky district of Chernigiv region with a complaint of the hope of the Kozeletsky Authority on gas supply and gasification of the VAT “Chernigówgaz”, namely, the cessation of the gas supply to the boiler room, which serves the military, housing, three kindergartens, school and the village gymnasium. As a result, residents were held hostage by the Ukrainian Ministry of Defence’s Ministry of Energy debt, which accounts for about 6.5 million dollars. Since the beginning of April of this year, the village’s buildings have run out of heat and hot water, acute respiratory diseases, especially among children and adults. In the military, unburned barracks shut down electricity, and there is no steam in the dining room to prepare food for the soldiers. As a result, cooking is done in the field kitchens on the street in unsanitary conditions. The spring appeal had just begun. Young people are sent to a cold, unheated barracks, and no electricity, nor is the military bathroom working. Taking into account all the points raised, I urge President Viktor Andrievich Yushchenka, the Cabinet of Ministers, the head of the government, Julius Volodymyrovna Timoshenko, to find out the circumstances of the case and take appropriate measures, to react promptly with a view to bringing the situation into line with the current legislation of Ukraine and to avoid such situations in the future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u89	Thank you. I'd like to invite National Deputy Lily Grigorovich, the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". To prepare for the national deputy Behiz, a faction of the Communists of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u90	Lilia Grigorović, “For Ukraine” MP. Honourable fellow MPs, dear Ukrainians. Today, a passionate Friday is a day of great sadness and great reassurance by every human being for himself and all mankind. It is not surprising at this time that this sounds like a parliamentary rostrum, in a completely different way, to rethink our current Ukrainian situation. Because it seems that the problem today is not just political, but economic. As in the moral and spiritual plane. Today, exactly 2009 years after Jesus Christ was killed. Five more days ago in Jerusalem he was greeted and said, “O Sanna! ” What happened that Pontius Pilate’s administration of justice at that time condemned the innocent Jesus Christ but released the guilty Barabbas? What happened when the last breath was given by the Savior of this world, and on the right hand was one criminal, one said: “Why are you for God, how can you not save yourself and us?” And the second criminal said: “Lord, remember me in your kingdom!” Jesus Christ replied: “You will be with me in Paradise until evening.” Why am I talking about these things? Today, literally 20 to 30 minutes ago, Parliament sounded like how much to give to the Nakrad, how much to the Kabmin, how much for the land, how much for the soul. People are good, but everything lies in the plane of good and bad! You know, literally a few days ago, you drove along with help, an organization of Ukrainians in the diaspora of the Kuves into the Sumskie region. Because the Ukraine of American origin died and ordered $300,000 to save motherhood and childhood in Ukraine. They also bought ambulances and breathing aids. And I think, God is kind, but if our oligarchs were represented here in Parliament, they didn't sell helicopters, not planes, and Lancrusters, but yachts. The minimum cost is $900,000 and the largest cost is up to one and a half million. Then we would have saved that motherhood and childhood in one moment. That takes political decisions, economics? No, moral, spiritual, for on the carpet of the Lord God, where we will all become, surely, is the only true social justice. The same thing I want to say about the law is recent when the Pension Fund had to take on small businesses. Look, the most popular word today is rent in Kiev, in the district center. A small, medium-sized business that deals with services is failing yet. Additions. Why don't we take interest on currency transactions? Isn't that the same reason? So on this day, I want to say to all the Ukrainians: Christ Voscres! - The truth of Voscres! And to wish that the love of the resurrected Jesus Christ would strengthen faith.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u91	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u92	had faith and hope in the souls of the Ukrainians, for there is faith and faith, and our great Ukrainian victory will certainly take place.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u93	I would like to invite National Deputy Behwaiz to prepare for Christmas Eve and remind all the national MPs who have stayed and are actively working, which is not the chairman, but the system includes microphones, so we need to react in a calm manner. Please, Mr. Beales.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u94	Dear Mikola Volodymyrovich, I have received a call from the veteran of the Great Homeland War on the exhumation of the remains of the Soviet prisoners of war in the territory of Winnice. The point is that in 2008 the State Inter-Ministerial Commission carried out work to exhume the remains of Soviet prisoners who were in the fascist war camp for prisoners of war, known as Stallions No. 349. The work revealed the remains of two thousand and eight hundred and ninety - three of our soldiers and officers who were killed in that garland. Remembrance to. 993 remains were made at the International Remembrance Field in Slavuta Hmelnicki district and a hundred remains at the Vynnice Memorial. At present, the remains of nearly two thousand Soviet soldiers are stored in the military compound, and 22,287 in the town of Winnice in sacks, just think, in sacks. According to information provided by the State Interministerial Commission on the Educatement of the Memory of Victims of War and Political Repression at the Office of the Ministers of Ukraine, the National Budget for the Ninth Year provides funds for the implementation of the targeted programme “Search and Organization of the Burial of Victims of War and Political Repression”. Yet, in the Ukrainian Institute of National Memory, which is the chief administrator of the budget, the work on exhuming the remains in the former camp for prisoners of war is not completed. Therefore, I ask the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to return immediately to this problem and make appropriate changes to the 2009 budget with the necessary to implement this, in order to implement this comprehensive programme. I have received a response from the Cabinet of Ministers that about 590,000 people have been allocated to implement this program, although I know that there are some 5,000 people in Ukraine today. And in order for us to fulfill our Christian duty, it takes about 3.5 million dollars for previous generations to do so. Against the backdrop of the hundreds of millions that are being implemented to challenge our President to the “Mystical arsenal”, to the “Baturin”, we need to invent these 3.5 million to fulfill our sacred duty to previous generations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u95	Thank you. At the invitation of the National Deputy Kolesnick, he was given the word of two national deputies, the National Deputies Suhi and Mankovsky, Rules 6 minutes. Next is National Deputy Konovaluk, faction of the Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u96	The Party of the Regions faction, Vadim Koleschenko. Dear colleagues, during the Great Homeland War the only city in Ukraine was the town of Sevastopol, where the blockade lasted more than 250 days. Today, it is known that the blockade was even more than 250 days away from Sevastopol, and for two weeks it was still defended by some one hundred thousand people who were abandoned in the area of the 35-shore battery tower, where today a museum-memory complex of heroes of the Great Homeland War is being built by the Sevastopol forces. In view of this great feat, the great feat of those who lived in the occupied Sevastopol of the Supreme Council in 2004 decided on the status of war veterans and on the guarantees of their social protection for those who took part in the defence of Sevastopol and worked in the occupied Sevastopol. However, over the years since the existence of this law, it has been impossible for people to obtain the benefit that has been guaranteed and related. This was due to the fact that in Sevastopol, similar to Leningrad's hero city, those who had medals for Leningrad's defence and signs for Leningrad's defence were assigned to the name of a participant in the Great Homeland War. Based on testimony from witnesses and documents that could be made. In Sevastopol, such work took place. In 1992, 1994. 1998. Witness testimony, material, testimonies, everything they could do was collected. However, some of the people, such as the underage inhabitants of the occupied Sevastopol, could in fact confirm this only by virtue of the participants involved in the hostilities who saw and told the story. As you can imagine, the Ministry of Labour and Wages explained that the child's 7-year-old had received a certificate in the occupied Sevastopol or any document confirming that he lived there. The birth certificate, which had been issued, had been issued in German and had certainly changed since people were ashamed to be with such documents. And the children were actively involved in the defense of Sevastopol. They collected empty bottles for the metal devices, they took out the divers, they sewed clothes, they helped raise bullets and shells, and most of all, when our red armymen were captured, they were the only ones who could get into the barbed wire and deliver food and water to the prisoners of war. And today, when we realize it's impossible to obtain documents, because only two houses in Sevastopol were preserved after the war. What archival records and documents might have been involved. And today we have introduced a new bill, which I think will be supported by everyone in order to recognize those documents that were the basis for issuing signs for Sevastopol's defence, which were confirmed by the relevant commissions in 1992, 1994 and 1998, because those witnesses who spoke about it in 1992 are virtually non-existent. And for people, it's very painful, it's offensive, and it's causing a lot of social tension. This does not require much material costs. It is a matter of physical memory, it is a question of the honour of our duty to return what people have the right and must receive -- this is Fatherhood; it is our country that must answer those people who have provided our State in that terrible and grave war. And the second question. Again, it concerns our famous hero city, Sevastopol, how the State takes care of the developing generation, its healthy lifestyle of physical culture and sports. It's a long-suffering question. The Black Sea Fleet Stadium. The decision of Sevastopol in 1949, after the Great Homeland War, was built and, following the collapse of the Soviet Union, became the use of the Ukrainian Navy. As a result of corruption schemes, open bribery and bribery in the course of almost a few days, this stadium, located in the centre of the city, in a historic place near the Sevastopol Panoram, was placed at the highest point of Sevastopol for commercial housing. For four years, the City Council, the Bar Association, the entire progressive public, the footballers, the inhabitants of Sevastopol are struggling with these illegal decisions, which violate the Law on Physical Culture and Sports, which are in violation of the Supreme Council Regulation prohibiting re-profiling. Several decisions of the City Council that they refuse to change the targeted appointment of a sports facility for housing and commercial construction, twice the Supreme Court has returned the case to Sevastopol. Again, the local Sevastopol Court decides that there is no violation of the law, the Ministry of Defence has refused to use the stadium and on legal grounds now, in violation of the Law on Physical Culture and Sports, the stadium may be re-inhabited. We have therefore made a draft regulation on the provision of Ukrainian legislation in the area of culture and sport, for which we are once again trying by the Supreme Council to return to the issue of embalming the facilities of the Ministry of Defence, which, in the form of abandonment of non-professional objects, seek to address their narrow interests. We are trying to create a commission here to verify the use of these facilities and to transfer this stadium to the communal property of the town of Sevastopol so that it can finally build a good sports base where our children, our adults, could strengthen their health. Above all, this would serve as an example of how well the State is treating that asset, of those facilities that were built in the difficult post-war years for the future of its people, for the sake of the future of our people, for the sake of a healthy way of life. I think the Supreme Council will support this decision and finally the sevastopols will have their own city stadium. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u97	Thank you. I'd like to invite National Deputy Konovaluk, faction of the Party of the Regions. Next will be the national MP of the Kings, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u98	Valery Konovaluk, faction of the Party of Regions. Dear, distinguished voters! Dear compatriots! I'm glad to say today. The Supreme Council, despite such a difficult political day, has made an important decision: to hold parliamentary hearings on the social health of veterans and celebrations, to prepare for the celebration of the 65th anniversary of the Great Victory. That generation that fought against fascism encouraged the country, restoring the economy, made the sense of our lives all that we, today's descendants, perceive the peaceful heavens as stability as the independence of our State. It is very important that these parliamentary hearings allow us to do our utmost to gather the veterans, to hear their thoughts, opinions, positions, those proposals that should lay the foundation for a large public programme to prepare for the 65-year victory of the Great War. I think that we will be able not only to restore this status but also to make sure that our veterans feel both respect and moral support from the State. I think it is more important for our country to achieve both peace and harmony, and to understand that we are the one Orthodox people, before the Great Passover – our main Christian Orthodox holiday, saying to one another: “Christ has been resurrected” – “He has indeed been resurrected”. I would also like to refer to the inadmissibility of the decision of the Lviv Regional Council, which was adopted on 10 April, which in fact decided to demolish and dismantle more than 20 monuments to liberators. You know, a more barbaric, ecclesiastical solution that not only degrades the memory of those who liberated the Lviv region. And I am sure that, along with the veterans, we will be able to celebrate the 65th anniversary of the liberation of the Lviv region on 27 July, but also to understand that today the country that is torn apart by the opposition cannot once again go into public conflict and find out what has happened that has been sufficiently difficult, not just our common history. I think that we should all deal with it in a fair way. And I am going to the Attorney-General's Office, the Ministry of Justice, to give this legal assessment, because not only the Constitution has been violated, but also the Law on Local Self-Government, the Law on perpetuating Victory in the Great Homeland War. I would also like to say that, on the eve of this light holiday and in this Hall, there are fewer conflicts, fewer evils, less useful motives for us to understand and realize what we are doing in this sacred function, the duty of serving our people. I am sure that it is very important for us to build, first and foremost, a temple of our own soul, not to divide God, people, and country. In closing, once again, I would like to congratulate you all.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u99	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u100	With the bright resurrection of Christ, we wish you strength, faith, spirit, understanding that hope will always strengthen our strength, and we have indeed built a great Ukraine, a great country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u101	I would like to invite the National Deputy of Kzarkov, a faction of Communists. The following will be the national deputy of Arjewitin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u102	The distinguished voters, at the last plenary meeting in the Hall, were once again given another lie from the orange camp, namely a decree that was tried to rehabilitate the UN-OPA soldiers and make them equal to the status of Soviet soldiers. The future heirs of UN-OPA are increasingly putting into question the rehabilitation of UN-OPA troops in the equation of their status with the veterans of the Great Homeland War. Hitler's servants are trying to become fighters for Ukraine's independence, and the most cynical rehabilitation proposals are coming from the President's mouth, more and more often, especially on the eve of the great day, Victory. And as UN-UPA troops fought for Ukraine's independence, children were increasingly asked in schools. During the war, they served as German fascists, and no independent Ukraine was Hitler going to create. On the contrary, it planned to destroy 70 per cent of the population of the European part of the USSR. Ukrainians, both Western and Eastern, were regarded as inhumans and prepared for them the fates of slaves and Ukrainian local soldiers of the Great Reich. Therefore, UN-OPA soldiers were brutalized for the benefit of Germany and their people, not for its protection. The UN-OPA war on two fronts, both against Germany and the USSR, is a myth. UN-UPA, as an organization in general, has never declared war on Ukraine. All its senior leadership until the last moment was with the fascists. Small clashes with the Germans at the end of the war at their own risk and at their own risk could be conducted by individual field commanders, but this could not justify the recognition of UN-OPA by the party fighting Germany, especially in the German military archives, of the losses of the German army from UN-OPA fighting with the fascists. After the war, the leadership of UN-OPA moved on to Anglo-American content. The West had to slow down the pace of post-war reconstruction of the USSR in any way. For that, the former Fascist entourages also agreed. UN-OPA troops have turned up. They have fiercely resisted the reconstruction of Western Ukraine, terrorized the local population, brutally killed Soviet soldiers, teachers, doctors, engineers and government officials. Involved the Soviet authorities in their immediate response. Not deserved. UN-OPA soldiers were deceived by tales of the West's rapid crusade against the USSR, but who would risk attacking a great country that had a hardened army behind their shoulders would never lose war to either fascists or imperialists. The West has achieved its objectives. The people of Ukraine suffered significant human losses. UN-OPA soldiers once again took offense against the interests of others and against the interests of all the Soviet people. During the Great Homeland War, Soviet troops destroyed more than 80 per cent of the forces of the Fascist Germany, its satellites. Saved from enslavement and destroyed. and the destroyers. His country, including Ukraine. They not only liberated Ukraine and not only the USSR from the Fascist plague, but also the whole world. Therefore, attempts to establish the status of Soviet liberators and Fascist secretaries from UN-OPA are a crime against historical truth, an insult to the participants of the Great Homeland War and a strong manifestation of the fascist nature of the orange power.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u103	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u104	Call upon the faction of the Compartia of Ukraine on behalf of the faction. There's no rehabilitation for the Fascists! Long live the Soviet people, the liberator people! And no forgers of history! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u105	We invite the People's Deputy Stanislav Arzvetin, the faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". To prepare for the people's deputy Gnatkewicz, the faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u106	Stanislaw Arzhevtin, a deputy group “For Ukraine!” From this rostrum, I would like to turn to the many sufferers and greet them with Passover festivals. I know that it is on this very day that our earners gather on Paska from all over the world to meet at one family table for Easter. Happy and Happy Holidays to You! And as they say to us in Zakarpat, the glory of Jesus Christ and the glory of our God forever. At the same time, I would like now to welcome all the Cossacks of Ukraine, who were originally advocates of Orthodox faith. I would also like to welcome the banking system’s employees, who are most likely to be in crisis today. Let's all say together today: Christ is resurrected! Let's celebrate him!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u107	I would like to invite the People's Deputy Gnatkević, the faction of the “Julia Timoshenko Block”.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u108	Respectable compatriots! Just before me was a young Communist named Kzarykov, who called himself collaborators and coworkers with the UPA Germans. I won't tell him anything. One thing I have to say specifically is that my father, Gnatkevitch Vasil Ivanovich, was shot on 13 May 1943 in Dubno by German fascists for trying to set up an underground UPA radio station in the area of Verba. Two days from now, Ukraine, like the entire Orthodox world, will celebrate the greatest celebration of our Lord Jesus Christ. If we truly and sincerely believe in God rather than hypocritically, we need to confide in our conduct and our life with his life and his commandments. When I look at the turmoil in the country and the disunity in this room, the mistrust that exists in Ukraine and in this room, I feel like without God's knowledge, we can't bring the system into our hands. But will God help us if we do not obey him if we ignore his commandments and gifts? Our Lord Jesus Christ was a man, and it is proper for him, like man, to analyze, to be angry, and to punish. I think that if we care about his commandments and gifts, we don't care, that's how he reacts to us. In 1991 the Lord gave us independence. She came suddenly, as if from God, who said to us: “I give you independence, live as the rest of the nations, your state, and love one another.” What do we do? For 18 years now, we've been rolling, fighting, insulting each other. The Lord commanded us the only apostolic church. How many do we have? And they're all hostile to each other, calling for different goals. The Lord instructed us to create the National Movement of Ukraine, which is only 20 years old. And how many parties have we created out of it that are now worthless and incapable of doing anything but proving to each other who's a bigger patriot? The Lord gave Ukraine the best fertile land in the world. What did we do with her now? Now half of it grows with weeds and weeds, whose seeds are carried about hundreds of miles [100 km] by the wind. The Lord says don't steal or kill. What have we been doing? And we were once robbed of national property in the eyes of the entire nation. And Julia Timoshenko's attempt to return money is today called populism. Not only did they steal, they killed. Have we forgotten the numerous reports of killings in Donetsk, Lviv, other cities? There is a concept of crime, and there is a concept of sin. They are punished for their sins and punished for their sins. Here we are atonement. The Lord has given us one of the most beautiful, melodious, songful languages in the world. What do many of us say? We cry: “We don’t need to, we want another, we don’t like this language.” He also greets Ukraine and looks at cities. And in cities there are monuments, playgrounds, and streets called the names of those who planted explosives under God’s temples, who ordered them to rob, to throw bells from them, and to send priests to Siberia who solved the fratricidal civil war and famine. The Lord sees and thinks, "They do not glorify me and the holy good things, but they glorify the great sinners and worship them." And he's reaching a conclusion.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u109	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u110	On behalf of my colleagues in the BUT faction, I welcome all the Ukrainian people with Easter and express the hope that we will love our land and our native language and each other as our Lord commanded us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u111	I'd like to invite the People's Deputies of Andriy School, the faction of Yulia Timoshenko. To prepare for John the Rabbit, the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u112	Thank you, Reverend Mikola Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies, and above all our television and radio audiences. I want to welcome everyone with the holidays that are coming soon. Today, indeed, the most important day before the resurrection is the Passion Friday. Why Passionate? Because Christ went through great passions, crossed the crossway in Jerusalem, and was impaled on the Cross, atonement for our sins. And of course, at this point it's hard to listen to the predecessors' speeches. In particular, the great hater of Western Ukraine of the city of Lviv, Mr. Konovaluk, spoke here and simply, though a holiday, but I say, lied from the rostrum of the Supreme Council. He lied, first of all, without reinforcing any document, but most importantly, he did not say that he had turned to the fact that the Lviv District Council had adopted a document that contained one item that might have puzzled him: to support the adoption of the Law on the Prohibition of Communist Ideology and the Elimination of the Symbols of the Totalitarian and Communist Regime. If he cared about totalitarian symbols, he should have said so. If he's serving the interests of others, I don't know, countries, states or whatever, trying to secure some other symbols, you should have said. None of the statues of the liberator soldier were and cannot be on the side of the Lviv District Council, because they are representatives of the European part of Ukraine, they follow European principles. However, Deputy Konovaluk appealed to Michel Platina as Head of UEFA to ban the holding of the “Euro-2012” in Lviv in connection with the demolition of monuments. First of all, nobody put up with it, nobody planned it, there was no reason for it. So I only view this as a direct attack against the city of Lviv, against Western Ukraine. And I think this position is a Party of Regions, and this quintension to the unloving has been expressed in this letter. If that's not the case, I'd like it to be a denial of the faction of the Party of Regions, so that there's a denial of leadership like this to a bunch of nonsense. Because this is what separates Ukraine. After listening to Konovaluk in the Supreme Council, Zaporezka District Council decides to perpetuate the symbols of the totalitarian regime on the walls of state institutions in connection with respect for the memory of the heroes of the Great Fatherland or World War II. So these are the main elements of disunity. And it's clear that creaters, writers are sitting in another country and behind other walls, beyond the Kremlin walls, I don't know, there's more, maybe he'd answer for that. However, this does not at all befit a normal person with unconfirmed documents, statements from the Supreme Council’s rostrum, or even UEFA’s. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u113	I would like to invite the People's Deputy John the Rabbit, the faction of Our People's Self-Defense, to prepare Catherine Lukyanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u114	John Hare “Ukrainian People’s Party” Dear National Deputies! I want to say a few words to protect our peasants in defense of our village. Instead of intensifying the protection of the agricultural producer during the crisis, and by means of its production, it starts to form a powerful internal market, and a powerful national producer, the government and parliament show total indifference to the peasants. I'm going to illustrate this statement with a few very loud examples. In January, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine adopted Decree No.23 on the Approval of the List of Activities, which extends to the standards of Article 81 of the Law on Value Added. This regulation establishes a standard according to which the agricultural industry is to pay 20 percent of VAT — a value added tax — when selling sugar. It is so impressive that the authorities want to do the same with drilling after they have dug into the animal’s field. Everyone knows that out of a good life, an agricultural enterprise is forced to work in this field under a tax scheme: depositing a beet on a sugar plant, and a sugar plant is based on a sugar business. And then this agricultural sugar company realizes. So we need to know that today, in 2009, sugar is being implemented not only in 2008 but even in 2007. So a person has the right, an enterprise has the right to implement its products under the same conditions as it did when it was growing. No, it's not. We introduce such standards to compromise the enterprise to compromise sugar production. And if we don't cancel this, this year we're not going to sow those 400,000 hectares. What is more, the beet is sifted, even by another culture. And that's going to lead to a lot of damage. That's why I'm asking our Ukrainian-National Party MPs to make a difference to the part about the agricultural producer of the person who makes the beet goes to the sugar plant and takes the sugar and sells it. And the second question. Again, it would be possible to support this area if our two committees, the Committee on Budget Affairs, the Committee on Finance and Banking were more tedious. The government asked them to accept the 2.2 billion dollars use of the Stabilisation Fund, and 246 million dollars were planned to support drilling. So 750 dollars per hectare of beet can be paid to agricultural enterprises. Our committees, I don't know what they're doing, what they're doing, they're only fighting each other, but they don't agree. And every day we lose, it's a financial drain on our agriculture today. That's why I'm the same.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u115	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u116	That's why I'm also calling on the National Deputies, the Chief Executive of the Supreme Council, the heads of these committees and the members of these committees to look at the submission of the Cabinet of Ministers as quickly as possible, to agree to use these funds, and these costs are 2.2 billion dollars from the Stabilisation Fund, and we've supported the village. We need to understand that today the village, which is where we can start the rebirth, is where we can start to block this crisis, and we're doing everything the other way around. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u117	I would like to invite the People's Deputy Catherine Lukyanov, the faction of "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u118	Honorable colleagues, the presiding officer, addressed me to the inhabitants of the ninety - six - six - apartment building in the town of Haisin Winnitsky, in the street of Jętnev, 2 to read their address to the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Litvin Vladimir Mikhajlovich. Dear Volodymyr Mihajlovich, we, the inhabitants of the nine-story 96-bedroom building located in Gaisin in the Winnitsky region on Yellow Street, 2 we hope to assist you with the assistance of the deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, because neither at the local level of the city council nor at the district of the General Administration of the Board of Directors of the Board of State nor at the level of the central authorities, the Department of Construction of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine and the Secretary of the President of Ukraine, have we exhausted all opportunities to reach power with the problems of our building. The point of the next question. In 2007, Nadra was built on behalf of the Ukrainian Ministry of Defence. On September 5, 2007, the President of Ukraine, Yushchenk, solemnly issued warrants for housing for the soldiers of the Haisinian garrison. The arrival of the President of Ukraine in our town and for that purpose was an important event for the city, especially for the happy families of military personnel who received their apartments. Sadly, though, our joy was short - lived, for after the medals were given, problems began. The point is that the house was built with flaws, the main one of which is the water supply problem, had to have an additional artesian well. According to the general agreement of the owner of the house, the “Nadra” and the city council, these shortcomings would have been eliminated in the spring-summer period of 2008. After that, the city council had to take the house on its balance. But it wasn't like the drill was supposed to be unfurnished, the building on the city's balance sheet wasn't taken. It's been almost two years and we're living in the apartments we got, but we can't call them our own. In addition to housing orders, which are only 10 days in reality, we don't have any more housing documents, we're afraid that one day a new Ukrainian will come and tell us to vacate the apartment because he bought our house. Our concern grew even more when in March this year we became aware of the death of the founder of the Nadra Society. The head of the city council, Anatoly Lichguk, and the residents of the house would not speak, so we addressed him with an open letter through the local newspaper The Hajsin Messenger. Our speeches and comments by Hooke’s head were published in the April 2, 2009, issue of this newspaper. In response to the city council head, it is clear that the city authorities will not solve the water supply issue of our house, because the city budget has no funds and will not balance our house. At the same time, in the absence of funds from the city council, a new car was purchased, and several new posts were introduced to the state, which was used to repair the city council. In our view, the problem is not in the absence of funds, the problem is in the other, and this was expressed by Anatoly Lichk, the city head of the City Council on April 3, 2009. They've been given a sloppy apartment, so let them solve their problems on their own. Yes, we received our homes free of charge from the State, but we need to understand that these apartments earned our work, our service to the Fatherland. We are members of the Armed Forces, serving in various regions in the former Soviet Union and in limited troops. The ministry was very often associated with the risk of life.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u119	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u120	And for all of this, the state guarantees us and gives us free housing. The city chief Hooke, when he heard that representatives of our house were present at the session and wanted to bring to the deputies the problem of our nine - story mission with a grip, closed the city council session and quickly left on his new car, avoiding a meeting with us. During the city council session, we wanted to bring to the city council members the painful issue of our house, namely, how and when will water supply problems be solved when a building is put on the balance of the city council so that residents can privatize their apartments and become full-fledged owners of their homes? How can we explain the fact that the city council issued warrants in an unbuilt house? Orders are issued, people are ordered by place of residence, and the city's house is not taken for granted. Why is it that the heating system is used to pay for the heating of the building in the city of Haisin, taking into account the heat loss on the heating lines, even though the gas boiler is installed on the roof of our house. Why is the burning of the house very unsatisfactory, even though the boiler is only working for our house? The temperature in the apartments is between 15 and 20 degrees Fahrenheit [15 - 20 ° C], and the walls and ceilings are flourishing. Why is there no hot water from the air temperature above 15 degrees Fahrenheit [15 ° C] in the bathroom? Batteries in bathrooms for operation in the hot water supply contour Why there are no elevators in the house, even though they are in use, the documentation is handed over to the chief of JECK Novitsky. Why for nearly two years the house was used by the sanepidem station for no water analysis or sanitary treatment. Why the garbage collection is allowed in the middle of the yard next to the site. Sadly, and thanks to the position of the city’s head, Hook Anatoly Illich, the deputies were unable to hear us. That's why, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, we are addressing you and the deputy corps, perhaps with your help, we will finally resolve the issue and we will be worthy of living in our legitimate apartments. With respect, the inhabitants of the building on the street of Jótneva, 2nd town of Haisin, Vinnitsk district.” Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-17-m0.u121	The statement has been completed. I inform you that according to our calendar plan for the fourth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call next week, the national deputies are working in the constituencies. Then we have two weeks of work on committees and factions. The Conciliation Council will take place on May 12 at 9 a.m. The plenary meeting will take place on May 12 at 10 a.m. The following weeks will be filled with festivals and weekends, and I sincerely welcome you and all Ukrainian citizens with the Holy of Christ’s Resurrection. Let the Easter bells sanctify by God’s blessing all good works and bright purposes will help us to carry out noble designs. May this joyful event confirm our conviction that decent work is rewarded with victory and that honest life is crowned with God’s favor. I wish you and your family would experience in these May sunny days the fullness of life, the generosity of Ukrainian land, and the warmth of the family. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Good for you.
