ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Please turn on the "Council" system. [[16:01:39]] There was 391 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. I declare the evening plenary session open. Before you and I are now in the process of considering the appointment and release of judges, we have the opportunity, in accordance with the Rules, to ensure the acceptance of an oath by elected members of the High Council of Justice, that, in accordance with article 20 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, there is no need for inclusion in the agenda. By procedure, please sign up. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u2	Yuri Carmazin. Please give the floor to the People's Deputy Kamchat.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u3	National Deputy Cosemiakin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u4	Please pass on the word he gave me.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u5	Cosmiakin Andriy Anatoliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u6	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, I would like to remind you once again of the events that took place on Monday at the Conciliation Council. You remember, in my speech I asked Vladimir Mikhailovich, after the judges are voted today, there will be a question that doesn't need to be done again, as you say, and an oath by the judge, regarding the employment of our colleague Vlasenek Sergei to the Supreme Council Committee, that he will eventually start working and get paid, yes, because he is unemployed, and I would like to see the status of the national MP, according to the law, that we will somehow comply with the law. Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u7	If we follow, we need a committee and a timetable for meetings. After I get this submission, I'm going to put to the vote on this issue. There are objections to considering the matter, not the consideration, but, more specifically, that you have given the opportunity to make an oath to those who chose to meet with lawyers. Is there no objection?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u8	There's no objection, please, Kiwalov Sergey Vasilovich, on the rostrum, there's a question, I see, MP. Please inform.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u9	Honourable Alexandre Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies, distinguished representatives, yesterday at a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Committee on Justice, a decision was taken: recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to include the issue of the formation of an oath by members of the High Council of Justice: Safulk Sergey Fedorovich, Izvatý Lidija Pavlovna and High Volodymyr Ivanovich. I would also like to report that there were no complaints or warnings to the committee on the day of the committee meeting. At the same time, a fax from the Association of Lawyers of Ukraine came to the committee today with a warning about the legitimacy of elected members of the High Council of Justice. The president of the association asked to postpone consideration of the issue. If that's necessary, I'm ready to read a fax that came in today, literally an hour ago.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u10	In connection with what, Sergey Vasilovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u11	Well, it is written, the management of the association requests that the oath of the members of the Supreme Council of Justice be deferred, since in the future the decision of the Fifth Meeting of Ukrainian Lawyers of 2 November of this year will be appealed to the court. However, I have been able to take a statement from the members of the Supreme Council of Justice who are present here in the Hall, in which they indicate that there are no claims in the courts of Ukraine so far, and the same confirmation has been received from the Assembly.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u12	That is, there are no circumstances that would hinder an oath. In accordance with article 17 of the Act “On the Higher Council of Justice”, I invite you to take an oath on the rostrum of Isavet Lydia Paulovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u13	I, Izboit’s Lydia Pavlovna, have sworn conscientiously, honestly and impartially to serve as a member of the High Council of Justice to ensure the formation of a corps of high - professional and honest lawyers and to uphold the law and ethics of judges and prosecutors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u14	To make an oath to the rostrum, a member of the High Council of Justice, High Vladimir Ivanovich, is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u15	I, Wistsky Vladimir Ivanovich, have sworn conscientiously, honestly and impartially to serve as a member of the High Council of Justice in order to ensure the formation of a corps of high - professional and honest lawyers and the observance of law and ethics in the activities of judges and prosecutors.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u16	In accordance with article 17 of the Act on the Higher Council of Justice, a member of the Supreme Council of Justice, Safulco Sergey Fedorovich, is invited to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u17	I, Safulko Sergey Fedorovich, have sworn conscientiously, honestly and impartially to serve as a member of the High Council of Justice in order to ensure the formation of a corps of high - professional and honest lawyers and the observance of law and ethics in the activities of judges and prosecutors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u18	Hello. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the next issue of the agenda: election and dismissal of the judge. Reports the head of the Justice Committee, Kiwalov Sergey Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u19	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies, the distinguished ones present! The Supreme Council Committee on Justice at its meetings on 21 May 2008, 11 and 18 November 2009 considered the submission of the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the heads of the higher specialized courts on the election of judges and the election of judges previously elected judges, and the submission of the High Council of Justice on the dismissal of judges on general terms and on the release of judges from office for breach of oath. You are well aware of the procedure. The judges are in the guest bed and on the balcony. Order 5347. The committee recommends that judges be elected on an indefinite basis: the Court of Appeal of the Luhansk Region of Kostrzyk Vitali Volodymyrovich; Jankoj City Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Piculu Eduardo Alexandrovich; The Lenin District Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Krasikov Sergio Ivanovich; The Feodosian City Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Terentiev Andrija Mikolaiovich; The Oratov District Court of the Viennese Region of Honcharuk Mikolaiovich; Záostian District Court of Winnice Batrin Olesy Vasilovna; The Yellow District Court of Mariupol Donetsk district of Cmel Olen Leonidivna; The mining district court of Makiyevka Donetsk district of Behruczko, Julius Alexandrovna; Novgorod Volin County Court of the Žitomir district of Berosub Olen Arsentievna; The Popljenian District Court of the Žitomir district of Vasiliev Leonida Antonović; The Colombian District Court of Ivano-Frankiv district of Filchuk Ivan Ivanovich; The Wilshan District Court of Kirovograd, Holsha Oleg Anatoliyovich; The Vradiev District Court of the Sorocan Allu Vasilovna District; The Yellow District Court of the Mikolai District of Loktiono Oksana Vitaliyevna; The Luboshiv district court of Odessa district of Veljilovski Oleg Volodymirovich; The Ravenna District Court of the district of Korobova Sergija Alexandrovich; The Labedina District Court of the Suma District of Guru Antonina Alexandrovna; The Trieste District Court of the Suman district of Linnick Oksana Sergiyevna; Podgajetski District Court of Ternopil Region of Horuz Ruslan Alexiyovich; The Yellow District Court of Kharkiv Cilluric Viktor Petrovich; Jarmolinec District Court of the Hmelni district of Groch Larissa Mikhailnov; Supjanenko Oksana Yuriyovna, Supjanenko, Supjanenko, Sufjanko, Kovalenka Aleksandra Viktorovich, Supjanenko, Supjanenko Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u20	Dear colleagues, I don't see any hands, that is, no questions for those judges who are scheduled for an indefinite election in draft Decree 5043, I understand. I'm putting to the vote the Supreme Council of Ukraine decision on the election of judges. [[Registration number 5343]] I'd like to make a statement. [[16:13:59]] For 354 Decision taken. Next draft of the ruling, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u21	The committee recommends that judges be elected on an indefinite basis: Bahchisarai District Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Janin Igor Albertovich; VOLNOGRARIA City Court of Dnipropetrov, Shapoval Grigori Ivanovich; The Nicolel Regional Court of the Dnipropetrov region of Kobeljak-Shakoval Inna Alexandrovna; Dnipropetrovsk District Court of Krywo Horn, Tkachenko Svetlana Benjaminovna; The Mikitov District Court of Gorlovka Donetsk Region, Miljejka Evgen Dmitrovic; The Kirovograd District Court of Makiyevka Donetsk Region Smélik Svetlana Grigorovna; The Melitopol District Court of Zaporozhye district of Dudu Tamar Mikolayevna; Ivano-Frankiv city court of Ivano-Frankiv district of Kishakevich Lev Juriovich; The Kalu Regional Court of Ivano-Frankiv, Vitwicki Vasil Volodymyrovich, Yakimiva Roman Vasilovich; The Lenin District Court of Kirovgrad Chief Olga Ivanovna; The Yellow District Court of Lugansk Selinsk Mikhail Sergiyovich; The Suvorov District Court of Odessa Stecen Oleg Alexandrovich; The Ternopil Regional Court of Ternopil district of Bagria Taras Jaroslavovich; The Moscow District Court of Kharkiv Orotnikova Romana Evgenovich; Theophilus District Court of Burlak Galin Ivanovna; The Transnistrian District Court of Cherkasa Kazidub Olen Grigorovna; Dniprovsky District Court of Kiev Winnichenko Love Mikolayevna; Kievska District Court of Kyiv Skorina Andrija Volodymirovich; Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u22	Dear colleagues, no comments were received from those judges who had submitted a decision to the aforementioned draft. I'm putting to the vote the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the election of judges. [[Registration number 5357]] I'd like to make a statement. [[16:17:11]] For 351 Decision taken. [[Applause]] Please, next draft of the ruling.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u23	The committee recommends that judges previously elected be elected without delay as judges: The Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine, Zhukov Volodymyrna; the Court of Appeal of the Kyiv District of Rudnichenko Oksana Mikolayevna; Odessa Administrative Court of Appeal Osipov Yuri Volodymyrovich Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u24	No questions to the judges. I'm putting to the vote a draft decree on the election of judges. [[Registration number 5344]] I'd like to make a statement. [[16:18:12]] For 358 Decision taken. Next project.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u25	The committee recommends that judges previously elected be elected without delay as judges: the Court of Appeal of the Medvetsky Region of Medvetsky Sergey Kostinovich; the Court of Appeal of the Dnipropetrov district of Romanyuk Marina Markowna; The Court of Appeal of the Donetsk Region of Tkachenko Tetjan Borisovna Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u26	There is no objection to the nominations set out in the draft regulation. Please have a vote on the draft Supreme Council Decision on the election of judges. [[Registration number 5359]] I'd like to make a statement. [[16:19:09]] For 350. Decision taken. Next draft of the ruling, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u27	The committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine elect Sukhovarov Andrija Volodymirovich as Judge of the Dnipropetrov Administrative Court of Appeal on an uninterrupted basis. In connection with this, the words “Dniprovi’s Administrative Court of Appeal, Sukhovarov Andrija Volodymirovich” are deleted from the First Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Election of Judges of 22 October 2009. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u28	Please explain, Sergey Vasilovich, what this is.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u29	Dear colleagues, the case was that, at the plenary meeting on 22 October this year, Judge Sukhovarov Andrey Vladimirovic had been elected to the draft Translation Order, i.e., earlier election without a deadline by election, instead of translation, he should be elected. We have it in two decrees to keep our decisions clean. I'd like to ask him, he's here again and again. And we need to take out the second paragraph of that order. There he is. Dear colleagues, for this judge.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u30	Sergey Vasilovich, there was just a technical error in the processing of the documents. Yeah, right? Sergey Vasilovich, explain again.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u31	Dear colleagues, on 22 October, 349 people's deputies voted as judge in this Hall. There was no comment on the judge. We included him in the draft decree on translation, and he needed to be elected. I mean, we always have two draft rulings from the Supreme Council. In one we choose in an untimely manner, in the second, we choose those who were previously elected. He was elected for the first time, and to correct that mistake, we decided to bring the judge to justice again. Yesterday, at a meeting of the Committee, we considered the decision and all members of the Committee supported it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u32	Understand? No questions? I'm betting on a draft Supreme Council decree on the election of a judge. [[Registration number 5358]] I'd like to make a statement. [[16:22:02]] For 348 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, on behalf of the national deputies of Ukraine, I welcome elected judges, and I wish you good health and decisions that will not make life difficult for people and for you. [[Applause]] Good for you. Please, the next draft of the ruling is now on the release of judges, Sergio Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u33	The Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine apply for the dismissal of judges: the Court of Appeal of the Crimean Region of Kimstad Pavel Petrovich; Lichakovsky District Court of Lvov Horecksky Anatolia Stepanović; Savran district court of the Odessa district of Borodija Vitali Evstafiyovich Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u34	Any questions for the reporter?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u35	No questions asked. I'm putting to the vote a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the release of judges. Please be sure. [[Registration number 5345]] [[16:23:37]] For 327 Decision taken. Please, next project.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u36	Honorary colleagues, the committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in connection with a violation of the judge's oath to release judges: The Borispoli District Court of Kyiv District of Kornyac Mikola Ivanovich; The Supreme District Court of Kyiv district of Lebezun Valeri Ivanovich
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u37	Any questions for the reporter? Is everything clear? I'm betting on a draft Supreme Council decree on the release of judges. [[Registration number 5360]] I'd like to make a statement. [[16:24:35]] For 344 Decision taken. Thank you, Sergey Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u38	According to the judges? We have all the candidates under consideration. Back to the draft National Budget Act of Ukraine. We don't have any more draft regulations. Enough procedure, we've now discussed the budget and procedure with you in the morning plenary. Dear colleagues, we have a statement from the factions of the Yulia Timoshenko bloc, the "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense", requesting a 30-minute recess. But I have a question, because it's signed by the faction. On this point. Please, Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u39	Dear Alexander Vladimirovic, under the Rules, we can take a recess after consideration of the matter has been completed. Given that we have not considered the issue, and we have all agreed, we are considering the budget, it is understandable that the wish of the BUIT to prolong the consideration of the issue, and it is desirable to bring it down at all. And that's what this is all about. Let's finish our consideration of the budget issue and then they'll take a break. It's under the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u40	Dear colleagues! Sign up for the procedure. But before that, I'm going to announce it. I have a question here. Because the signature of Mikolia Martinenko as the head of the faction today cannot be seen as an authorized representative. When we have a decision by the regulatory committee that he is the head, according to the rules, there will be no questions. Today, with your permission, I cannot believe that he is an authorized representative of the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense." Please log in. Yavorovsky Volodymyr Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u41	I'm asking you to give my word to my colleague at the Sergio Sobolev faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u42	Sergey Vladislavovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u43	Dear Chairman! I understand that you're giving your word out of procedure to members of your faction, so I'll take it in accordance with the procedure. There is one draft ruling that concerns the question of the dismissal of judges. He's been in the Supreme Council for a year. There is a committee decision signed by Sergey Vasilovich Kiwalov on the release of Judge Demchenk from office in connection with the achievement of retirement age. This draft regulation does not require further inclusion, in accordance with article 4, part 4, of paragraph 4. So I would like to immediately put this question to the vote, because for a year and a half, a person has been retired. There's a committee decision. All procedures are in place. So I'd like to ask Demchenko to set up, it's registered, it's an exit number, there's a committee decision signed by Sergey Vasilovich. I'd like to do that.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u44	Kivalov Sergey Vasilovich, please explain. I've never seen such a project. Kiwalov Sergey Vasilovich. Dear colleagues, I understand the correctness of the question. But it was only just now. What I had from the committee, all the projects are under consideration. It's not about inclusion, it's about physical absence of mere submission. Now the others will speak and we will come back to that question. Arzhevtin Stanislav Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u45	Stanislav Arjewitin, group “For Ukraine!” I propose that we complete the question that we have begun to consider.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u46	Thank you. National MP Pisarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u47	Pass the port word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u48	Portnov Andry Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u49	Thank you. Andrew Portnov, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, you have now made a statement that you cannot announce a recess due to the fact that Mikola Martinenko is not the authorized person of the faction "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense", referring to this. It's like there's no regulatory committee decision on this. I would like to point out that until another fact has been proved by the Constitution and the law, Mikola Martinenko is not only the leader of the faction “Our Ukraine – the People’s Self-Defense” but also fully authorized to sign documents on behalf of the faction, including intermittent applications. We believe that in this way there is now an attempt to legalise the absence of legitimate leadership of the faction "Our Ukraine – the People's Self-Defense", so we insist that the signature is fully legitimate and we insist on a break for the decision of the two factions in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u50	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. There are no questions at all about the interruption. The question arises as to how, in accordance with the Supreme Council Rules, if the documents provided, the Supreme Council apparatus has made a declaration in accordance with the Rules. The next question is, if there are claims against people who don't seem to have signed, this committee will set up, properly prepare another declaration, it will be made. As long as it's not there, I'm sorry, we can't react in any way. Please, National Deputy Kamchatny.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u51	Kamchatny, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko”. I ask you to explain to me that there is such a decision by the regulatory committee of Saz.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u52	Please, National Deputy Sas.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u53	Thank you. National Deputy Sas, Timoshenko Street. Alexander Volodymyrovich, I'd like to listen to you. Lavrinovich! Alexander Volodymyrovich, please listen! Yesterday, a meeting of the Rules Committee was held on Wednesday, at the direction of the Head of the Supreme Council, Volodymyr Mihajlovich Lithuania, to discuss material on the events that took place in the bloc’s faction. "Our Ukraine." The committee examined these materials that were provided, and concluded that the document that you announced from the Supreme Council's rostrum was not the decision of the faction "Our Ukraine" and therefore there was a committee decision. Next question. I'd like that.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u54	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u55	As for the recess announcement. I believe that what was declared by the chairman of the Committee, Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov, does not conform to the rules of the Rules. The MPs have written a statement, and you are obliged to declare, in accordance with article 27, paragraph 15, of the Rules, a recess at the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And the last. With regard to the question of Judge Demchenko, you are obliged, as you were guided by article 20, part 4 when making an oath, to put the issue of permanent termination on the table. The discharge of Judge Demchenka's office, because the documents already submitted to the committee in accordance with article 216 of the Rules, according to article 20, you should put the matter before you without a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u56	Please refer to the decision of the Committee that exists, Efraemov Alexander Sergiyovich, head of the Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u57	Dear Alexander Vladimirovich! I did not want the purely technical issues outlined in the Rules to be brought to the debate of Parliament. In fact, the Regulatory Committee yesterday considered this issue, a letter corresponding to it, which we voted for, including the representatives of the BIT faction, we can send you, in the name of Lithuania, it can be signed. However, given that the representatives of BUT have appealed the matter, we agreed that at the next meeting of the Committee we would return to the matter. Therefore, there is no solution as such. If they withdraw their claim, then I'll send you a letter today literally saying nothing about Martinenko's response or non-reaction. There is a description of the drafting of the documents on this issue. Now, about a break that you do or don't do. I think we're going to be completely tactless.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u58	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u59	And may our distinguished colleagues find the rule of the Rules, which states that we must interrupt consideration of the matter in order to take appropriate breaks. We are now considering the budget issue, the main issue for our State. Let's put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u60	Dear colleagues, I ask you to calm down. With regard to the completion of a judicial hearing. I was now handed over a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the release of Demchenko Sergio Fedorovich from office. There's a letter from the Justice Committee. The committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt a draft Order on Demchenk’s release from the post of judge as a whole, signed by the head of the committee. I can't understand why it wasn't filed along with all the other projects. He's here now, really, he's here. Please, the head of the committee, Sergey Kiwalov, what was the problem, why didn't this project get under consideration? Please, the First Deputy Chairman of the Committee, Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich. Please explain to the rostrum. Please come to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u61	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I am the first deputy head of this Committee on Justice, and I would like to remind you that the bill of the National Deputy Soboljeva was already registered, number 2605, was registered on June 5, 2008. In view of the fact that Demchenk’s head was 65 years old on January 21, 2008. I mean, we'll be there soon, then. More loyally, February 21st was fulfilled, celebrating something already. Two. 67 years will be human. The question from the Supreme Council’s rostrum was then reported, but there was no committee decision. The committee made a decision, sent papers here. And anyway, the wires were on the ground that it was kind of the Justice Council that had to file the documents. But the rules of the Constitution, the rules of direct action that can't be and the position of a man who has reached the age of 65. Therefore, the question now raised by the honourable MP Soboljev is absolutely legitimate. And I think now, Alexander Volodymyrovich, we have to vote. There's a statement he's made, everything's been known for a long time. There is a usurpation of the judicial branch of power and the Supreme Council itself does not implement the Constitution, as it looks today. Who benefit from it in the state today? Judge yourself, there is a guarantor in the state, there is the head of the Supreme Court. Everyone is, but no one can achieve the direct standard of the Constitution that 65 years of age should go on deserved rest. I can't understand, there's no political involvement here. Today, you and I released those people who were three days ago, or five days ago when they were 65 years old, we released them. And there's a man in charge, he's in charge, everything else, everything else, everything else, and we're holding a man in this position. Obviously, this contradicts article 126, part five, paragraph 2, of the Constitution, which states that a judge is being dismissed from office by a body that he has chosen or appointed in the event of a judge reaching the age of 65. In doing so, there is no merit in taking away factories, steamboats, or traffic streams, or anything else that has taken place in this court during this time. So this is a very important question. And so that we don't ask you any questions about the creation of another commission of inquiry that happened at this time in the Supreme Economic Court, let's vote. It's a non-political issue absolutely. It refers to the left, the right, the center, all of them. This is a relation to the Constitution of Ukraine, respect for the Constitution of Ukraine in this Hall, respect for it and the judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u62	Question, please, to the reporter. Let's sign up.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u63	What should I ask? There are facts.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u64	Well, there's a question, MPs raise their hand. You have to answer. What are you?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u65	Responsibilities.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u66	National Deputy Jereshko, please. Question to the reporter.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u67	Pass the word to the scribe.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u68	National MP Pisarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u69	Dear Yuri Anatoliyovich, well, obviously, I don't think we need to go into a hard discussion right now for two years of a judge outside the law, outside the Constitution not only takes the judge's place, but he also leads the Ukrainian Supreme Economic Court. So we've had a question of legitimacy for two years about the appointment of judges to this court, about the decision of this court. So clearly, I think we just need to perform the technical function of Parliament and give a person the opportunity to rest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u70	Thank you for asking. I'd like to tell you that there's no document on this gentleman's signature on the committee. So, just so you know, the decisions of the committee that are being made on behalf of the judges are completely legitimate upon release from the High Court of Commerce. We haven't considered any letters from Demchenk. Because the committee made a clear decision in favour of the Constitution. I want to tell you that we have not made such decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u71	Gricenko Anatoly Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u72	Dear colleagues, if the judge cannot read the Constitution, then Parliament must teach this judge to read the Constitution. And immediately vote in favour of getting him out of office. I want to ask the reporter. Is there and what is the committee's recommendation on what position to be in Parliament now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u73	Thank you, Your Honor Anatoly Stepanovich. It's about teaching the Constitution. Evidently, it is a little late to teach the Constitution at 67 years of age. However, you have heard, I will not repeat myself and repeat myself, the words of the distinguished Alexander Volodymyrovich, who gave you a statement from the committee's decision, where it is written that the committee supported the adoption of this decision and the release of the distinguished Sergio Fedorovich Demchenka. Moreover, at that time we felt that he needed to be given a job. All of it. Nobody thought they were playing so much that it's even possible in this state -- to usurp some judicial branch of power. In general, no one thought that it was possible in law theory. It turns out, maybe.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u74	Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u75	Sergey Vlasenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Mr. First Vice-President of the Justice Committee, it is very interesting how the work of the Supreme Court was done in such a way that no document was signed by the person who allegedly headed this important institution came to the Justice Committee. So this raises a huge number of questions that for two years documents were somehow unknown from the Supreme Court of Agriculture and came to the Justice Committee. That's my question to you. And I have a big request to the chairman: to bring to the attention of the Supreme Council the question of my joining the relevant committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. All the documents, as far as I know, are in the chair on the table. And the decision was made. and agreement on this issue was reached at the Conciliation Council meeting on Monday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u76	I thank you for asking. I want to say how. As soon as he started sending letters, we decided that this was not legitimate, and the committee head stopped accepting those letters and demanded that it be signed under the signature of the various responsibilities. I can't tell you what's going on in there, but we do have letters signed by deputies who did their head duties at one time or another. So they're legitimate letters, they're legitimate, I can assure you that all the judges are approved, they're legitimately approved, absolutely all of them.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u77	Pavlovsky’s national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u78	Pavlovsky’s national deputy. Please pass the word to Deputy Prokopchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u79	Yuri Prokopchuk, Equinox. Obviously, this fact is telling us once again who is and how they are fighting, including corruption in the higher judicial branch of power. It is evident that the questions raised in this room, including the return to State ownership of the State of Medjugorje and other gifted ones, as it were, will be directly handled by our great officials through the Master’s Court. That is why the person who is really possible and wants to leave this position is artificially restrained. This is another example of who fights corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u80	There's no question. Klimec, a national MP, passes on the right to the question of Herman Hanni Mikolayivni.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u81	Dear Yuri Anatolyovich, your righteous anger always wishes to support you, you look very sincere in your efforts to achieve justice, but very one-sided, Yuri Anatolyovich. For when it comes to the deputy of Moscal, who associates the positions high in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs with the parliamentary mandate, there is no reason for your righteous anger to be heard. If you'd now offered to withdraw the MP's mandate, take it to Moscow, I'm ready and our entire faction will vote for all your fair proposals.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u82	I sincerely thank you for asking. But what I'm saying is that we're comparing a little bit of different things, not comparable things, I'll tell you why. In the case of the honourable deputies, who are now in three factions, this is especially in your faction, is in the faction of the Lithuanian Block, is in the faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense." In the three factions I said, I don't call the last name today, I don't do pear to these deputies, there's a regulatory committee, there's a committee for that. Thus, unlike them, it is clear from the law that if they do not comply, the head submits to the court and the head takes the decision to appear before the court, and did so. It's not Hermann's head, it's not Carmazin. You heard me, right? And we have Lithuania's head today, so they have the right to file, they've filed. As for Mr. Demchenk, I can assure you that you should take the Constitution and read it, and it says: "65 years" and "dembel" and all. Just like the President's, five years and the Djebel, and a loving desire to keep him in office after the 23rd.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u83	Efraemov Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u84	Dear Yuri Anatolyevich, please tell me when the committee is preparing to consider any matter in the sessional room, who is reporting on this matter. In this case, on the matter that you report, who is designated rapporteur on the committee? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u85	I can't say right now because I am. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm sorry, I got picked up from the hall right now, I have this project because I have this project because I have this project, and my head wasn't in the hall, and so I was asked to report this project, and in this case I did the function. The head had already come in, but you included, remember, it was on the microphone and he went out with the judges because he had just missed so many judges and he was standing so much on the stand. So he came out of the hall right on. Then he showed up, so nothing bad happened, absolutely.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u86	The national deputy Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u87	Dear reporter, Mr. Yuri! Dear reporter, I've come up with a question like this. So for a year and a half, this judge has actually violated the Constitution, and since this is the norm of the Constitution, that is, all the decisions he's made, they're actually unconstitutional and not valid. Please tell me what's behind this? After all, for a year and a half, the judge made decisions, signed judgments, and so forth. Are they legitimate or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u88	Thank you, Mr. Volodymyr, I don't think he's made any decisions. I think he was just writing a resolution, we have evidence that he was taking the resolution, giving instructions. How can we appreciate that? We have a presumption of innocence. I see here a sign of a detail called criminal crime, and I think you can ask questions about exceeding your authority because he had no right to give any instructions, given that. He also received a fine salary. I'm answering the question. So there might be a sign of another crime that I'm now being hinted at by the national MPs. But I don't want to, I'm not the Attorney General, so let the Attorney General do it in an orderly fashion. But there's something else -- there's a sign that we have to get rid of for breaking the oath, that's why we had to get rid of it. And there's absolutely no other body, there's no qualified commission, there's no High Council of Justice, and so on. They are all bound to act in the manner provided for in the Constitution, to carry out the Constitution 126 in particular.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u89	Sit down, Yuri Anatolyovich. Please explain why we did not include the issue today.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u90	Dear Alexander Vladimirović, distinguished colleagues! You know, we have indeed raised the issue of the Chairman of the Supreme Economic Court, Demchenko Sergey Fedorovich, several times during the meeting of the Committee. And our last meeting, which was held on 11 November of this year, we have taken decisions to address the Supreme Council of Justice of Ukraine without delay the question of the dismissal of the President of the Supreme Council of Justice, Judge Demchenko. You know, it's been here for 65 years, and he as a judge has no right to consider any cases. 65 years is of course he has no right, well, to be president of the Supreme Economic Court, but there is one but. Indeed, the Constitution, in 131 articles of the Constitution, clearly states that the only constitutional body that can produce an idea of the dismissal of any judge is the Supreme Council of Justice. We have addressed and, I think, next week, there will be a meeting of the High Council of Justice, and yesterday we raised again at a meeting of the Committee and the President of the High Council of Justice, Izovitov Lidija Pavlovna, told the entire committee that as soon as the meeting of the High Council of Justice is held, we will make a decision. Do you understand how we got in between the rules of the Constitution? Between the rules of the Constitution. [[Applause]] They have fallen because, on the one hand, the only organ that can make a presentation is the Supreme Council of Justice. And I call on the people's deputies, distinguished colleagues, but for a week there will be no decision, next week there will be a meeting of the High Council of Justice, on the same day we will meet the committee and bring it to the Supreme Council. But, look, the longer you wait, the week, the more you can think of, the problem is, there's absolutely no problem. Would you like me to quote 131 of the Constitution?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u91	Any questions for the committee head? Yeah. Please sign in. National MP Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u92	Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Dear Sergey Vasilovich, for almost two years, the issues that we are currently discussing regarding the retirement of the head of the Supreme Court are not being dealt with in this room and, apparently, not by chance. And the person who has no constitutional rights to do so continues to run this court, continues to put the legitimacy of the country's judicial system at risk. Well, it seems to me that it's not that we had it a week ago, we had it a year and a year and a half ago to solve it, and bring it into line with the Constitution. I believe, and our faction has already stated that it is necessary to address this issue immediately, without delay, and to restore the constitutional system in a separate Supreme Economic Court of the country in order not to set a bad example for other courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u93	May I? Dear colleagues, you know, for almost a year, this issue has been addressed in the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Ukraine. And the Supreme Qualified Commission did not give documents to the Supreme Council of Justice. Then, when we raised the issue twice or three times at a meeting of the Committee, we applied to the High Qualifying Commission, and submitted the documents to the Supreme Council of Justice. Today, the documents are with the Supreme Council of Justice. It is a pity that Izotov’s Lydia Pavlovna left today because she would have confirmed that only the documents had been sent. And yesterday at a meeting of the committee, the Chairman of the High Council of Justice said that we would have made a decision a long time ago, but the Higher Qualification or, I quote it “either specifically or technically, but they are filing documents with all violations; that year was wrong; there were no signatures, and only documents have been received, and now the next meeting will be considered”. But we have to follow procedure. We're a parliament, we can't.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u94	National MP Kulczynski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u95	Please pass the word to Yuri Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u96	Yuri Klukkowski, “Our Ukraine”. Dear Sergey Vasilovich, you are a well-known Ukrainian lawyer, Doctor of Law, say, please, as it goes under the control of the Judicial Committee, that the judges who, according to all procedural standards, have to control and ensure compliance with the Constitution and the law, and make an oath here on the stand, and then break this oath, violate the Constitution, violate the law. And it turns out that both the Justice Council and the Justice Committee are powerless because the Higher Qualifying Commission makes grammatical mistakes. Please tell me why the committee allowed this to happen and didn't raise the question of who did these things a year and a half ago. Please tell me why you're not at the head of the High Council today when you're sworn in.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u97	First of all, I want to. Well, I understand your question, I'll answer it. [[B in m in s a l in]] Can I answer that?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u98	Please finish the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u99	Thank you so much for letting me finish. So I want to ask you, in what way do we take the oath of judges, members of the High Council of Justice, and then distribute with our hands when the head of the higher court violates the Constitution and laws in Ukraine. He himself does not apply for retirement and waits for the helpless High Council of Justice to do something about it. You don't think it's time to raise a question about the conduct of the High Council of Justice in this case and about the Higher Qualifications Commission of Judges here at the Supreme Council session because they violate the oath they made before us.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u100	Dear colleagues, first, I want to tell you that Parliament and the Committee do not control the judiciary. Judicial power is a separate branch of the Constitution. You know, we can control if there's a complaint from the citizens who are coming. In this regard, we will sometimes look into it. Second. Judges don't take an oath here, judges do. only members of the Supreme Council of Justice take an oath here in Parliament, and today you have witnessed just that. Second. I want to tell you that in our committee 50 by 50, 50 is the opposition, 50 is the coalition. So I want to tell you that we have raised the question five to six times, and I stress, including with the Higher Qualifying Commission, and with the Supreme Council, that they should present us with the relevant materials. So what? We can't control it. You know, there were a few times when the commission was set up, sent.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u101	Please, microphone, rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u102	In order to verify the complaints made by citizens who apply to the High Council of Justice as soon as we arrive at the District Court of Appeal, the Council of Judges, the Supreme Court is called upon to us, the President, to the Supreme Council of Justice, that we, the deputies, have no right to control the judiciary. I want to tell you that we're constantly asking this question, it's not our jurisdiction. I repeat. We can ask, we can address. It's the same thing. Secondly, no one today notices that for 2.5 years the Council of Judges of Ukraine, without any right or right or right or moral, appoints the Presidents of the courts and Vice-Presidents. We have raised this issue ten times in the committee, but the Council of Judges continues to decide and appoint judges.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u103	Bodnar Olga Borisovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u104	Please give the voice to a colleague of the Sobolje Sergio faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u105	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I would like to remind you that from this rostrum just a year ago, as a representative of five factions signed by the committee on this draft decision, I reported this question. We were guaranteed a year ago, just like today, give us another week and the High Council of Justice will address this issue. How did this end? Because a year after the Supreme Council of Justice came to the fore, a quorum suddenly disappeared on the High Council of Justice. Some of the other members of the High Council of Justice disappeared from the meeting. The same procedure continued for almost a year in the Supreme Court of Judges. So all the assurances, give it another year and it'll all end, nothing will end. We have a colleague of ours in the hall, Dmitri Pritika. He reached retirement age, wrote a statement, an approved decision. The man did.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u106	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u107	Just like all the other judges who are 65 years old do. That's why, I think. That Parliament should also help the Higher Qualifying Commission, the High Council of Justice and the Judicial System once and for all put a dot. And I suggest we put this to a vote. There is a committee decision for which you voted, Sergey Vasilovich, you were in this session, voting on all the factions of all five present in Parliament. How long can this continue? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u108	Here's the question, and the answer. Comment on what? I want to bring you back to 131 articles of the Constitution again. What else can I say?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u109	Arzhevtin Stanislav Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u110	Stanislav Arjewitin, group “For Ukraine! ” Please report to Deputy Stojko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u111	National deputy Stojko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u112	Thank you. Ivan Stojko, group “For Ukraine! ” Sergei Vasilovich, I see you're just-just being tricky. Remember, a year ago Stratovic raised questions about your son - in - law about how he was assigned. And that the judge who today seems to be in charge of the Supreme Court of Agriculture is still being held for life. It's a disgrace to all of us. What we haven't seen in a year, thank God, we've raised that question today. But I'm asking you, please tell me, is it not a question that you've been hiding this decree for over a year, that it is your son-in-law who is running this court, not the judge who is in office today?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u113	You know, in that anecdotes, "I don't have a daughter, but then wash away." So do I. I want to tell you here from the Supreme Council's rostrum, you're kind of a set of words. My son-in-law is a prosecutor of the Kiev district of Odessa. I don't have any other sons-in-law. And you gather all sorts of plots. It's the same thing. And the second. I don't make my own decision, chairman of the committee. There is a committee on behalf of the Committee. They voted for Demchenko. I've made this decision to the Supreme Council. I'm being accused of hiding documents somewhere or not. We don't have that. Please pick your words when you speak!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u114	National MP Pavlovenko. National Deputy Pavlovenko, “Block of Lithuania”. No question. Please, National Deputy Herman is passing on the right to ask Lukas.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u115	Thank you. I have more questions for Alexander Volodymyrovich and even my conviction that today, because there is no decision of the High Council of Justice, which is directly provided for in the Constitution, I am not sure or convinced that you can put the matter to the vote. And I took the line to tell you something else. Today I see our orange section of the hall very much concerned about property issues, including between legal persons. Demchenka's candidature caused this disturbance because the Supreme Economic Court is in charge, but there is an electoral process, and one of the members of the Central Electoral Commission has been 65 years ago in March, and it is you who are blocking the release of a Pisarenk member of the Central Electoral Commission in this room and you are not even letting us put this issue in the agenda. And so far, you're asking Lavrinovich to put Demchenk's release to the vote illegally, and in secret, even in spite of the District Court's ruling that a member of the CIA who has already reached a certain age has been declared illegal. Keep your mouth shut. That's right, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u116	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u117	I ask our “democratic” part of the room to determine what is more important this evening – whether it is the legality of the Central Election Commission's decisions or your property, sorry, disputes and questions. [[in quotes]]
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u118	Please sit Sergey Vasilovich. Dear colleagues, when the issue has been raised, I hope that this is, indeed, just a technical thing that has not been decided. But after such a long consideration, I can see that we really have a legal problem. It's not clear, because, on the one hand, we have a clear violation of the constitutional requirements of the judge, just as we are now reminded, by the CBC member, and the head of the Court of Auditors. So we already have a rather unpleasant tradition of conflict with the basic law. On the other hand, there is also a requirement for constitutional procedure, as is done. I think so. I'm making an offer to the session room. Since this question is about the age of officials, regardless of where they work, it has become such a challenge to us and the possibility of demonstrating disregard for constitutional norms, to ask questions for the next plenary week about the position of all officials who have crossed a line in accordance with the Constitution that allows them to be either in the public service or in the position of a judge or in other positions. Now, in this situation where there is a conflict of two constitutional norms, I don't think we can ask the question of voting. Dear colleagues, we can solve this issue either on Monday at the Conciliation Council, or we can solve it today even in the session room, by voting that we can put this issue into the agenda on a specific day for all officials. Dear colleagues, Mikola Volodymyrovich passed a requirement on to me in accordance with article 27, paragraph 15, of the Supreme Council’s 30 - minute recess regulation, signed by authorized persons, Andrew Cosemyakin and Alexander Tretyakov. A break of up to 17 hours is announced for 40 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u119	Ladies and gentlemen, we continue our evening plenary session. Two factions asked for a break. Please, Sergey Vladislavovich, of these two factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u120	The esteemed chairman, respected colleagues, next year goes on to consider the unprecedented issue in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This is indeed an unprecedented question, for I have cited examples of people who have reached retirement age who are in different factions who are outside the parliament, who have been carrying out their constitutional duty, who have written statements, and who have composed their mandates. And so trying to find a black cat in the black room now, when it's not there, it's just unfair and unfair. Moreover, all references to the kind of decision of the Supreme Court of Judges I would also like to emphasize by fact. The chairman of today’s High Court of Judges, Mr. Boyko, who was the head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, has done his constitutional duty in the same way and has been honored by the Supreme Council for his retirement, which we wanted to do about Mr. Demchenk. I didn't want to talk about it from the rostrum, but it's already becoming the principle of, unfortunately, very unbelievably beautiful of our work. As members of the committee, we were asked that since Mr. Demchenk lacks two or three months to give him an honorable retirement, allow him to cooperate and we will close the matter. It's been three months, six months, a year and a year and a year and a year and a year and a year and a year and a year and a year and a year and a year and a year and a year and a year and a year and a year and a year and a year and a year and a year and a year and a year and a year and a year and a year and a year and a year and a year and a year and a year and a year and a year and a year and a half, it's been the second year, and all the issues have been settled long and a long time, all the issues that have been resolved and the issues that have been resolved with it have been resolved, all the issues that have been resolved and the That's why I introduced the draft decree a year ago, when there were all the reasons for the release, a man could have been pretty well retired, with all the honors. Over the years, a person was to receive all the rewards he needed, but we were once again in a situation where the committee was already in its 20th session, I emphasize, we started and ended with this question. All of the committee's meetings were with the competent authorities that we appoint with you -- this is the High Council of Justice, this is the Supreme Judicial Commission of Judges. What's more, I want to remind you that both the High Council of Justices, and the Supreme Court of Judges are our representatives of Parliament, who, unfortunately, have also taken an active part in blocking the work of these two important bodies. That's why the drafters, none of them, by the way, had withdrawn their signatures under this bill, had reached the final decision of a committee that had not passed through the Supreme Council for a year. The last thing we've been offered, and I've already said that, wait a week, and the decision will be. This was in September 2008. Think about it. That's why we insist, in accordance with the relevant article of the Rules, of the 20th, of the fourth part, and in accordance with the 126th article of the Constitution, where it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u121	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u122	That the body that appoints and discharges from office. Well, what other reasons do we need to do our constitutional duty and help everyone, including the judicial system, to comply with the Constitution? We therefore insist that this issue be voted on, as required by the Rules and the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u123	Thank you, Sergey Vladislavovich. Dear colleagues, I hope we have heard each other break up, because this is about two articles of the Constitution: 126, which is now referred to by Sergei Vladislavovich, and 131st, which in this case is also the norm of the Basic Law to be implemented. I'll sign your letter to the High Council of Justice today. [[B in m in s a l in]] Another issue next week, at the next Conciliation Council, is the question of all officials who have crossed the line. We will not vote because if there is a conflict of two constitutional rules without complying with part one of article 131 of the Constitution of Ukraine, I will not vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] It's not about the Colosseum, it's about what it is. Article 131, part 1 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which states that liberation must take place at the time of the application of the Supreme Council of Justice. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the 2010 State Budget project. Conclusions of the Budget Committee. In the morning plenary session, we found that those Ukrainian national deputies who made their proposals and who were not considered by the budget committee did not insist on their consideration. There was no change in view of these. I've changed. Please, Kožemyakin Andriy Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u124	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, to be honest, we did not expect another decision on your part and our faction. I'm talking about putting or not putting Demchenk away. As they say, history will judge us. And secondly, I would like to ask you to put to the vote the question of how to deal with the budget in the last article, that is, continue the sessions today. Because there are speculations on the part of some factions, representatives of the factions of Parliament, that we, in taking this break, took time not to consider the budget. So I'd like you to ask the question so that we don't part with the Supreme Council until the end of the budget. We're ready to work all night.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u125	Thank you. The proposal made by the People’s Deputy Kožemyakin regarding the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine today on Thursday, pending the conclusion of the Committee on Budgets of Ukraine’s consideration of the matter. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:50:37]] For 186 The decision is not taken. Please, by the factions. Region Party – 0, Timoshenko Yulia Block – 139, Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense – 41, Communists – 0, Litvina Block – 6, non-fractional – 0. I'm going back to the question that I've been asking whether there's been a change of perspective among the people's deputies whose proposals the Committee on Budgets has not recommended that they take into account or insist on their consideration. It's changed. Please, Baby Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u126	Oleg Lazko. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, we have been approved at the meeting of the Committee on Budget Conclusions and Proposals for the draft Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2009 on page 44. It is suggested that these proposals, supported by the committee, be voted on by each of them. And if there are no comments, let us vote on these proposals as a whole, if there are no comments on the suggestions supported by the committee. In order not to waste time, it is in vain to give up so that we can consider his questions today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u127	Thanks for the offer. Regarding the first part of those who were not recommended by the committee, I was convinced that no national MP was insisting on their consideration. As far as the other part is concerned, according to the Budget Code, we should now consider what suggestions the committee recommends to take into account. You have made an offer to do so in general, or separately. There is a proposal for a different order, Kirilenko Viacheslav Anatoliyovich, then Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u128	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “For Ukraine! ” Honourable Alexander Volodymyrovich, honourable colleagues, those proposals made in the Hall on behalf of the Committee on Budgets are flawed in the fact that only one part of the people's deputies who, for some reason, feel that the budget has been adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Another part of the national MPs, which is more than half of the room, deliberately did not make their proposals because Parliament, when considering the project during its presentation, did not make any decisions. Thus, some MPs have been defeated in their rights, which means they have not been able to provide for the interests dictated by the electorate right now. Therefore, it is not appropriate to go in an articleistic manner, on these proposals from the Committee on Budgets, to do so, and more than that, it cannot be considered in accordance with the Code of Budgets. Since the situation is unusual, I would like to propose ad hoc, to vote on those draft decrees made by the people's deputies, including on the way back to the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u129	Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u130	Thank you, Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, let's think about what we're doing to you. We want to accept the budget, we don't accept it more faithfully, because there's no vote that's written on a non-existent basis. You and I are calling on the Supreme Council, and if we are now involved in voting on proposals that have not passed and so on, we are engaging the Supreme Council in anti-constitutional action. Because we're going to be looking at amendments to the law that's written on an illegal basis. Can the Supreme Council afford it? I highly doubt it. So I propose to support Alexander Volodymyrovich. There are draft regulations, I propose that they be voted in order of coming. The first was the decision of the profile committee, and it won 195 or how many votes. Put the second draft of the rulings to the vote, dial it up.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u131	Dear Adam Ivanovich, agreeing with your assessment, I regret that I cannot accept the regulatory proposal. We are obliged to conclude now according to the 41 articles of the Code of Budget and 157 of the Rules. Then we'll have a question, of course, and since it's supposed to go to the budget committee if it's balanced and if none of the proposals are supported at all, it's not settled at all. Then I will ask that we return to the issue of regulations, to the question of how to get out of a situation that is not regulated either by the Budget Code or by the Rules. Therefore, we must complete the procedure laid down in the Code of Budgets and the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Is the proposal of the People’s Deputy Easy supported so that we can consider not every one but all the amendments together? Not supported? Please, National Deputy Lazko. One second, there is then, Oleg Valeriyovich, other MPs have objections, sign up for this proposal by the national MP Ljasko. Bondarenko Volodymir Dmitrovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u132	Please pass the word to Mr. Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u133	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, I have made my proposal in view of the fact that there are no objections to the budget committee's proposals. And because, as we can see, these objections are being heard on one side of the faction, on the other side of the faction, on the other side of the faction, so I'm taking down my proposal and I'm proposing every amendment so that we can look and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u134	Thank you. Is there still a need to exchange ideas? Already. Yes, please. Let's keep going then. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u135	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry to hear many suggestions and would like you to discuss them. Why? The 926th proposal proposes to cancel, remove funding under code 6130,000 for the existence of the Ukrainian Institute of National Memory. Ladies and gentlemen! Please open article 41 of the U.S. State Budget Act and see what is clearly written there. [[These are our colleagues from that side of the hall.]] What do we have? It clearly states that the Supreme Council adopts the draft State Budget Act no later than October 20th. Did we take you in? Why didn't you take it? Because they blocked it! We've already broken the budget code! We're breaking up! You know who blocked it, too. So, ladies and gentlemen, let's give our approval.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u136	Zibenko Peter Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u137	Thank you. Communist faction, head of the Ukrainian Veterans' Council, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, I think that the proposal that Mr. Lazko made as compromise, as the only possible, we can't vote it anymore because we voted on it. We voted on the conclusions of the budget committee, and along with these conclusions were the proposals supported by the committee. So this is actually a repetition of the same vote. Then I repeat the offer made by Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk. Not only do we have a decision that doesn't get the required number of votes on the State Budget project, we have other decisions. Since the previous ruling did not obtain the required number of votes, it is logical that the following decisions will be made and that a decision will be taken. I think I'm going to repeat a vote that I don't. There is no need for a vote that has not obtained the required number of votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u138	Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u139	Dear colleagues, I've been looking at all this filth, and I thought I'd seen it all. Listen to where the boundaries of cynicism are, where the boundaries of the hypocrisy of the government's small subversive group of national MPs are so-called. Please tell me, you can all see, we're not looking at a deliberate blasphemous delay in the budget adoption process. You don't need it. And your government doesn't need it. This is the first time that I've been in Parliament, on the adoption of a budget devoted to the redemption of two men, and they're sitting here, and they don't know what to do with all of you. You tell me there's no budget, there's no government, there's no money, we're poor, we're miserable, let us go, people, home from power, take the bag, don't worry about anybody. You've got everybody! Make the decisions we have. Let's put it to a vote. What are you making fun of us? Is it in someone's ear?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m1.u140	I declare the evening plenary session closed. The morning plenary meeting will begin tomorrow at 10 a.m. And we're going to start by voting on the budget committee's proposals. Good luck.
