ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u1	Please include the “Council” system. There are 392 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. I declare the evening plenary session open. The draft Ordinance on the annual report of the Human Rights Commissioner of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the status of respect for and protection of human rights and freedoms in Ukraine has been finalized after a preliminary review. Registration number 4614. Pavlenko Edouard Ivanovich reports.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u2	Dear National Deputies! In accordance with article 85, paragraph 17, of the Constitution of Ukraine, an annual report of the Commissioner for Human Rights on the status of respect for and protection of human rights and freedoms in Ukraine was presented at the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 24 June 2009. On that same day, the decree was adopted on the basis of 237 votes. On the other hand, on October 21, 2009, the vote did not receive the required number of votes. According to the Ukrainian Law “On the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights”, the Supreme Council, after an annual report, is bound to take a decision, take information to the public and, together with a report, publishes in the newspaper Voice of Ukraine. So far, society has not received publications in the newspaper Voice of Ukraine, the Commissioner for Compliance. Monitoring of the Commissioner for the Status of Respect and Protection of Human Rights and Freedoms in Ukraine. Therefore, I ask the Ukrainian National Deputies to vote in the entire draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine No. 4614, adopted as a basis on 24 June 2009. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u3	Any questions for the reporter? Yes. Please sign in. Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u4	Thank you, Martinuk faction Communists. No doubt we need to, you have already heard that in June we were really looking at the basis, so it's probably time, the more the calendar year ends, the more we accept the bill as a whole. But, Eduard Ivanovich, I would like to remind my colleagues what this is about, so to speak, what was the principle of variance, so that my colleagues will find that they still need to be supported, what is the solution, because there are two. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u5	Well, I'm going to start with the content of the report to everyone who was present at the session at the time, and I'm going to be able to make sure that the report provided concrete examples of the conducts that were carried out by the Commissioner during the previous and current years of the most current issues of human rights enforcement in Ukraine. With regard to the printed analytics distributed to the Ukrainian National Deputies for the preceding reports, they complete the Commissioner’s report, their content for the period during which the analysis is carried out, the valid legislation is not regulated and is the prerogative of the Commissioner for Human Rights. These materials may not even be available, so it is absurd to include comments on these materials in the determination.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u6	Bondarenko Olena Fedorovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u7	Dear Edward Ivanovich! I just want to remind you that after the first reading, the committee had to look back at itself and prepare for the second reading. This was done and the committee decided to support me with my amendment. Why are you not talking about this fact today, but you're saying that you should be approved in the first reading, not in the second reading, after the committee has considered it?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u8	On July 8, at a committee meeting, this draft was considered and the comparative table contains this amendment. However, as the author of the draft decision, it is necessary to note that the substance of this amendment is contrary to article 85, paragraph 17, of the Constitution of Ukraine, according to which hearing of the Commissioner belongs to the exclusive powers of the Supreme Council, which also decides to include the matter in the agenda of the session.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u9	Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u10	Dear Edouard Ivanovich, respected Alexander Vladimirovic, respected colleagues. Yes, indeed, we remember then Nina Carpache's brilliant speech, the speech was quite objective, fair political, very pleasant, politically unattractive. And it is very unfortunate that, for unclear reasons, part of the hall, first and foremost, did not vote in favour of the ruling. And now she's trying to put sticks in the wheels again in the work of the Commissioner for Human Rights and its structure. Therefore, in my view, the ruling that you are speaking of is objectively reflecting the situation itself, the nature of the work itself, it is adequate to the report, it is adequate to the realities of the substance. From your point of view, if you accept the wording you are talking about and the amendment that is being made, what will be your most objective assessment?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u11	Objective assessment, these are 237 people's deputies who supported the foundation. That's the argument.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u12	Bondik Valeriy Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u13	Dear Edward Ivanovich! In fact, we can support this decision in the first reading, because I think that maybe there aren't enough votes in the hall, the MPs are just relaxed, they're probably working in the districts. But it must be welcomed that such a determination was born and, by the way, it is very well written down, and we all know how Nina Ivanovna Karpachov, Commissioner of the Supreme Council, is not involved in the political work of Nina Ivanovna Karpachov, I emphasize, with the rights of the people. This is also a protection against the pirate attacks of our sailors and other matters. And remember when she found this Sergeant Jumel of the Carpathians, she brought him and so on. So I think we can support and ask my colleagues to support this draft decision in the first reading. And it's going to be time to work, because she's not coming now, I think.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u14	I still insist that we accept it as a whole, because the basis has already been adopted by 237 votes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u15	Thank you. Please sit down, Eduardoovich Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u16	Alexander Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u17	Ah, any more questions? Excuse me, one second, hold on.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u18	Dear colleagues, I can't understand what we're doing. So we've already had a few cases where a committee representative is speaking and reporting exactly the opposite things that the committee has decided. Recently, there was a representative from the Committee on Budgets here, and he read some party stuff. So I don't want people speaking from the committee who were talking about their point of view. Or let the view of the committee be, I have a comparative table, we read, we accepted in the first reading, it says here: Bondarenko's amendment, it's written "accounted for". Who brought it? Zarubinski, Pavlovenko there and so on. And colleague Pavelenko says: “The committee has made a decision, but I have a point of view.” So we probably need to hear the committee's point of view right now. If we do not accept the view of the committee, then we think otherwise. Because we are absurd in turning our discussion into a committee delegation with the view of the committee, and he is speaking with his or her viewpoint, so perhaps the committee head will explain. I want to say again, we accepted it on the first reading, now it's just a second reading. So we have to consider or consider the second reading. Or not to consider the amendment and make the final decision that I propose to do second reading now.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u19	Edward Ivanovich, please sit down. Dear colleagues, this draft decree has been approved by us on the basis of this. There's one amendment that came to this project. This amendment is recommended for consideration by the committee’s decision. Does everyone have to read it in front of their eyes? I realized that not everyone has eyes. Amendment of National Deputy Bondarenko Helen Fedorovna: To complete paragraph one with the following paragraph: “to draw the attention of the authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine from human rights to the need for the continued compliance with the requirements of the Ukrainian Law on the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine from Human Rights” in particular article 18 (for the deadlines for submitting to the Supreme Council of Ukraine an annual report on the status of respect for and protection of human rights and freedoms, as well as the content of the report on violations of human rights and freedoms that took place during the year, and the results of the checks carried out during the year. This is the content of the amendment made by the national MP Bondarenko. And the committee recommends taking it into account. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[16:11:36]] For a hundred and Correction not supported. And now I am putting to the vote the entire draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the annual report of the Human Rights Council of the Supreme Commissioner of Ukraine and on the state of respect for and protection of human rights and freedoms in Ukraine. I'd like to make a statement. [[16:12:13]] For-195 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 148, “Timoshenko Yulia Block” – 0, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” – 3, Communists – 27, “Litvina Block” – 15, “Afterfractional” – 2. Dear colleagues, therefore, we listened to the report. The national deputies of Ukraine and the Ukrainian public had the opportunity to get to know her. We are exhausted from this question. We turn to the following issue of the agenda: the report of the Interim Investigation Commission on the investigation of the incident involving the Minister of Interior of Ukraine Lucenka, which took place on 4 May 2009, and other reports of possible abuses on his part. Reported to the head of the Temporary Investigation Commission, Shufrich Nestor Ivanovich. Wait a minute, please, Nestor Ivanovich. With regard to the Rules: I propose that we do not now set separate special rules, and for all the committees we have used one rule that is scheduled to deal with issues in the agenda for the Supreme Council. Is there no objection to that? None. Please, Nestor Ivanovich. Ten minutes -- report. Then there's the answer to the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u20	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies, unfortunately, we all witnessed not only us, but also our country and the people of Europe and perhaps the world had the opportunity to observe the events that took place at Frankfurt Airport on 4 May this year. In line with the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a temporary commission of inquiry was established to examine the circumstances of the incident. Even two committees were established in the Supreme Council of Ukraine to study the circumstances. I want to respond immediately to those who questioned the creation of a commission of inquiry that was created under my headship. As far as I know, there was no appeal to the Constitutional Court, there was no appeal even to the Pecher Court about the annulment of the Supreme Council of Ukraine decision, so the commission of inquiry worked. Unfortunately, we have to say that the four sessions of the commission came exclusively to the Party of the Regions. However, the commission’s management made appropriate requests and requests. In particular, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Prosecutor's Office at the Land Court of Frankfurt-Majne, the Frankfurt-na-Majne police, the Administrative Officer of the Lüfthanza airline, the editors of the newspaper Bild, the Consul-General of Ukraine in Frankfurt-na-Majne Novoslovov, the Supreme and Plenipotentiary of Ukraine in the Federal Republic of Germany, Ms. Zródny, the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, the First Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, the First Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine of Kluvu, the First Vice-Prime Minister of Foreign Affairs of Turkey, the First Vice-Prime Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, the First Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Minister of Ukraine of the Republic of Klavouvo, the First Vice-President of the Federal Prime Minister of the Republic of Turkey, and the Minister of Justice of Justice of the Security of the Security of the Commission. I would like to express my gratitude to my colleagues from the parallel commission of inquiry who gave me the opportunity to participate personally in the presence of our members on the commission, my colleagues Zabzaluk, in meeting with the Minister of Internal Affairs Lucenko. I also had the opportunity to be present and to meet with the Consul Novosololov and with the Commissioner-in-Charge in Ukraine, the extraordinary and authorized Ambassador of Ukraine to the Republic of Germany, Mrs. What has been established? It was possible to establish that around 5:00, Mr. Lucenko was detained for illegal acts, as the German party stressed, at Frankfurt-on-Majne Airport, and was handcuffed to him, and after his refusal to go to the police station at Frankfurt-on-Mayne Airport, he was taken by train. There, in the previous detention cell, he was found by the Consul General in Frankfurt am Main Novosolowy. At the address of our consul, Minister of Interior of Ukraine Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenka, in condition, as a minimum, as he himself spoke, after he had had a bottle of beer, that's what he admitted was what he was able to establish. In that state, he was released from pretrial detention and had already been interviewed in the police headquarters. Yuri Vitaliyovich reported that he had been excused for wrongdoing. Regrettably, the official press office in Frankfurt-on-Majne has corrected the Minister of the Interior's statement and thus we have another information board that the Minister's words do not correspond to reality, in a mild sense, he has once again lied. On July 3, 2009, we received a reply from the Hessen State Prosecutor's Office, who sent a letter to the Consulate General of Ukraine in Frankfurt-na-Majne, where numerous appeals, including the Attorney-General's Office, the Commissions-Investigative, the Embassy of Ukraine and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, were answered as follows. As to Mr. Lucenka, an administrative and criminal investigation was opened under the four paragraphs of the German Criminal Code. But after Mr. Lucenka and his accompanying son had been granted diplomatic immunity as head of the government delegation in Germany as a transit country, he was released and given his diplomatic immunity, the case was closed, and Mr. Lucenko was offered to leave Germany immediately. I will not now point out that Mr. Lucenko is no longer welcome to stay in several countries, including China, which he has already been warned about. Unfortunately, this incident has had very negative consequences for the image of our country, for our diplomatic relations, we've had to give a lot of explanations, but in the world only on television in different countries there have been more than a hundred reports about this incident. Of course, today it is unacceptable that regarding Ukrainian citizens, regarding Ukrainian officials, regarding the minister of internal affairs, who was the head of the government delegation, someone could afford to use physical force and unlawful detention. In the event that these actions were not adequate, if the German side exceeded its authority, we have to apologize for the Ukrainian citizen Lucenka and for the country of Ukraine. Because if these actions were illegal, we certainly need to receive the apology and punishment of those officials who have allowed themselves to act wrongly with our minister regardless of his name, regardless of who he is and how he is personally treated and of what political power he belongs to. But if this is confirmed by the information that Yuri Vitaliyovich was really drunk, how at least did he respond to the beer bottle that he himself recognized. We don't know that he's had another beer besides this bottle, but we do know that he's been chained up, that he's been put in a pre-trial detention cell, and that he's been released from there by representatives of the Ukrainian Consulate General in Frankfurt Main. On numerous occasions, including my colleagues from the parallel commission of inquiry, that he had personally agreed to obtain the documents, we unfortunately did not receive an answer. The Hessen District Attorney's Office, the Frankfurt-on-Majne police, the Frankfurt property court, they're willing to provide relevant information, but they say they're limited, they're limited to the existing German legislation, to provide information about suspects and accused persons, which is what they consider to be Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenko. Therefore, in view of the foregoing and in order to be able to obtain accurate information on the incident, it is proposed to support the draft decree 5387, where we request that we refer on behalf of the Supreme Council of the State to Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenka as a citizen and minister, so that he may give the appropriate consent to receive all the materials related to his circumstances.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u21	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u22	literally one second in order to be able to obtain appropriate documents, study all the circumstances, see which witnesses were questioned by the police party and what was the basis for the pressure on the hands of our minister of handcuffs, and to keep him in prison. The corresponding draft decree is registered, and if the German side, and we study it and establish it, broke the law, they have to apologize both to Lucenk and to the State of Ukraine. If not, we need to draw conclusions according to the materials we will receive, hopefully after Mr. Lucenck has given his consent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u23	Any questions for Nestor Ivanovich? Please sign up. Mironenko Mikhailo Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u24	Dried, please, I give you my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u25	Please, Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u26	Thank you. Nestor Ivanovich, please tell me there's some legal inadequacy. The Frankfurt State Attorney's office handcuffed him, well, he was forced into a cell, and the same prosecutor's office refused to file a criminal case. Why? What motive? Because he was innocent because nothing happened because the police were wrong? Or because he had a diplomatic passport and diplomatic immunity status, that's the first question. And the second. In a letter from the prosecutor's office, once shown by Mr. Moskal on the Inter Channel, he showed a letter from the prosecutor's office in Frankfurt saying no to a criminal case because there were motives. Whether there are facts, well, the misbehavior of the Minister of Interior in Frankfurt. It was just some extra alertness of the German police, which was wrong and the man was tired, they thought he was drunk or something, and so could things. What's in this one?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u27	Thank you for asking. The fact that Mr. Lucenko was arrested, chained and imprisoned was established and confirmed by the Frankfurt Main Police. They confirmed that such actions had indeed been done and this was confirmed by Lucenko himself, at first and by the appropriate special consul of Djatlov, who did not confirm the information on the chaining of the minister's hands, but then after further information had been provided by the Frankfurt-on-Majne police, they had to admit that Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenko was delivered to the place of imprisonment in handcuffs. This was also confirmed in all the answers that we received from our diplomatic representatives in Frankfurt am Main, including the Ambassador of Ukraine, Mrs. Green. The Hessen District Attorney’s Office actually gave the document that Mr. Moskal was talking about, which states that the case was closed but for a reason.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u28	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u29	But the basis for the closure of the relevant criminal cases, and they were violated under four articles, was the establishment in the court of diplomatic immunity of Mr. Lucenk, i.e. he was concealed by the authority of the State of Ukraine, the authority of every citizen of our country, and it is suspected that he thus concealed his drunkenness by hiding behind all Ukraine, which gave him diplomatic immunity as head of the government delegation. Unfortunately, we can't get any other information right now, because if we were to take solely into account the documents and answers of the Ministry of Internal Affairs already in Ukraine, today we would be asking questions about the resignation of Lucenka. But considering that coalition representatives today say that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is acting under Yushchenka's thumb. We want maximum objectivity. We don't want any billing, and we want to get the documents on which Lucenka was detained and all the law enforcement agencies in Germany are ready to give these documents. All we need is Mr. Lucenka's personal consent. I'm absolutely convinced that if.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u30	Nester Ivanovich, enough answers. Question, Sas Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u31	Thank you. Dear Nester Ivanovich, a few questions. For the trailer. First of all, we probably have to go through a lot of laughs like the creation of a commission of inquiry, two commission of inquiry from the same subject. Your commission was created on May 19. On May 22, according to the decree, you had to report. The commission according to the Supreme Council decree was created for three months. I mean, the deadline was long overdue on August 19th. So far, we haven't received anything. We received a report from a commission signed by three national deputies, Schufrich, Chechtov, and another Bondarenko. So whose report is this? Is this the report of the commission or the report of the three national deputies? And one last question. What, though, did the commission set up, specifically, what were the facts established by the commission for more than six months of its activities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u32	Thank you. Dear colleague, I had the impression that you were absent when I began my report from this rostrum. This is exactly what I've been paying attention to. Unfortunately, the representatives, including the important faction of the Yulia Timoshenko, never attended four meetings and tore it apart. As far as you're concerned, smiles. Well, it's hardly up to us to laugh at ourselves, because both decisions have been adopted, registered and act in accordance with the valid Constitution. We have frankly said that we are providing the information and the facts that we have been able to establish on the basis of the answers that we have received from the authorities of Ukraine and Germany who have been able to respond and provide information on this incident. And once again, the main source of information is the report of the Commissioner and the Extraordinary Ambassador of Ukraine to Germany, Mrs. Green. And basically, I don't think.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u33	Nestor Ivanovich, one minute to answer, please be brief.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u34	I don't think we have the right to trust our ambassadors and the consuls-generals, but considering that you probably don't want the coalition to have that face, but unfortunately you won't change it. Because today Lucenko is the face of this coalition. But we're avoiding any charges today. We do not want anyone today to be able to speculate about this and ask Lucenka to consent to obtaining documents. Because from the report of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, he has to be retired.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u35	Nestor Ivanovich, you already said that. Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u36	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Nestor Ivanovich, Nestor Ivanovich, the very fact that there are two committees, where the subject of their research is the same, is certainly unprecedented. But I don't think it's tragic. In any case, if there is a commission and a committee wants to establish the truth, they could even help one another. In my case, I have a question to ask you as to the head of one of these committees that does the same thing. They're dealing with the same issue. Please tell me, did you have any meetings together, maybe you had an exchange of information? Perhaps you have been denied permission by your commission to obtain these documents and given to another commission? I'd like to find out what it was like to say right now, the algorithm of your double work on the same subject, because, in principle, to establish the truth, it was going to give even a plus.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u37	Thank you for asking. In fact, it was still quite surprising that the actions of the coalition minister were checked by the commission’s head of the coalition. Well, it's not ethical, we've never denied that the activities of any fact concerning opposition representatives, or when we were in power, the authorities would study and lead representatives of other political forces. This is politically correct and this is an appropriate ethics, but nevertheless, I would like to emphasize that I am grateful to my colleague the head of the parallel commission of inquiry for allowing me to communicate directly with Mr. Lucenko, and to me the national deputies of Chechetov and Helen Bondarenko as members of the parallel commission in my presence have asked, on behalf of the commission, Mr. Lucenka to grant permission to receive relevant documents on his detention to study the circumstances on the basis of the original sources, not just the relevant ones from the foreign ministry. But sir.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u38	Mountain Irina Anatolyevna, question.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u39	Lukyanov, please pass the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u40	People’s MP Lukyanov’s microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u41	Dear Nestor Ivanovich! I'd like to clarify some questions about your committee's work. First of all, did the fact that Lucenka's minister of internal affairs was being held in a state of drunkenness during the crimes at the airport of Germany? That's the first question. The second question. Whether Mr. Lucenko cooperated and whether he realized his guilt before the state and in front of the citizens and whether he did everything he could to prevent the work of the commission. And if he realized, why didn't he resign, and how did he have to make an officer in this situation? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u42	Only a man is capable of certain things. As for the question you're raising, as I continue to answer my colleague's questions, I want to say that. Zarabinski, I'm sorry, Mr. Oleg. Excuse me, Mr. Oleg. I mean, Mr. Lucenko said that I'm tired of being closed, and you don't need to know why. Sadly, we have found that this is confusing for us today. We have received that the reason for closing the case is precisely the presence of diplomatic immunity from Mr. Lucenk, which confirms the appropriate letter from the Hessen District Attorney's Office and the numerous replies from the Foreign Ministry. And the last. Unfortunately, Lucenko himself was finally forced to admit that he was dragged through the entire Frankfurt airport in handcuffs, held for several hours, about 17 hours before. 20 hours in the holding cell as a criminal. And now we have to establish whether.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u43	Thank you. Please sit down, Nestor Ivanovich. Is there a need to discuss? There's a suggestion from Nikola Volodymyrovich that we listen to the representatives of the second commission now and then discuss it together. Is there no objection? Please, Roman Omelanovic Zabzaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u44	Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with the Ukrainian Supreme Council ruling of 19 May 2009, No. 1339-6 formed the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the circumstances of the incident involving the Minister of Interior Lucenka, which took place on 4 May 2009 at Frankfurt am Main Airport. [[Germany]] The reason for the creation of a temporary commission of inquiry was the proliferation of information in the media about the incident involving the Minister of Internal Affairs of Lucenka. The interim commission of inquiry held four meetings, attended by media representatives. The meetings were attended and interviewed directly by the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and other persons who could provide information directly on the matter. During the work of the interim commission of inquiry, there were no documents that really confirmed the incident, although the correspondence was conducted during the work of the interim commission of inquiry and the total number of letters and replies was 61, including the Attorney General's Office and all other institutions of the State. Suggestions. A report from the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the incident involving the Minister of Interior of Ukraine Lucenka, who took place on 4 May at Frankfurt-na-Majne Airport, to take stock of the presence of the Minister of Interior of Ukraine Lucenka and other members of the delegation of the Ministry of Interior of Ukraine during the registration at Frankfurt-na-Majne Airport for a flight to Seoul in a state reported in the German newspaper Bild of 6.05. In the year 09, no documentary evidence was found that there was evidence of a decision by the Berlin Land Court and no evidence was found in the materials that came before the interim commission of inquiry. [[Germany]] Third. The interim commission of inquiry draws the attention of the Ukrainian Security Service to the inadmissibility of avoiding the full objective investigation of the source of documents with the “Considential” charter for service use, having a direct bearing on the case. Four. To suspend the mandate of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to investigate the incident involving the Minister of Interior, which took place on 4 May 2009 at Frankfurt am Main Airport. [[Germany]] Fifth. To draw attention to the leadership of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the inadmissibility of the further formation of illegal duplicates of the interim commissions of inquiry and, as in the case of the commission headed by Nestor Sufrich, which are exclusively political orders. The head of the Interim Investigation Commission, Roman Zabzaluk. Secretary of the interim commission of inquiry, Igor Alexiev. The vote was held on 15/12 of the current year at the TSC, with the participation of six members of the TSC of the 9 elected Supreme Council of Ukraine. Can I ask you a question?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u45	Are you done?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u46	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u47	Please sign up for the question. Illias Grigory Alexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u48	I'd like a word with you, Schuffritch.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u49	Thank you, Your Honor, for, once again, I would like to express my personal gratitude for the opportunity to be present at the session of the commission you are presiding over. But I have a question for you two. Will you confirm that the decision of the Land Court of Frankfurt am Main applied solely to one fact that there was no appropriate state of intoxication for the son of Minister Lucenk? On the rest of the questions, have they made any decisions? And the second question. Did Mr. Lucenko agree to your personal appeal, which was made in my presence to allow him to receive the commission you led to receive appropriate documents regarding the circumstances of his detention? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u50	I will answer very briefly, distinguished national MPs. In spite of political opposition, under no circumstances can the temporary commission of inquiry be viewed as political persecution or revenge on a person in office. The work of our temporary commission of inquiry, which was legitimate and acted solely in accordance with the procedure, was based on a real task. If the incident was given to us in the form of video materials, which were so often spoken of by individual speakers, the representatives of the order against Lucenka, be sure, the TSC would make the right decision. During the entire period of the interim commission of inquiry, no such material came. You literally recently, Mr. Nestor, said that the whole country had the opportunity to observe. She couldn't see it, because aside from the inexplicable where the material came from, the more the country saw nothing and the stumbles that had been prepared in advance, were apparently ordered by the minister of the interior. Unfortunately, except for.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u51	Roman Omelanovic, finish, finish, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u52	I'd like to contact my fellow national MPs, Ukraine, who are now in the hall, and I ask you if you were forced, without asking me to sign up to the commission of inquiry, in violation of all procedures, would you be indignant? Similarly, Mr. Nestor, writing us down without asking for personal consent, factions, made his commission and ale, a repetition, apparently like Al-Cushko, the seizure of the Henprocuratorium. Because that's how the Ministry of Internal Affairs is affected.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u53	Kulikov Kirilo Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u54	Thank you very much, Reverend Roman Omelanovic. I have a slightly different question, because in this case, as always in politics, we used the family and son of Mr. Lucenk, who was in this very, very fragile state. And it seems to me that we should be here in the Supreme Council, first of all, the conclusions of your committee, to be some kind of ethics about the use of children and the use of children. Because we're gonna throw this dirt in this presidential campaign so much on our heads, on our families. And they don't blame us for being politicians. And the others. It does not seem to you that this emphasis in the Ukrainian Parliament has caused much damage to Ukraine and to all of us who have diplomatic passports. Why I say that because yesterday I was searched in Switzerland with a diplomatic passport, without any right, without any reason, but they did, they found nothing, but I explained that I was a diploma and they had no right to do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u55	Roman Omelyanovich, you have something.?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u56	That's right.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u57	If you think of it as a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u58	Yes, I agree with a fellow national MP, and I want to draw the attention of my fellow national MPs, in our work as a higher legislative body, we should rely on documentary materials and things, including, apparently, trusting in the decisions of the German court, which clearly confirmed that the incident as such had no place in the supply that was being filed by the speakers, the contracting party for just revenge on Mr. Lucenk, and the abuse of his son. We invited Lucenk's son to a temporary commission of inquiry, and we should honor the national deputies who didn't want to, in a large account, morally abuse Lucenka's child, and we let him go, and we didn't allow him to be present at the TSC meeting.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u59	Bondarenko Viktor Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u60	Please pass the word to Bondik Valeria.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u61	Dear colleague! You know, I remembered this four hundredth or verse: "For fools, the law is not written, but if it is written, it is not understood, but if it is understood, it is not so." That doesn't apply to you at all. This applies to the figure for whom the Commission worked. You know, you say political engagement instead of ten minutes, you've given us three minutes. Next. You remember the son, you know, I also didn't want to remember the members of the Jury Vitalievich family when he said in one of the investigative commissions that I worked with that he couldn't come in because of the oncosis of his family, his son. We let him go, too, and we didn't ask him any questions. But the problem is, don't you understand what's going on, what's going on, what's going on here, is the Minister of the Interior drinking or not drinking? Were you him or were you not him? Is he screaming or not fighting like a man? You know he doesn't have the right to work legally in the police department. Ask Gigi, I specifically call his last name, he'll take the line. He didn't even pass the PFL. Which one of us served with you knows what the PFL is. Human beings are inadequate, mentally, they can't control what the Ministry does at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u62	Yes, please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u63	You know, we can't assume today that things like the piano company of both Victors are being used. After all, more recently than two days ago, another brother Victor, the first and second Victor, had been ordered to remove Lucenka. You know, in this room, you can't take offenses like that to senior officials of the state. And I want to stress they didn't answer me today, they didn't answer me how we were taken stupidly and recorded in some virtual TSC, not just asking permission. What are we talking about, what's the legal base? No answer. Next. You go to the Rules so often and so on and so forth, breaking it all the time. Because let's remember the TSC with you, who acted as Mr. Fertash's attorney on behalf of his personal name, by reading the decision of the TSC. And where is that regulatory committee that was supposed to end this lawlessness? I would like to remind you of the TSC on the removal of the “Migir” case, which has nothing to do with the Inter-Igor incident. I want to remind you of Artek, where the image of the entire Supreme Council of Ukraine is here.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u64	Roman Omelyanovich, take a break and finish, please. Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u65	So when we're talking about the Rules, we're talking about a higher legislature, I'm very much asking my colleagues on the Supreme Council not to turn into a "Sapito" circus, which is how two Victors today are trying to turn both the Supreme Council and the Ministry of Internal Affairs into a pocket office. So at New Year's Eve celebrations of democratic patriotic forces, we want to give both Victors and Speakers a gift like this.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u66	Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u67	Dear Roman Omeljanovic, today is not in large measure about Mr. Lucenco or the Minister of the Interior; today it is about the smoldering image and the smoldering reputation of the country. You'd think the minister was thrown on the floor, handcuffed to him, put him in a directory. To date, he says it's not his fault. Maybe that's the way it is. We asked one of them to give us an opportunity to get acquainted with documents from Germany. And from there, the documents can be given with Lucenk's consent. And then, if it is not really Yuri Vitalevich's fault, then we must demand, through diplomatic channels, an apology, a public apology to the entire world of Germany for its smoldering reputation. Stuck in the dirt of the country. That's what this is about. We want to clean up this dirt, but we can only wash it when Lucenko gives us the opportunity to get official real documents from Germany. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u68	I agree with your question, but once again I appeal to you as an experienced national MP. You cannot blame an officer today without documentary confirmation of any other fact. Let's think about how these events were born, what are the videos, what are they broadcasting, what's happening there, what's amazing. And in fact, when we started to analyze and receive, including from the German side, documentary confirmations didn't confirm anything from what we heard on both the Internet and the Supreme Council. Are we going to blame you today without the documents? I don't think so. So after those appeals and the answers from both the Henprocurator and the German side and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the materials that we've received say that we don't have the right to accuse the Minister of Internal Affairs here today. Yes, there may be some questions that we want not only to make such accusations but to act exclusively on the right side. There's confirmation -- we act, we make decisions, we don't -- let's not turn into populism.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u69	Thank you, Roman Omelanovic. Have a seat, please. Please, Giga Mikola Vasilovich, one minute, a line.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u70	Net, they didn't turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u71	Mikola Vasilovich, you're obviously not sitting in your seat.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u72	I'm entitled to a replica. I'm sorry. With regard to the removal of documents from “Migigrin” that the Interim Investigation Commission has removed the documents “Megirrhia” because a request for removal of these documents has been sent by a figure of our commission who is directly involved in the falsification of the materials in the Kolesnik case. So the commission made a decision: delete these documents to make them. And send them to the Attorney General's Office so they don't have another forgery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u73	Let's sign up for a discussion. Gordijenko Sergey Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u74	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. Dear colleagues and respected citizens of Ukraine! What we see and hear here in the session room and we see 18 years of what's happening in Ukraine, even in the worst of dreams, no one could dream in the time of Soviet power. I wanted to ask a question to one reporter, and another to imagine what might have happened during the time of Soviet power with the minister who was working at the time and that it would be discussed in Parliament. There couldn't have been such a thing! When he looks at the Ukrainian people and listens to what is happening and hears these facts, he thinks he lives in "Palette No6". The power of today, which is in our country, after the Soviet period, is entirely the patients of the No6. And today it is necessary to make every effort for the Ukrainian people to change the system of power and to remove forever those who are dishonoring Ukraine and its Ukrainian people. This is suggested by the left-wing bloc and its candidate, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u75	Arjev Vladimir Igorovich
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u76	Dear colleagues! Did you go abroad often, flying planes? And I have a question for you. Are you satisfied with the way you have been treated by European states? I'd like to ask Mr. Kravchenk of the Communist Party, because he felt like he was holding on to German border guards.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u77	Vladimir Igorovich, stop for a second, I have a request to you and to everyone who will participate in the discussion. Please avoid your colleagues' names, otherwise it will take a long time with the lines, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u78	And not just one. and not only one colleague of ours felt the homage of foreign borderers of Europe on himself. But every day, hundreds of our Ukrainian citizens who cross the border feel humiliated, but they cannot possibly stand for themselves because they are afraid. One person was not afraid to stand up for himself, so it came out of a scandal, but for now, in Europe, the Ukrainians realize that they have their dignity and can stand for themselves. The commission in which I also took part in the work is the commission led by Romano Omelanovic Zabzaluk to draw his conclusions, and we came to a very clear conclusion. The commission included representatives of a so - called other commission whose legitimacy was not confirmed. But what do we see today? We see today the clear conclusions of the commission on one side and the double morals of the Party of Regions on the other. You're condemning Lucenka, at first you're condemning her for fighting with Chernowitz, then for an incident in Frankfurt. You're condemning Schuffritch for hitting Lucenka a few days ago? You don't judge. On the contrary, one of your colleagues said a few days ago that the man, Nestor Ivanovich, did everything right. It is a double moral that shows that you have everything for your own and for others. Nestor Ivanovich, I wanted to ask you a question, unfortunately I didn't get it. Please tell me, after your incident with Lucenko, you had the right to stand on this stand and report as a sort of independent and impartial representative of the commission of inquiry, because you have a personal relationship with Lucenk, who has seen the whole country. You even said yesterday you saw Lucenko in a gay club. Nestor Ivanovich, what are you doing in gay clubs, please? And if you have not personally seen him, what right do you have to blame him? So please be either really democratic or stop talking about democracy, because democracy and the Party of Regions are incompatible.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u79	Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u80	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Draft law on simplifying business conditions in Ukraine, draft law on the provision of disabled persons by cars, on the basis of the social protection of disabled persons, on the increase of expenditure on the treatment of disabled children. What we did today is work. What do we do now? I think there's still a few of these investigation committees, regardless of who's leading them, and this joke mask can be placed on everyone. And I personally don't want to do this, and I want to do it if temporary investigation committees are being set up to work so that they have results. I want to and we want representatives of our Block of Lithuania faction that if there's a subject of inquiry by the commission, it's one commission involving all people in it. We want Parliament's work not to turn into a laughing stock. Why this is a mockery, not because our deputies are not professionals, but because they become hostages, right now in a month to the first round of elections, their political party schemes, when they protect each other and they attack each other according to the others, and the others defend others and attack their opponents. We have to stop this, if we worked differently, this list that I called could go on every day. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u81	Kosov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u82	Mikhailo Kossov, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, Party “Reforms and Orders”. Dear fellows, our listeners! First of all, I am interested in the moral side of the matter. Well, I can't agree with my colleagues that, I said, there was never anything in our country, because you can think of one of our leaders banging shoes on the United Nations stand and what was done with Bilokov, what was done with Churban, and so on. So you don't have to say it's, like, the specifics of our time. But again, not only am I interested in this aspect. Colleagues, I don't remember since 1990, since I've been in this room, so, well, you know, we hate each other and our people. The Germans are the exact people. The Germans are a people who are used to thinking facts. I was waiting, well, finally, for something to be published. I followed the matter very closely. No facts were published. Which gives me reason to say that, unfortunately, Bild magazine is not a German magazine. This is a magazine published by someone outside Germany. And it's all orders and reinforcements, if this is somehow passed on to the publishers of this magazine, I want to say again that you are slanderers. Look, when I read that Yuri Lucenka's son had two drinks, some liquor, I didn't first understand how much it was, but it turns out to be 700 grams of vodka. Oh, my God! But do you have a mind?Oh, my God! What are you talking about?Oh, my God! That's why I'm here today to finish the job. The following committees have said their word and continue to draw, you know, some of these hateful tendencies that are associated with it. The Germans don't like us. The whole of Ukraine is covered with German soldiers' corpses and blood, and they, grandchildren, have not forgotten that.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u83	Illias Grigory Alexiovich. Kojara's national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u84	Ladies and gentlemen, you know, it sounded strange to me from our distinguished Mr. Chairman of the commission of inquiry that we had sat down four times and that the TSC report had even been approved. I want to say that three of us from the opposition: me and two of my colleagues Chechetov and Bondarenko were only once on a public meeting of the commission. We haven't even seen this report. So I want to make that point. And to start with that we were not looking at the case of a citizen of the Ukraine of Lucenka. We were looking into the matter of the minister of the interior of Lucenka. And so our relationship was in the sphere of administrative law. By the way, in the area of administrative law, you know, the principle of presumption of innocence doesn't work. And so it wasn't for the commission to prove that Mr. Lucenko wasn't guilty, and he had to prove to the commission that he didn't do anything. And I want to say that of the accusations made in the Bild newspaper, Mr Lucenko has not proved any fact to the committee. Well, first of all, whether he was drunk or not. You know, there's no evidence that he wasn't intoxicated. Moreover, he himself confirmed that he was drinking. And in his execution it was as if he was drinking a bottle of beer. The second is proper behavior. You know, Mr. Lucenko didn't tell us at all that he was doing well at the airport. Even more so, his hand was written that. Rather than him, by the hand of our consul Djetlov, who laughed loudly, he spoke anecdotes. And I have a question about how appropriate this behavior was if of the 400 passengers of Aerobus-340600, only one Lucenka was not allowed on board the plane. Whether it was proper conduct or not. Third. He did not prove that he had not committed a crime under German law. Moreover, I would like to say that in the material of the case that our commission's chairman has also pointed out that a criminal case of ST-0502584 has been committed against the Ukrainian Minister of Police of the 19th Frankfurt Department. And it was cancelled only after the case was transferred from the police department to the prosecutor’s office overnight and the prosecutor’s office canceled on the grounds that the German authorities gave Mr. Lucenka immunity and that, by the way, there was also testimony from the German prosecutor. Fifth, which was of great interest to us. Was it a pity for the Ukrainian-German and Ukrainian-European relations? She was strangled. The minister’s visit to Germany was cancelled and so on. And I want to say that Mr. Lucenko did not agree to cooperate with the commission, did not provide material on matters that he personally has today and on.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u85	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u86	Mr. Lucenko hid the facts that are in his hands today. I also believe that Lucenka's actions contained a component of the crime, since a criminal case was instituted under three articles of the German Criminal Code, namely: Article 115 “Resistance to an official”, 185 “Obrasion”, 223 “Injury”. By the way, I want to say it's in the Ukrainian Criminal Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u87	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u88	Yes, it's also a crime that's been committed for up to two years. And if Mr. Lucenko's actions were to say, please, citizens of Ukraine, resist the Ukrainian militia, he said so. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u89	Zabuc Roman Omelyanovich. None. National MP Lukyanov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u90	Dear colleagues, I would just like to clarify one situation. A week ago, a delegation came to Ukraine from Frankfurt, and more than that, from the Attorney General's Office in Frankfurt, Maine, she held an official meeting at the Ministry of Internal Affairs with the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, and they had a very good relationship with each other, and they exchanged souvenirs, badges, everything else. There was no incident. Moreover, the delegation left with great satisfaction. So I would like to say that if someone says that this has a worldwide resonance, that Lucenko is a non-grat person in Germany, that's not what's not true. It's just a compilation of accounts between the Party of Regions and Mr. Lucenko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u91	National MP Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u92	Please pass the word to Deputy Bobilov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u93	National Deputy Bobilov, People's Self-Defense Party, faction of our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense. Well, from the beginning of the speech, I would like to remind all my colleagues who have probably been out of work for a long time and have forgotten that the PFL District Military Medical Commission is only being conducted with certified staff, and we do not have civilian staff, this time. Here, let's start with this. Well, as far as the incident was concerned, there were commissions working. Of many, all the colleagues who were listening today, the police officers, worked on the commission for six months. In addition, to come here to report that Lucenko's consent to provide, here's the whole commission. We have masseuses that we do not vote on, including the work of the militia. Let's really do business, not do shit. The Commission made a decision. All of it. Let's get this over with. We're all sitting around, talking about empty words. We talked, it's over. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u94	Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u95	Dear colleagues! Remember when this incident occurred and an article appeared in the newspaper. What we're all talking about here must be open-minded, non-political, unbiased, unbiased. And from the point of view of the right, the conclusion is that there was little room, no room. Today the situation is strange, we are heard by Ukraine, we are heard by people, the fact has not happened. Why? Because there's a letter from the Frankfurt DA saying the case is closed. What's the point? Handcuffs, arrests, arrests, layoffs. I didn't happen to ask why the case was closed, did I? Because he has diplomatic immunity. No questions asked. That was the case, wasn't it? And then think about what this nonsense is. We have to ask Lucenko to bring the videos on himself, what's it supposed to look like in this session room? If these videos are recorded at the airport, who will give them to us without Vitalia's permission? No one will give it, Yuri Vitaliovich, without his permission, no one will give it, and it is the right thing to do. He's a person diplomatically intact. I mean, it's different. We've really taken a lot of time, and the Zarubinsky colleague, and the social bills, and you're right to say, the laws on reforming the law enforcement system and the militia, and the Ukrainian Security Service, the judicial system, what are we doing here? We do what we should do and do for us this hard, ungrateful work of the Minister of Internal Affairs himself. Stand up and say there was an incident, and I didn't get it right that none of us at airports abroad had any similar incidents? I remember my delegation in 2005 after the terrible events in the United States. I know that the delegation of the representative of Ukrespecexport is just nervously sniveling and such jokes allow him, they tell him, something is not allowed, maybe there is, maybe there isn't. He was taken away, we flew on, he stayed in Amsterdam. These things are happening, we just wanted to find out whether he realizes it or not, whether it's true or not, I understand everything. I don't have any claims against you, you're trying to preserve the rest of the coalition, it's perfectly clear as well. This coalition is going to break up, and you don't have it, but if it breaks down legally, there's going to be trouble, there's going to be trouble. You can't be a lawyer here today, the more Lucenko doesn't need it, the more he can protect himself, unfortunately, he doesn't. So I had and still had doubts about his truthfulness. I wasn't there, this paper doesn't prove it to me, but the fact that he doesn't want papers coming here that would finally record this problem forever tells me that something was there. If anything has happened, let it remain on their conscience. And yet, Mr. Lawyers, it will be a year or six months before we know the truth, and what you will look like to the people of Ukraine, to society and to political elite. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u96	Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u97	Dear colleagues, today it is not Lucenko, today it is the reputation of the country, it is not indifferent to us. On the commission, Yuri Vitalevich publicly admitted that he had been thrown to the floor at the airport of Germany, handcuffed to him, that his fibres were on the floor, that he had been thrown into a catalog. On our part, it was not the minister who was abandoned; on our part, it was Ukraine that was dumped in the face of Lucenko in Ukraine, handcuffed to Ukraine, that Ukraine was put in a catalogue. And if your destiny and the country's honour are inconsequential, we do not want to demand a public apology from the German authorities for the humiliation of the country, the country's reputation has been squandered. I repeat, Lucenka was not thrown on the floor, Ukraine was thrown on the floor, and you are silent. Therefore, in order to request formal apologies from the German authorities for the public humiliation of the country's dignity, the honour of the world, for which we have a small one, Lucenka's consent to give us documents from Germany, and on the basis of these documents, we have submitted an account, as Mr. Kosiv, Germany, rightly stated, to present an account and let it apologize to Ukraine. Let him apologize! Let him apologize! But the very fact that Lucenko was thrown on the floor, handcuffed, he doesn't deny it. But think about it, the Minister of Germany, the Minister of France, is being thrown to the floor in a country. Would this country be silent?Oh, my God! Oh, no! She would have demanded public apologies all over the world! That's the country's reputation! We'll never get off our knees! We'll be a mess if we can't protect the country's honour and dignity in the international arena! I'm turning to the BUT faction to get you up above your party pants! Look at the side above! Where are we going?Oh, my God! But if we don't protect, who will protect the country?Oh, my God! That's why we're breaking up here in the world's principles. The Party of Regions and the FIT faction will always stand in the name of the country and defend the reputation of the country! Unfortunately, you don't care. You're getting in trouble! Get up! Get up! Get up! Let us apologize publicly. And to that end, make Lucenka give good money to send documents here. And let Germany apologize. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u98	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u99	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I'm so sorry we worked so well with you today. We've adopted three amendments to the State Budget Act. We finally saw that I had what in Odessa? An epidemic of flu that you didn't spend any money on. And when I visited my daughter five times in a row, when I visited the hospital and saw that there was nowhere to lay down, I thought about each of you. Anyone who voted against it. We're done today. They've made a feat, even though it's our job. The same 600 unfortunate millions have been allocated, although this is not enough for health care. What are we talking about right now? Think about it. We made an adventurous decision, so don't let anyone who signed three signatures offend me. That's what 9 people sign for 3. And without the commission's decision, we, Alexander Volodymyrovich, bring it to public attention. On what basis? There has to be a commission's decision. There is no commission decision - sit down and look for a solution, seek agreement. Now, a few questions about double standards. Ladies and gentlemen, not on the face of Ukraine, but when the minister was being beaten on hand. Unless you beat others in the face. We have a protector of the country’s head of the Lviv organization, Paul Barnadysky, who spent more than a month in the hospital. Ask your one-party man, he'll tell you. Nestor Ivanovich, go apologize to the man, it's been many years, he's not bloodthirsty, but excuse him for lying down after you hit him. So, dear friends, let's not do double standards. Keep going. What's going on right now is disunity, that's what's going on. You know, the Criminal Procedure Code has one thing: circumstances that exclude the possibility of an official being involved in an investigation or a court hearing. These circumstances were now: the presence of personal conflicts, personal interests. What example do we set? We demand that a private militiaman remove, if any, from the investigation. We're asking a loving judge, we're asking him to move himself, get a self-registration. [[I greet them once again with the celebration of all judges in Ukraine]] But here in the presence of such conflicts, we do not avoid this case. I don't want to be Lucenka's lawyer, he'll protect himself. But you and I accepted the Constitution, and it says "presumption of innocence" -- and that's the main thing. And I would like to keep that in mind, the honor and dignity of every citizen.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u100	Vasilyev Alexander Andriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u101	Please pass the word to Nestor Schufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u102	Thank you. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! I have an opportunity to answer a number of questions right now. Well, first of all, colleague Ariev, I certainly feel sorry for all of our citizens who have occasionally experienced unlawful acts by representatives of the tax services and law enforcement agencies and the customs services of other States. Yes, there are. And we must protect our citizens from doing everything that anyone who dares to raise his hand against our citizen without justification must be punished. Well, Mr. Ariev, how can we demand that the Polish Customs officials who detained you with drugs be punished? We're silent in the Attorney General's Office not to let anyone think about this, because it's kind of embarrassing for you. Now, about the gay clubs that Mr. Lucenko is visiting periodically, what did you ask me about? So, I learned this information from a website that was confirmed by the respective head of this gay organization, who, in fact, made it clear that Mr. Lucenko is visiting gay clubs, think carefully as a representative of the Social Party. I don't know, maybe now maybe Yuri Vitalevich is visiting them too, I don't know. But it must appear to be a representative of the coalition. So you put all the photos next door, people will know exactly who to vote for. You know, Yuri Vitalevich gave an exhaustive answer to the question of Public People. He said, "Being gay is better than being political. “ I’m You know, maybe the person who experienced the first one, and the fact that he's the second one, we all know, has the right to answer that question. Now, come on, I just answered the questions. Of course, after Friday’s conversation, which took place from Friday to Saturday, I will understand my colleagues by the faction and certainly support the decision, I hope that we will ask Mr. Lucenka to agree to receive the relevant materials and the commission of inquiry would definitely continue its work, but if it becomes a matter of another commission head, I am in favour. And if that's the decision of my colleagues. And the last. Mr. Zabzaluk, you did not answer two specific questions, namely, that Lucenko refused to give you permission to obtain the documents and the court’s decision applied exclusively to the level of intoxication of the son. By the way, I was the deputy who asked for a board meeting to see my son Lunko. I do not want the activities of children to be the subject of political debate.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u103	The discussion is over. The replica. National Deputy Ariev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u104	Dear Nestor Ivanovich! You mentioned my adventures here in Poland, so I can tell you. As a journalist, I've done 12 programs and movies to fight drug addiction, and I've done several bills, including supporting your former colleague in theology for increasing the fight against drug abuse. And what I've done in journalism is you've been stalking me for a long time because Poland has no claim to me. After this case, I crossed the Polish border a few times, and there were no questions to me, and then there were no questions if your racers hadn't stolen a criminal case from Poland, which was then transferred here. I can tell you one thing, I'm clean before the law. And Poles know what a journalist's job is, including at this point doing journalism experiments. And you're using everything you can.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u105	Please. Finish up, all right. Zabzaluk National Deputy, Replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u106	Mr. Nestor! I'll answer you, even though you didn't answer me anyway, how did you take us in and force us, ignoring everything and everything, into your so-called interim commission of inquiry. Even if we just come up and ask, we'll give it or not. There's a regulatory committee that can evaluate these actions, because, if it's convenient, it hits every coma, and there's literally a so-called temporary commission of inquiry -- and there's silence in the empty space. I'm the only one for you, Mr. Nestor. Request: Please do not turn into a session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and do not create in an empty place without any evidence similar to the temporary commission of inquiry. [[in cages]]
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u107	National deputy Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u108	About the show.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u109	I ask you not to ask questions as to who.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u110	As for the show, I want to remind you that it wasn't me who ran masks on this honorary hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine a few minutes ago. So if someone's playing clowns here, maybe those with masks are running from one rostrum to another or from one government bed to the president's and vice versa. Get out there with each other. I want to contact our Polish passenger. So it happened that we didn't ask for anything, and the Polish side, simply doing the right intergovernmental agreements, transferred the matter to the Attorney General's Office, and we're quietly asking that we don't raise it there, because it's embarrassing and embarrassing for you. And with regard to the creation of a commission of inquiry, it was established in the Constitution's terms and terms and in the Constitution's way. And for all decisions of the Supreme Council, at least for the deputies, it must be mandatory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u111	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. Oleg Alexandrovich, there's no procedure here. We have an order in the Rules for making decisions. And in the event of rejection, the following actions are also foreseen. So please. Regarding the report of the commission led by Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich. Proposed draft regulation No. 5387. Please look at this project, who hasn't yet. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, vote on the basis of the draft Decree on the previous report of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council. [[Registration number 5387]] Please be sure. [[17:28:22]] For 196 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 169, “Julia Timoshenko Block” – 0, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” – 0, Communists – 26, “Litvina Block” – 0, non-fractional – 1. So, dear fellows, we had a commission set up on May 19 with a term of action of six months. According to part six of article 88 of the Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, this commission ceases to exist tomorrow. As for the next commission headed by Zabzaluk Roman Omelanovic. The commission or the Ukrainian national deputies did not provide the materials, so you don't have them on your hands, and I don't have them. In this regard, according to part six of the 88th article of tomorrow, this commission ceases to exist, as Zabzaluk proposed. For reasons, please write this down. Stone Valery Grigorovitch, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u112	Kamchatny, “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko”, Kharkiv region, deputy head of the Committee on Rules, MP ethics and the provision of the activities of the Supreme Council. I was just in the hall watching a vote in favour of the reaction of my distinguished colleague Zarubinsky. And I share his concern, his concern, and that's the attitude towards this show that you staged during the vote for a decision made by an illegal commission, a commission that didn't meet and so forth. Therefore, I believe that such shameful acts should be the subject of a special consideration at our committee meeting. Enough of you, Mr. Lavrinovich, to abuse the Constitution of Ukraine and the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u113	Mr. Deputies and those who clap! I strongly recommend reading the Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Basic Law. Ukrainian national deputies, who are subject to the legislative initiative, have the right to propose projects to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. They proposed, the Supreme Council responded accordingly – this project did not provide for the approval of the report of the commission. He predicted a continuation of her work. Hare Ivan Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u114	John the Rabbit of the Ukrainian People’s Party. One more time we've walked, the next time we don't know what's going on, and the Pointicals at the Supreme Council say: “And where is the truth,” and others say, “The truth is the guilt.” Therefore, dear friends, let us do so if we drink — so be moderate — and if you do not drink — let us protect Ukraine’s interests. And this circus is here in the Supreme Council to produce a commission, "what's been done is done." And the second commission -- they're taking out the entire Supreme Council with their heads, they're burning the image of Ukraine, and you don't know where you're sitting. So let us take our responsibilities more seriously, set up commissions to clarify the situation, not to overturn one another with dirt, to lower this level of this Supreme Council. I mean, work -- let's do it humanly, not do it in the election period.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u115	National deputy Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u116	Thank you. Dear Chief! Dear colleagues! I'm really sorry that today, in fact, the coalition and the people's deputies who joined them actually became the roof for Yuri Vitaliovich Lucenka and made it difficult to figure it out, and what happened in Frankfurt-on-Mine? But it will take a little time, and I am convinced that we will learn the truth. Because the closure of one commission of inquiry will not stop the general proceedings and such insolence. And what happened in Frankfurt-on-Mine is definitely going to get a grade. And today we have what we have. Mr. Lucenko is the face of our coalition. And the coalition agreed. And I'm asking you to change all the photos on the election posters, because looking at Lucenka, you're better recognized -- both externally and essentially. This is your essence, unfortunately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u117	School of Andriy Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u118	Thank you. You know, actually, what happened today wasn't really a search for truth. Like the creation of two committees, the second creation commission was not a search for truth. I know that it was a desire to find a pioneer or another opportunity to express myself. But nevertheless, gentlemen, there was much in the Supreme Council, much she had seen. But today it seems to have come to an end. And we have to. I'd like to speak to the chairman. We have to stop here, we have to stop things like this. Because we all have, we're all human, we're all emotional. But for emotion, there are separate stories, there are separate rooms, there are separate ones, I don't know where the institutes and the studios are. Please go to the talk show. Let's not turn, let's not humiliate the Supreme Council. Again, I agree with the reaction of all the ancients, all the people who work in the Supreme Council, but increase their dividends. Let's stop this. Because in fact what has happened has disgraced all of us here. And those who listen but are disgraced by those who put in place similar standards.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u119	Kulikov Kirilo Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u120	Thank you very much. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, I want to say that the words “temporary commission of inquiry” are very important to me. Because it's very difficult to work on temporary investigation committees. It unites members of all factions. And there's a lot of temporary investigation committees that actually work and produce results. For example, I'm working on a temporary commission of inquiry on Kiev and we're looking for consensus. Therefore, it should have been fair to say that this was a decree not made by a temporary commission of inquiry, but by a national deputy personally and that the decree of the national deputy was voted upon, not by a temporary commission of inquiry. That's the way it is. So that we respect the decisions of the interim commission of inquiry and all the regulatory procedures that they carry out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u121	Thank you, Kirilo Borisovich. We don't have a commission, of course, but we have the names of the deputies that we basically have. There are no questions. Vasilyev Alexander Andriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u122	Please pass the word to Mikhail Chechtev.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u123	Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u124	Dear Alexander Vladimirović, distinguished colleagues! It should be noted that, unfortunately, there were no 226 present patriots of Ukraine in this session hall who were able to defend the country's insignificance and reputation in the international arena, who voted in favour of a decree opening up the possibility of obtaining documents from Germany, on the basis of which the Ministry of Foreign Affairs demanded public apologies from Germany for the public humiliation of Ukraine in the face of the Minister. It is unfortunate that patriots exist only in speeches and on paper, and true patriotism has demonstrated two factions and love for Ukraine – a faction of regions and a faction of the Communist Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u125	Replica by Oleg Alexandrovich Zarubinsky
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u126	Oleg Zarubinsky “Block of Lithuania”. Dear colleagues, true patriotism is a job. True patriotism is not about turning parliament into a circus. True patriotism is not about creating or performing a disgraceful spectacle from worse indicators and worse options for a talk show. True patriotism is when commissions work rather than find out what the relationship is. True patriotism is about being a parliamentarian, not just a leap and a random person. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u127	Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, we go to the report of the next interim commission of inquiry. I invite you to the rostrum of Vernidubov Ivan Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u128	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! On January 16, the Supreme Council heard a preliminary report from the interim commission of inquiry and 374 national deputies voted in favour of the previous report and sent it to the President of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Attorney General's Office, the Ukrainian Security Service for appropriate response. A temporary commission of inquiry received the replies of all the authorities, something was being done in the prosecutor’s office, some of the decisions of the defendants. From the police ’ response to 16 crimes involving the alienation of immovable property and land within the city of Sevastopol, 16 criminal cases were committed. There was no response from the President of Ukraine. It ignored the decision made by 374 deputies to send him to take action on the previous report. As you recall, paragraph 2 of the ruling drew the attention of the President of Ukraine to the failure to comply with the requirements of the Constitution, article 117, in connection with the decision of the Sevastopol City Council session to express mistrust to the head of Sevastopol’s city administration more than two thirds of the votes cast by the council. In hiding behind the legal caseuist and the court's decision, the guarantor of the Constitution did not answer why he did not expel his subordinates, the Sebastopol statesmen, who robbed the Sebastopol community and put their lives and health at risk because of the possibility of ending drinking water supply. Covered by the friendly support of the President, the head of the Sevastopol City State Administration, Kunicin, provided a cover for further illegal actions to alienate large areas of land for sale. In parallel with the work of our commission, it was given free of charge, I mean for execution free of charge, for the benefit of various commercial structures and other land areas: a land plot of 5 hectares, located in the centre of Sevastopol; a land plot of 21 hectares, located in Laspi; a land plot of 4.9 hectares in the Golden Beach area of the Bay of Balaklav, is the favorite place of rest for city and city guests; a land area of 6 hectares on Missi Saric, the southernmost place of Ukraine near the Black Sea. In all cases, decisions were made without the opinion of the owners of the land, without being brought to justice, even without any written explanation of any representative of the non - state authorities. Now these last three areas that I've talked about, which are dedicated to our commission at the time of work with you, are being reselled, that is, alienated land for the leadership of Sevastopol City State Administration is just business. Not to mention all the specific areas there, I understand that at night it no longer listens to these hectares, I'll say. Conclusion. In violation of current legislation, Sevastopol’s City Administration has removed and transferred both the use and ownership of the Sevastopol State Enterprise and the Sevastopol State Department. A national land cadastre has been registered with a total area of 1779.6 hectares. It's in Sevastopol. The violation of the requirements of the Ukrainian Code of Land, the sale of land rights from state property to commercial entities was not done on competitive grounds, resulting in the lack of large sums of income from both the Ukrainian State Budget and the local budget. Think about it, I'm calling one number so you don't have to load your memory! Only in granting non-competitive commercial structures 125 acres [125 ha] of forest areas in the Balaklav region of Miss Saric under contracts called the Superflation of Budget Loss of All Levels have some 2 billion dollars been made. [[This is the southernmost point in Ukraine.]] And all you remember is 1779. That's a lot to shout about the budget, there's a lot of budget. Here's the budget, the one who says there's not enough budget for different needs. I would like to express my gratitude to the employees of the House of Auditors, its head, Simonec, Valentin Kostinović, for the competence and courage with which they carry out their duties. [[The only one, you could say, so far, is a government body.]] We often get material from them, and we don't always read it, we don't always get an estimate, then we don't have a conversation where we take the budget. There has also been no change in the distribution of budget funds in the construction of buildings. Same thing. I'm not going to repeat myself, I'm going to tell you the only question that I'm going to propose to you is that I want to write one point: “Give the leadership of the Sevastopol City Administration the opportunity to continue to steal the government's punishment and the land that remains, and wait for this power to change that doesn't touch its hiccups”, but since it's really a joke, it's a draft decision, it's got nothing new here. I propose that you once again draw the attention of the President of Ukraine and the Prime Minister to the absence of concrete measures on their part to halt the illegal actions of Sevastopol officials of the State Administration for the embezzlement of large areas of land and the purposeless use of state budget funds in the construction of socio-economic development sites in the city. In the Supreme Council, it is urgent to consider in the first reading the draft of the Law on the City of Sevastopol. I propose that the Cabinet of Ministers consider at the meeting questions about the implementation of the Cabinet's decree on the implementation of the Sevastopol land reform measures, the reasons for delaying the delimitation of state and municipal property and the administration of the Cabinet of Ministers to allocate funds to eliminate the consequences of an extraordinary situation in the water supply system of Sevastopol and others. The Office of the Attorney-General is invited to further examine all the facts of the illegal alienation of large plots according to the appendix to the report, to give legal assessment of the actions of officials upon the return of illegally estranged land and so forth. And I suggest you listen to the Attorney General's Office on this very issue, because you can see what the size of the state funds and the hectares are talking about, to hear a report on all of these matters. I also propose to the Chamber of Accounts of Ukraine with a view to controlling the first half of 2009, in the first half of 2010, to verify the implementation of measures to address the irregularities and shortcomings detected in the implementation of the State budget, including the costs of the Reserve Fund in the construction of Sevastopol's socio-economic development sites. [[That's what I'm saying for the transcript, because we've written "in the second half of 2009" but since there's no time left, I haven't been able to speak to you for a long time.]] This is because I said that after the previous report nothing was done to recover the stolen funds, including from the Reserve Fund. And to monitor the implementation of this decree, to place on the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine the issue of combating organized crime and corruption. I ask that the Supreme Council of Ukraine vote for such an order. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u129	Any questions for the reporter? Let's sign up. Smithuh Grigori Yudkomovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u130	Ivan Vasilovich, please tell us in your report that in the course of the commission’s investigation, during the investigation, or at that time, 16 were violated, or how many criminal cases were committed. So these criminal cases, how are they now, if you know? And have these criminal cases against officials who directly on your committee been related to the wrongs, so to speak, to make decisions that have caused damage to our state? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u131	There are normal criminal cases. And if they were given a move, as they say, there would be results. Sadly, both prosecutors and courts took that position. Repeatedly, courts, such as the city of Sevastopol, have abolished those criminal orders as illegal. The Supreme Court of Appeal has also overturned such an illegal decision. And so it's been playing for months, and it's been playing for years, and there's nothing. If it was time, I'd read you some motives, why criminal cases don't work. Well, laughter and sin! Such workers, including in the prosecutor's office, should immediately be called on the board and said, "Let's unload the wagons." That's what I have. Read it? If Ivan the Rabbit asks, I'll read it. For example, why, we ask, do not be drawn to criminal responsibility by those who steal? He writes to the deputy, the first deputy prosecutor of Galuk City.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u132	Ivan Vasilovich, one minute to answer the question. If we read the documents, the other deputies will not ask questions. Please give a brief summary of this answer you wanted to provide.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u133	“ It does not seem possible in the absence. the document shall be kept in writing.’. Second, they don't give materials, they write. Well, basically, you see, the prosecution can't take any documents -- one conclusion. And that's why they can't take responsibility, because nobody gives them anything. And, or they say that these millions are, well, such minor violations, you know. Millions is no longer a violation, millions of dollars from the state budget is no longer a violation. These are your motives. Same thing, same thing. But there's someone sitting there, even though they're sitting there, and we don't have anybody sitting there, you know? No check provided. And then they write, right. The crew has false information about the performance of the subcontractors, and they list them themselves, but it's, well, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's minor, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u134	Thank you, Ivan Vasilovich. The question of Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u135	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Ivan Vasilovich, you yourself were the prosecutor of Sevastopol, you yourself were the attorney general's deputy. In your opinion or perhaps there has been such abuse earlier, when the Attorney General’s Office answers that, and the commission finds that no action has been taken to recover the stolen funds, the prosecutor’s office does not use it, this is page 27. This is when your suggestions on page 29 say that land inventory, including land areas in the use of the Black Sea fleet, is not carried out. So there's supposed to be an inventory of 78 land plots. Maybe it's time for us here from the rostrum to listen to the Attorney General, all his deputies, and ask the adult when this is over? And maybe it's time to change the Criminal Procedure Code, where we gave the courts the right to press charges.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u136	Thank you. In the draft regulation, paragraph 5 is exactly what I'm proposing, and I'm asking you to have the Attorney-General further study all the materials, and yet in the first half of the year, here we've heard that we're taking really concrete measures after, although upon returning illegally estranged land and the funds of the state and local budgets. But we have to go back, because everyone, they say, ends up as such a winner of the fact that we've made the submission, well, the submission, the submission, and the ground, they're already there.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u137	Hellhound Alexander Mikolayovich's question.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u138	Dear Ivan Vasilevich, you are twice my colleague as a deputy and as Chairman of the Commission, I would like to ask you, as a person of experience with a very good conscience, whether you have been satisfied with the commission, how much this important parliamentary instrument is actually working today, what prevents us from bringing it into law, so that we can really make it an instrument, an additional resource for our voters, and not to fight for the presidency and a report from the rostrum?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u139	Thank you. This is a serious discussion on this issue. I've called you 374 deputies to vote in order to understand and the guarantor has not responded at all, then the Supreme Council has to dissolve, establish a monarchy in the country, establish either Victor Andreevich or someone, because it's all for nothing. On January 16, we talked about it here, nobody did anything serious, and we can't ask anyone. So that's what we're going to talk about right now, we're going to move on, because since nothing was done then, the commission is working in good faith, and the commission is working in good faith, and thousands of hectares are leaving at large, that's the result.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u140	Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u141	Dear Ivan Vasiljevic, thank you for an objective, detailed analysis, fair and honest, and most importantly, I stress once again the politically unengaged. But I have a particular question about this nonsense. Ivan Vasiljevic, or perhaps the Sevastopol Administration, was forced to submit to the will of the courts and could not have done anything other than sign treaties on land-exposure. If possible, please provide detailed evidence of the interest of the heads of administration in giving land to commercial entities.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u142	Yeah. Thank you. There's so much evidence. Well, come on, do you know how many lawsuits go to get a citizen's station? Months, years. And he walks, then he refuses. These questions, which I am talking about, were resolved one day by one person, the Assistant Chairman of the State Administration did not register anything under the rule of procedure, the Assistant answered by day, denied, of course, no land, could not be recorded. He's complaining in court. Well, it's a criminal scheme, a corrupt scheme. That's how questions are solved. Thus, there is a legal division in the State administration, and no document on the alienation of these lands has been given to them. They've been working on some, on a public scale, brought from Simferopol by their team, some guy named Kostruba, a lawyer who's all solved matters. Today it would seem to be speaking on behalf of the administration, and tomorrow it would be the business that was given the site and so on. What else is there?Oh, my God! I don't know. No unlawful decision of the court was contested by the Administration. And immediately on the same day, they ran to the Notary to give their consent, so to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u143	Leluk Aleksei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u144	Dear Ivan Vasilevich, this is not the first time we have heard the report of the commission. And every time they make a call. But they don't sound familiar. I think it would be interesting for Sevastopols and the people of Ukraine to know anyway who was specifically involved in the allocation of illegal land and who should be responsible. And more. Well, I think we understand and the whole country understands that this power is already considered, time is considered. So please say, and the land allocation intensity has now increased, given that there is very little left before the elections? Or isn't it? Same pace? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u145	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u146	Where the courts eventually, when the work of the commission was under way, our letters continued to be handed down in the end by the above-mentioned courts, they abolished the illegal ones. The department, literally on 1 December, signed the order of the Sevgrad administration to other firms, the names of other firms, to hand over also illegally, without any technical documentation, without anything, the commission is still working, we are sitting here discussing, and at that time documents are being drawn up illegally to give them away. That's the reaction. Signs, of course, First Deputy Kazarin directly, because Kunicin's experience is great, he knows you can't sign things like this, he signs all these things directly. And I think that when we switch powers after January, February, they should be the subject of a real investigation, not like we're trying to force someone. And it's all said that, unfortunately, there's no crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u147	Stonewall Valery Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u148	Kamchatya, Yulia Timoshenko, Kharkiv district. Dear reporter, you know, during your report, it seemed to me that you had a little bit of a mix-up. Because the story, when there was a decision to isolate the land somewhere, reminded me very much of the history of Mezigira in Ukraine. Well, that's true, by the way. I see you're a very great advocate for justice in Crimea and you know the situation very well. And can't you just talk about all the trends, not just Sevastopol? Please tell me how a piece of land was cut off in the Nikita Botanical Garden, and to whom was it placed under the construction of a beautiful mansion? Is it not one of the well-known candidates for the Presidents of Ukraine you support today? Please tell me, who cut the King's Tropic to pieces and now builds it there? Please tell me, who in Glycine, whom we recently discussed, built an illegal three-storey mansion? Isn't he one of the deputies of your faction? Please answer, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u149	Answer. I'm the head of the Sevastopol Abuse Commission. What you said, you didn't name a single fact in the town of Sevastopol. So, of course, I don't know about those facts at all. And I can see that you don't have a question, but you have a pompous performance. Now you take the floor and speak, please say, but that's not exactly the subject of our commission's work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u150	Thank you, Ivan Vasilovich. Have a seat, please. Is there a need to discuss? If there is a need to discuss, please write down. Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich, please. From the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u151	Thank you. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues, you know, I'm familiar with the work of the commission led by Ivan Vasilovich Vernidubov. This is a professional job. And when they say no commission can work in the Supreme Council, that's not true. If there is a serious commission manager, if he can build a job, he can find the facts and make real conclusions. I want to say again that what Ivan Vasilovich said has his confirmation, he has it fixed, the commission has it fixed, and that's why we have to take this commission's work very seriously. But I also have to agree with the previous speaker or questioner and simply offer. I don't know if it's in the form of a new commission of inquiry right now, but there's so much information that the entire Autonomous Republic of Crimea has become the source, subject and object of corruption on land issues -- that's the fact, and no one can deny it. So I would ask Ivan Vasilovich, Ivan Vasilovich, I would ask you, as you have carefully worked hard on this issue, to work more seriously, perhaps we would allow John Vasilovich to extend the competence of this commission, perhaps separately, and he would also carefully, nicely, conscientiously and deeply work with what is happening in Simferopol, in other resort cities in Crimea, as well as throughout Crimea in general. Thank you. I believe that what he has made, the information deserves attention and should be supported and the proposal offered by the chairman of the commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u152	Dear colleagues, we continue the evening plenary meeting 15 minutes before making a decision on this commission. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u153	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! Now, we don't have a legal basis, unfortunately, as far as the commission investigators and the Supreme Council Rules are concerned, but I wanted to thank the national deputy and Verni Dubov, and the members of the commission for the work they've done, even though it's only a small fraction. I'd like to draw your attention to the serious issues of the lack of funds from the Sevastopol City Budget and what is actually happening is what is not supposed to happen in nature. Of course, there is not enough space and the facts that have been discussed in Crimea as a whole and in Glycinia and other problems, but in Sevastopol, in Sevastopol's territory, that's all that goes further from Saric, this is just the beginning of Sevastopol. So this whole area of 125 hectares was given forest areas, what would you think? In Russian, it's called a mogul, a jell-o. There are no more of these forests. Yeah? Acidow knows that there are no more such forests in Crimea or in Ukraine. These are unique forests. And these woods are taken away! And it's not just 125.2 hectares taken away, it's the evaluation that's so far ahead of the commission that it's losing the city budget. losing a billion 905 million dollars. That's what this is all about. You know, I'm sorry, but the commission would still have to say things like that on Sevastopol TV. The members of the Party of Protectors of the Motherland had a headphone for me when today's head of the Sevastopol administration spoke, and he starts counting that one hundred hectares of one of our deputies gets, illegally, almost so many others. That's all we have to do right now. Perhaps that is the answer why the prosecutor’s office does not do so and why the courts cancel the criminal proceedings. This is obviously the answer. And we're not ready to answer these questions yet, the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We can't rise above these flags that hang here, the different political powers, we can't realize that the flag that the state gave us on the hook of our jacket, it's state-owned, it's higher than those utility apartments that were built here by the Supreme Council. Let's get up -- and on this case, let's face it, let's get to the bottom of this, we need to listen to the Attorney General here, we need to invite the heads of the state administrations here, we need to ask questions about the removal of all positions, we need to ask questions about the termination of the powers of those judges who have committed corruption. Thank you. And in conclusion, I have to vote, and I support them.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u154	Stonewall Valery Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u155	Kamchatny, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko”, Kharkiv region. Well, I completely agree with the colleagues who spoke before, especially with Zarubinski, with Karmazin. In some ways, they also expressed the thoughts that I wanted to express. Today's consideration of this issue is, in a way, a lacquer paper for us, for the Supreme Council. And what will be our next steps, which will be the follow-up to order in this very, very important field of land relations, what is going on in Crimea, the embalming, the looting, the drainage of the earth. It will be a test, indeed, of honesty, of morality, of decency for our Supreme Council. I am very sorry if Ivan Vasilovich is asked to continue to deal with these questions because he will face such facts when he finds it very difficult to make a just decision. I've only named two facts today, I've responded to your offer, Ivan Vasilovich, to take the floor. Please take on the subject of glycinia, please take on the theme of the Nikita Botanical Garden. If you tell people the truth, I will personally shake your hand and say thank you very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u156	Ladies and gentlemen, the discussion is over. Let's move on to making a decision. The National Deputies of Ukraine are the members of this Commission, the draft Decree 4689, which is the basis for the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[18:04:59]] For 180. The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m1.u157	The factions, please. Region Party - 132, "Club of Timoshenko" - 1, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" - 5, communists - 27, "Club of Lithuania" - 15, non-factional - zero. Dear colleagues, according to Part Six. The 8th article of the Rules The interim commission of inquiry led by Ivan Vasilovich Vernidubov from tomorrow ends his work. I declare the evening plenary session closed. Tomorrow morning, at ten o’clock in the morning, a plenary meeting will begin. Good luck.
