ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u1	Please prepare for registration. Turn the "Council" system on, we have a roll-up. [[16:02:17]] There are 424 national deputies registered in the hall. I declare the evening plenary session open. Dear colleagues, at the morning plenary meeting of the people’s deputies Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich and Kirilenko Viácheslav Anatoliyovich, made proposals for the inclusion of draft laws on the agenda for today’s meetings. In accordance with our morning agreement, we have studied the situation of compliance with regulations when considering these draft laws when they are registered. And I want to inform you about the state of affairs so that you can make the right decisions. With regard to the proposals made by Viacheslav Anatolyovich Kirilenko It is proposed to include a draft decree to support the award of the name of Vasil Stus to the National University. The project has been presented only today, and the profile committee has not considered all the necessary procedures for going through the Supreme Council's apparatus. Thus he cannot put to the vote for inclusion today. Project 3668 is a draft law amending article 22 of the Ukrainian Act on Basic Principles of State Oversight, Control in the Field of Economic Activity, which was signed up for February 3rd. The committee's decision is missing, the scientific and expert management's conclusion is missing, the vote on inclusion cannot be taken today. Draft Law on Social Protection of Health Care and Pharmaceutical Workers This project was registered on May 22, last year. The Committee's conclusion is missing, but according to the Rules, it may be considered in the session hall, since it has been more than 60 days since the date of registration. I have an offer to do so, because tomorrow we have a committee meeting day, I would like to ask the Health Committee at my meeting, which is scheduled tomorrow, to consider this draft law so that we can include it for consideration on Thursday. Any objections to the initiators regarding this approach? There's no objection. I am voting on the proposal to include in the schedule of meetings for the fourth draft Law on Social Protection of Medical and Pharmaceutical Workers, Health Workers. The author is National Deputy Grigorovich. Please vote. [[16:05:45.]] For 228 Decision taken. The draft law will be considered on Thursday. I repeat my request to the Health Committee at my meeting tomorrow to consider the project. Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko proposed a review today at the evening plenary session of the draft Law on First Instance Measures to Prevent the Impact of the World Financial Crisis on the Beverages. This bill has passed all the necessary rules of procedure, there are all the necessary conclusions, you are given this bill. I propose to put to the vote the inclusion of him in the debate today at the evening plenary meeting after carrying out the mandatory projects that we have to consider in accordance with the decision of the Supreme Council now at 16:00. I am voting on the proposal to include in today's timetable the draft Law on the Priorities to Preventing the Impact of the World Financial Crisis on the Humanitarian Sector. I'd like to make a statement. [[16:07:11]] For 341 Decision taken. Thus, the procedural issues that we left behind for the evening session were resolved. The draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Taxes on Owners of Vehicles and Other Car and Mechanisms No. 3030-1 is announced for consideration. Reports: Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko. In summary, this was the decision of the MPs at the morning plenary meeting.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u2	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! The faction of the Company proposes to adopt changes to a law that today has a very serious impact on the material condition of many car owners. As you know, on January 10, 2009, the Act of Ukraine entered into force “On amending certain laws of Ukraine from the issue of the excise congregation”. This law has in particular amended article 3 of the Ukrainian Law on Taxes on Owners of Vehicles and Other Self-Cars and Mechanisms, and raised the taxes several times. The faction of the company didn't vote for it. For example, such vehicles as the 2.4 - litre engine were affected by low-security sections of the population, and the owner was obliged to pay 1,800 dollars a year at new tariffs, even though he had previously paid 240 dollars. The owners of the old cars are now required to pay the transportation congregation more than those who have a prestigious outage. In times of crisis, it's another kind of machination that's used only for one purpose: to fill the budget again at the expense of people, not at the expense of organization of work. Today, in Europe, also plagued by a crisis, taxes are reduced everywhere. Angela Merkel in Germany even canceled the transportation congregation. Ukraine decided to raise it. We suggest leaving an old engine scale of 1,800 to 2.5 cubic centimeters with old tax rates, an annual payment of 10 dollars per 100 cubic centimetres. With regard to engines of more than 2.5 thousand cubic centimeters, we also suggest that we keep the old stakes, which are three times less than the new ones. Finally, we propose to keep the old tax rates while registering new cars, which are also three times lower than the new ones. Please support the proposals of the Company faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u3	Thank you, Peter Mikolaiovich. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, we need to consult on all draft laws. We voted in favour of a shorter procedure and we have a little bit more than 10 alternative projects. Will we follow the Rules strictly in this case, then each project after the report will be discussed: two in favour, two in opposition? Will we listen to all the reports and then discuss them, but then perhaps we will increase the number of pros and cons? Is this approach taken? Thank you. Draft Law No. 3030-2, National Deputy of Ukraine, Inna Hermanovna Bogoslovska, please. No reporter available. Bill No. 3030-3, National Deputy of Ukraine Seminoga Anatoli Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u4	Honorable colleagues, the presiding officer, article 3 of the Ukrainian Tax Law provides for the construction of a system of taxation on certain principles. Among these are the basic principles of social justice. The essence of this principle is that legislation consists of providing social support to low-income groups through the introduction of an economically based, non-taxable minimum income of citizens and the application of differentiated and progressive taxation of high- and high-income citizens. In our view, this principle was violated when the Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian Tax Laws was adopted on December 25, 2008. And I want to remind you that this bill has been introduced as a bill to amend some of the laws on excise matters. But during the second reading of this bill, there was a question about taxation of the owners of vehicles. This has led to increased pressure on our citizens, especially those who are underprotected. The bill that I propose to accept applies primarily to the reduction in excise duties on cars, cars that are powered by a motor of up to two and a half thousand cubic centimetres, and cars that are in service for more than a year. Given that 13 bills have been introduced today, and I believe that the government bill reflects those proposals that are also reflected in my bill, I'm taking my bill to the government. And I ask everyone to vote, to support in the first reading and in general the bill proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u5	Thank you. Have a seat. Bill No. 3030-4, Ukrainian National Deputy Hubsky Bogdan Volodymyrovich, reports.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u6	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Already, the large number of drafts that have been considered in the respective committees has shown that the problem is of great relevance. I've just been on a work visit to Cherkaszczina, and in all the areas and cities that I've visited, people were worried about this tax and said they couldn't even find the money to pay half the money that was offered to pay for the old law. In particular, a particular concern here was that huge sums had to be paid on the car of Soviet times: “Volga”, “UAZ”, and also “Ziguli”. It is those who have more than two liters of engine capacity and are used for more than eight years. It should also be noted that these machines have been used for more than eight years, and they have had very high tax rates on them. For example, with the registration of the “Giguls” in 95, the peasant had to pay more than four thousand dollars, which was a huge sum for him. As a result, I have proposed to make a number of changes and significantly reduce two things: first, lower the tax rate, and second, instead of eight years, raise the car tax sharply, which is more than 15 years old. This, in the voter's view, would enable the poor to account for their income levels. For example, a price of 300 bracelets per 100 cubic centimetres for cars used for more than eight years, with an engine of 1,500 to 1,800 cubic centimetres, was previously foreseen. My bill proposes setting a rate for this type of transport, such as 15 bracelets. On the basis of this, I think that given that we have a lot of bills, they are uniform in terms of a balanced, professional reduction in the rate, I would suggest that we put them on one bill. This is what I'm doing. And it's on the basis of a bill that the Cabinet of Ministers submitted for the second reading to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u7	Bill 3030-5 is reported. National Deputy of Ukraine Zdirko Hennadiy Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, really, the decision that we made with you at the end of last year has brought about social tension and, in my opinion, we should make as soon as possible those decisions that will help us to make these decisions. My bill provides, on the one hand, that we understand that it is necessary to fill in the budget, but the social component of this process should certainly be in those bills or in this bill. So we offer to unify and offer up to 1,000 cubic meters 3 bracelets to pay, up to 1,500 cubic meters to 5 rubles, up to 1,800 cubic meters to 7 rubles, and 1,800 to 2,500 cubic meters to pay 10 rubles. In our view, it will allow the unprotected population to remove this social tension and actually remove it, but it will allow the budget to be filled. Our bill also seeks that, in fact, new cars that will be purchased in Ukraine can be and remain at the registration rates proposed by the government, and our bill concerns only those cars that have already been imported into Ukraine that have already been registered. So that's the whole point of this bill. Today, however, the committee that considered this issue revealed a great deal of processes and questions that might need to be addressed.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u9	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u10	This is actually a question of administration of this tax. The thing is, this tax seems to exist, and it's kind of gone. How it's used, how it's not going to be a secret that, in principle, in DAI's organs when you go through technical examinations, you buy such certificates. And it seems to me that the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economics, should approach the congregation and the administration of this tax fairly carefully and bring some order in this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u11	There's a report on bill 3030-8. First Deputy Finance Minister Igor Ivanovich Umanski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u12	Good afternoon. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, honourable members of the people, allow me to present to you a bill of government. All of us have witnessed those actions that were a while ago, and those requirements that the Cabinet of Ministers considered, and those compromises that each of the desirable subjects of the legislative initiative for today are presented for consideration. I would like to inform the honourable national MPs that the Cabinet of Ministers has held a series of meetings with the initiative group from the representatives of the autoowners and has offered you a compromise version of the draft law, which, on the one hand, allows you to save resources for the local authorities. The only thing I would like to pay particular attention to is that the decision you make is directly linked to the ability of local authorities to build public roads. This tax is the main source of financing for the construction of public roads. On the roads of state importance is a special State Budget Fund, funded by other sources. This tax, however, allows us all with you in one way or another to provide either comfortable or not always comfortable transporting our cities and villages. We also suggested, and this was the proposal of the authors from the initial group of car owners, some lower coefficients for cars that have an engine capacity of more than 2.5 liters and which.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u13	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u14	And they've been around for a while now. We believe that a similar tool will still allow us to remove the tension in society and resolve the issue for the benefit of the State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u15	Thank you. Have a seat, please. There's a report on bill 3030-9. Ukrainian National Deputy Catherinechuk Mikola Dmitrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u16	Mikola Catherinechuk, European Party of Ukraine, faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! I'm introducing Bill 3030-9. This project refers to amendments to certain laws on taxation of means of transport. Our proposal is to cancel the existing insufficiently well-founded taxes on transport owners and return to the old rates. I am convinced that today any citizen in our country deserves to have both the government and most, and the Supreme Council as his ally in crisis situations, and therefore irresponsible initiatives, which are “increasing” in the pockets of Ukrainian citizens, are totally unacceptable. On our part, we understand that the minister. The Ministry of Finance has to work on a separate mechanism for the administration of this tax and there have been proposals for the inclusion of this tax due to the cost of fuel, but there are shortcomings in any proposal and there are advantages to it, so I'm sure the Ministry of Finance needs to finalize this bill and submit it accordingly after some public discussion. Today, we are all obliged to decide on the cancellation of existing rates, which were taken in haste by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you. And I'm counting on your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u17	There's a report on the bill 3030-10. Terjehohin Sergey Anatoliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u18	Dear colleagues, good afternoon. Even though my bill is the most brilliant of all 12, I'm shooting it for the government's sake.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u19	Thank you. There's a report on bill 3030-11. National deputy of Ukraine, Polishchuk Oleg Viktorovich, reports. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President, I am withdrawing my bill in favour of taking a decision on the basis of the Simonnka Martiniuk bill and creating a working group that deals with all the wishes of all deputies aimed at not leaving the local roads at no cost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u21	Thank you. There's a report on bill 3030-13. National Deputy of Ukraine Socko Alexander Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u22	Dear colleagues, the chairman made a mistake: the bill number 3030-12. The bill proposes to abolish old approaches to tax collection from the owners of transport vehicles under codes 8701 to 8711 by cancelling it in terms of engine cylinders, while setting it at 6 per cent of the value of the sold motor fuel to end consumers, which is to be recorded in the accounting and accounting documents of the taxpayers that implement it. I won't be paying any further attention to you. We just had this bill discussed on the profile committee. He really needs a very serious approach: changes in the concept of the collection of this type of tax from the owners of the means of transport. And actually, I think it's going to take some time to work on it. And I'm filming my bill on behalf of the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u23	Thank you. Have a seat, please. I'm sorry, I really said 13, instead of number 12, but we have an unprecedented case, 14 alternative projects that don't happen very often in the Supreme Council. And now there will be a draft law of 3030-13 and a national deputy of Ukraine, Koval Vjacheslav Stanislavovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u24	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies! National Deputy Koval, National Movement of Ukraine, faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear colleagues, there's an option, a bill that looks at this problem differently and proposes other mechanisms to fill the budget and resolve those public issues that are related to the use of road transport, environmental problems, road problems and so on. A new version of the Law on Taxation by Owners of Means of Transportation requires the removal of tax discrimination by introducing a new principle of paying taxes. The one driving, the one driving, is responsible for spoiling the roadways, the ecology. And whoever corrupts them has to pay for it. Under such conditions, each tax payer will pay for the actual number of miles he has traveled, the usually damaged meters of roads, and the polluted air. The main task of the bill is to prevent any form of discrimination against all owners of vehicles and other machines and mechanisms, as well as to establish a real tax that will not depend on the engine's volume and cost. Moreover, taxes on it have long been paid when it is purchased, only from the amount of fuel that is actually burned. Clearly, the more the engine’s volume, the more the fuel will be burned, the more tax deductions will be, and so on. But the mechanism proposed in this bill is that when a person buys a liter of fuel, he has to pay the taxes for the expenses I've talked about -- roads and ecology. So actually, this bill is the only alternative bill for the 12th or 13ths that have already been passed, whether they will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u25	Finish up, Vjacheslav Stanislavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u26	I'm done. That's why I'm asking. And one more point: we propose to introduce this bill from 1 January 2010 so that this year no longer interferes with the budget process, the process of filling the budget with revenue. But since 2010, all the transporters, all the owners of the means of transport, have demanded a just bill, a just law, where everyone will be equal as it is under the Constitution. We are all equal before the law and the Constitution of Ukraine. So please support this bill in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u27	Thank you, sit down, please. There's a report on bill 3030-14. National Deputy of Ukraine Suškević Valeriy Mihajlovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u28	There's no report. So we finished the presentation. I'd like to invite you from the committee for the co-reporting of Terjehohine Sergey Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u29	Dear National Deputies! The Committee has just concluded its meeting, which, including its consideration of 12 bills, has been submitted in accordance with the established procedure. As a result of the Committee’s consideration, according to article 48, paragraph 2, of the State Budget Act 2009, taxes on the owners of transport equipment are fully counted in the relevant parts of the local budgets. Moreover, for the final part of Europe’s 2012 football championship, the final part of the 2012 football championship is included in the city’s budget of 100 percent. The total amount of such revenue is estimated at 2 billion 316.5 million dollars. On the basis of the proposed increase that you and I have accepted in the Supreme Council, 1 billion 500 million dollars have been added. All the bills before the committee, without exception, lead to a reduction in this amount. However, we realized that there must be a changed philosophy of applying higher rates to the transportation community in order not to touch the unsecured levels of the population, the so - called social transport. So we need to make changes to the law that we passed and made mistakes. You can see that the first bill to be considered was bill 3030-1 by the National MPs Simonek and Martinyuk. The committee decided by a majority to support the bill on the basis and asked the Supreme Council to agree on a simplified procedure for preparing it for second reading. We also ask that you set up a working group of all the drafters who are now represented, as well as members of the Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u30	Complete, please, Sergey Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u31	Thank you. Tax policy and government representatives. If that's the case, tomorrow at 14. 30. This working group will meet with us in the second reading committee. It is vital for us to find sources of local budgets, since road budgeting has already been completed. And that's why we can't leave budgets without funding for a billion and a half billion and a half. However, on behalf of the committee, I warn that it is not possible to accept the bill as a whole today, because in the form in which it is prepared by the authors, and I mean the Simonka project, Martinyuka, it foresees an increase of about three times the excise on light cars of small volumes and a decrease of about three times the transport congregation on a light medium - and high - class car. So we don't think that's fair. We should not touch as much as at least two and a half liters of today’s transportation congregation. That's why, by the way, the Katerinczuk bill is fully in line with these requirements, but once again we need to find sources of funding for local budgets. That's why we're proposing to take 3030-1 and, together with the legislators, the government to work on it by next sessional week. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u32	Thank you. Have a seat, please. I understand that we have a desire and a question to ask, and a final word to the reporters, but since we are working in this case under a reduced procedure, and we have agreed that we will only have a discussion, so I think we can make preferences and your colleagues by faction during the recording that is going to take place so that you can definitely get the word. Please sign up for the discussion. Dear colleagues! I would ask that we take into account the details that are currently being discussed, not in the 14 projects that have been implemented, but in the five, because other entities have not been removed from the legislative initiative, or two projects have not been presented, have not been reported because of the lack of legal entities. So now we're discussing 3030-1, 3030-5, 3030-8, 3030-9 and 3030-13. Please, let's start the discussion. Zabuc Roman Omelyanovich, from the faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Seminoga, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u33	The honourable chairman, the honourable colleagues, what 13 bills have been tabled to deal with on this subject today, says that what really matters is what the problem is. We've been meeting with voters in various regions of our country, and we've come to realize that let's say the truth is that the Supreme Council has somehow passed a very bad law. Today, we need to correct and correct this problem. 13 bills are presented, convinced that each of these bills is aimed at only one way to improve the situation in order to relieve social tension. At the same time, we should think that these bills are very sensitive to the filling of local budgets. So the main thing in this situation is to compromise. It seems to me that it doesn't matter what law will be adopted in the first reading today, the main thing for us to be able to form a balanced law for the second reading, which will allow us to today and to maintain social justice, and to fill the local budgets, because it also didn't matter. So I would like to vote for everyone and everyone for any law that has been passed today, for the second reading to refine it and eventually remove the social tension from that situation. The “Julia Tymoshenko Block” will support all the bills that will be tabled, including usually for the government. Thank you for your attention. And please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u34	From the faction “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”, the national deputy of Liapina.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u35	Xenia Lapina, group “For Ukraine”. Our group has carefully considered all the proposed bills and I would like to point out that the first and most important step of the Supreme Council is to reverse the mistakenly accepted raised rates of the congregation. We support Bill 3039, introduced by People's Deputy Katerenczuk, who simply cancels all the raised stakes directly. We also consider that by complementing rather than being an alternative, we can consider Bill 3013, which proposes another scheme for 2010 that does not contain appropriate signs of social injustice. But this is a separate direction: finding another tax scheme. I would also like to point out that we do not support the government bill, because it is not compromised, it contains further increases in these congregations and does not compromise at all. And it's in no way consistent with the initiators of the shares that we all react to here in the hall. And I believe that any bill adopted today, we believe that the best is to be 3039, to be worked out by the leaders of the public associations of motorists, who were actually initiators, who drew the attention of the Supreme Council to such fundamental mistakes that were made by the Supreme Council under the pressure of the Cabinet of Ministers. And, dear colleagues, filling local budgets at the expense of the poor, as a minimum, immoral. So we don't have to call for local budgets right now, but we need to set up social order and justice, and then we need to look for serious sources of revenue for local budgets based on tax reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u36	National deputy of Kzarykov. Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich, of the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u37	Dear colleagues! Dear voters! First of all, it's very easy for the representatives of our faction to go to this rostrum right now, because, like some of our other colleagues, we didn't vote in favour of this bill. That's the first one. The other one. I would like to point out once again that not only the Mikolia Dimitriwich Katerinczuka Bill is talking about canceling these “fights” but, in other words, it is difficult to find. But the bill, which was first considered and reported by a colleague of Simonenko, is about to bring the transport assembly back to the level that was before the bill was adopted. Clearly, and it's very good that I see that the session hall can finally make a consolidated decision, the point of which is that everyone understands and especially those who actively advocated the adoption of this law, that it was a mistake. Indeed, if the “Volga” instead of the 240 bracelets that have been paid to date have to be paid 1,800 dollars, many Volgs no longer have to pay that amount. And you might recall when one of the owners of this vehicle on television screens all over the country sent us away and told us that I was better at burning this car than paying for these disproportionate congregations. So I propose and I ask you to support Bill No. 3030-1, which returns everything at the time, at the time that there existed, the adoption of these congregations until the adoption of a new transport convention. What is more, I propose, fellow believers, to be accepted not only in the first reading but in general. Because where do we get to? If we are now adopting in the first reading, the second reading, while we are preparing and preparing such a bill, I will not support the session room, the bill will be in force, the law that we have adopted with you, and more precisely the part of the session hall. And so we're going to "let go of the couple," and we're going to spread our hands and tell the people that we supported them, and the law, as it worked, continues to work. The only way this law doesn't work today is by adopting the first and second readings, by repealing the previous law, and of course by developing everyone who wants to, including the Cabinet of Ministers, to develop a new draft law and it will pass the session hall. For acceptance only in the first reading will lead to what I said we will knowingly deceive our citizens and our fellow countrymen. So I suggest that we adopt the law as a whole and make out who wants to be the author of the initiative, whether it's 13 or 15 or 20, let them make the laws they think are necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u38	Samofal Gennady Grigorovich from the “Party of the Regions” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u39	Dear colleagues! As it turned out, for about a year and a half, I observed closely the work of the Supreme Council and my colleagues, the work of the Government, the work of the Presidential Administration. [[I'm already the fourth caller.]] And where did I come from? I've come to what many have come to, which all depends on professionalism. Is that what we're discussing and considering with you today? Today, 13 draft laws. Everybody's running to the races to see how good they are. What happened? Let's find out. The Government is proposing a draft law, not knowing how the people live, which is behind it. Well, there's someone there, Pinzenic's already been working there, so he couldn't tell that people can't do that. But you, if you're sedated and experienced, can't do that. What is this bill? In the village, a villager can only buy an old bagel and brandy, which he as a master will take over and provide for his family. He's not allowed to do this. Why? Because the Government is completely alienated from the people, it does not know exactly what needs to be done. Today all draft laws are, in principle, correct and correct. But I think it would be better if Julia Vladimirovna or anyone from the government apologized to the drivers. And there was this simple elemental thing. I was just on Thursday, when there was a driver's action, walking from Glory Square here, just taking an oath, walking my way, because people were all over it, and you'd hear what they were saying. If they had decided to consider the issue, I assure you, the police wouldn't have helped, and the internal forces wouldn't have let us in here, you know. This is due to non-professionalism. I'd like to say more about that in terms of professionalism. Look what's happening now. The elemental problem is that you wanted to make an army professional this year. Is she? Net. And we had to just get the military, Genstab, the Ministry of Defence, economists, count and see, you can't, you can't, let's not, don't do that. You'll take the savings of the food you've made. It was not clear that 132 billion were not in nature. Sally, sit back and look around and ask people what they're going to do if we give. And now we see that inflation has already gone. It's all clear. Now look at the problem: insulin, what's going on. I invite Julia Vladimirovne and the Cabinet of Ministers to go with people with diabetes just to stand by, they'll go to the pharmacy, what will they get? According to the recipes they're giving them, they're not going to give them anything, because the prices aren't. Now they've decided to give before, and then we'll pay at the end of the month. The pharmacies don't give, nobody believes now. And people are dying today. I am grateful for the “5 channel” which has shown excellent coverage of what is happening to insulin today. So, distinguished colleagues, let's still be professionals, consult with people. There is the wisdom of the people: cut off seven times, measure, and cut off once. Let's measure, consult with people.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u40	National Deputy Kirilenko Vejacheslav Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u41	Vjacheslav Kirilenko, “For Ukraine” MP. Dear colleagues, above all, I would like to see that in the future we have no so-called mistakes, as we are now correcting in the transport congregation. In order for them not to exist, the “For Ukraine” MPs have amended the legislation on the reduced procedure, which is that the issue of tax, economic, fiscal and so on cannot be considered by a reduced procedure. And if that decision had worked, it wouldn't have gone up from 2 to 7 times the transport community, there wouldn't have been these protests under the Supreme Council's windows, there wouldn't have been a law on the introduction of a market tax, which increases the burden on 3 million people who stand and provide employment in markets from 70 to 200 times. And there wouldn't be a lot of other things going on, sorry, stupid things that then have to be corrected at the expense of the state budget for the Supreme Council. Because we're holding a meeting right now. And this meeting costs money. So we can't make any more of these mistakes. That's a technical reason. There's still a worldwide reason that, in our group's opinion, we'll never agree that the government is trying to fill a small business budget, leaving in peace the big corporate business represented in the two largest factions of Parliament, the attack went on a small enterprise. And from here the increase in market taxes, from here the increased transport community, from here the desire to pay an additional contribution to the Pension Fund and other economic tortures that have now fallen on the heads of small businesses. We will not allow these people to solve budgetary problems. That's why we're going to vote in favour of the bill -- and by the way, a few -- and one goes through -- which cancels the increased transport assembly, and returns the situation to the one that was before the wrong decision of Parliament, but which was inspired by the government bill. And I'm also paying attention to all of us, because it's probably important to everyone, regardless of what party or region they represent. Our group introduced draft Law 3668 — the introduction of a moratorium on small business checks by the end of this crisis in 2009. I'm convinced that in the light of the latest events, if we leave these people alone, if we let them do their own work and work people, this will be a positive decision in the whole of society, because it's about millions of ordinary Ukrainians, who are not on the market anymore, who are not doing their job anymore, who are doing their job. This is our position. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u42	Belarus Oleg Grigorovich, please. National deputy of the school.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u43	Dear nationals, fellow national MPs, distinguished radio and television audiences! Of course, you can throw a lot of stones at each other, but remember that we all live in. The house. Responsibility is common to the bill voted on. Because, of course, you can say that the government was inspired by either the President or anyone, but we voted. And it is not the wise one who is wise or who does not make mistakes, but the one who has the honor and the conscience to correct his own error. So I think that under the circumstances, criticism has to be mutual. We need to correct mistakes, but we need not forget that when we speak of the common good of society, it is the welfare of society that comes from one great sea called the budget. The budget needs to be filled, for if the rivers do not fall, do not fill, in principle there will be nothing to draw. So, in principle, of course, I agree with all the comments that the government and we, the national MPs, have meant by voting for this law, that the rich, the one who has the opportunity to buy a car for 100,000 euros, can pay enough tax for it. Sadly, though, those who have paid a small fee for a sufficiently multiliterary car; for older cars; for those cars that are in a very low price range, they have also come under the general principle. Although it is also worth not forgetting that the average capital, the middle - size business representatives who bought it at the time when it was possible to do so at small cost of credit, expensive cars, also fell under the general rule. So the question is not in breaking the rule, I'm opposed to going back to the previous one, when, in principle, there was almost none, it was symbolic taxes on large - scale engines. We just have to protect those who drive or allow themselves to move on low - cost cars and allow those who earn a lot to pay for their car honestly with an understanding of where it is going, for expensive cars to pay their taxes. So I think that the government bill, supported by us in the first reading that comes to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, where we have succeeded in understanding what happened before, working it out, passing a quintension of all the bills that were proposed by the people's deputies, and we will propose to both the Supreme Council and society that law on the basis of a government law that will satisfy everyone and fill the budget, including. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u44	Vaszczuk Katerina Timofievna
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u45	Dear colleagues, distinguished radio listeners. People's deputies of the Lithuanian Block are fully supportive of the bills that today bring this complex conflict to the status quo. So we're going back, to the existing standards that have been set by society, by car owners, and yet it's a very painful subject, and we can't approach it by cutting it off. So speaking to you, honourable national MPs, I want to say that to a large extent, how we organize our work with you depends on a reduced procedure for dealing with sensitive laws such as taxation or full discussion. Then there will be fewer mistakes. The full discussion will be possible when we put moratoriums in this hall to block the rostrums, not to assemble or hold sessions, then we will have more time to fine-tune the bills. The Simonnka Martinyuk bill and others discussed in this room today are returning us to cancel the new tax. We'll back him up. There is a second ideology set out in the law that says that in the coming year it is desirable to introduce a bill where there will be a special assembly, an excise assembly, and it will be paid for gasoline. So when a person uses a car, whoever it is, he will pay the congregation, and he will go to repair the roads to fill the so - called road congregation. It's a normal question. But in doing so, the author of the bill has to work out and take into account the following situation that today have the benefits of war veterans, do not pay this congregation on a car tax for rural cars, do not have it in the country, do not have farming. And when we bring in the excise, they'll all pay. So today, by adopting a law that repeals the tax, we have to think carefully about the second reading and prepare for the second reading a serious law that will govern all of us and, above all, our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u46	People's MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u47	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! I am impressed by the position raised by Adam Ivanovich regarding the need for the speedy adoption of the law. It might be 10, it might be 15, but the principles of justice are above all. And so the position of Viacheslav Koval impresses me that this is, I think, the only optimal formula that fits and is just being followed by Catherine Timofievna. 'Cause look at this. The person who comes out once a month from a remote village to get to the area on his canned-up, broken-up car to bring his housekeeper and his goods to market, he has to pay as much as the others. Why? By what principle? Unless there is what the Viacheslav project and what Catherine Timofievna said, which is just an excise collection for gasoline, it is only possible, because all those exhausts, all that is in trouble for large cities, all the metropolises of those powerful, superpowerful cars owned by rich people. I'm not against the rich and not against the cars that are in our cities, but why should some subsidize others? So the only and only fair approach when we take this proposal as a criterion. But it cannot be tolerated and considered indefinitely in the years to come, and the need for adoption is literally tomorrow. We don't want the people standing under the walls of Kabmin to come out tomorrow. And by the way, you can't turn everything to Kabmin. It was you and I who made this mistake! We didn't learn that! No one knows the mode of our work, whether we're working with a reduced program or not. But yesterday, following a story that passed through, perhaps by your attention: when our experts designed airplanes, small ones, tomorrow will be drawn to the crime scene for having a beautiful mind, beautiful hands, just because they did and offered to fly. Why should this be followed? Why do we not support national initiatives? Why do we think about this type of population that is debilitated, that really keeps those cars from World War II? Think of them as a huge array. I am not talking about those who might have gone to Kabmin because they were paid for the campaign. And those who don't even have the right to vote. And it is our duty to care for those who are in need. And that is why I support the project that Viacheslav Kowal and Catherine Timothy have made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u48	Samylica Katerina Seminovna instead of Demyanchuk Victoria Alexandrovna
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u49	Dear colleagues, our radio listeners! Of course, today the Supreme Council of Ukraine is destined to correct the error of those who voted in favour of the bill. And you don't have to say that such a slight mistake was, well, just like that, the hand stretched out and pressed the button -- that's all. Don't believe it, people are good. Everyone knew that this vote carried the entire burden exclusively on you, on those who ride the old oxen and tie the last potato, on the last weed to sell and feed their family or on a student's ticket to earn money. Everyone knew exactly what they were doing. They translated full responsibility into you. Then, of course, when the people came to Kiev, they began running with an invitation to us. I asked one of my colleagues: “Excuse me, if you don’t mind, we didn’t vote, the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, for this, and “Regions” for this bill. You turn to your conscience and to your memory and remember, please, who really voted in favour of this bill. Look, people with no jobs thrown out of factories, factories, no wages. Until recently, all the cattle were cut, and meat was imported from Poland. Now and now, by the law that is in force today, we force both the last and the car to be put on scrap metal because it is not convenient to keep it in the yard. So I don't agree with anyone who wants to adopt the bill, and I don't know what time it is. We must today adopt the bill presented to us by Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko 3031 and in the first reading, and finally, remove this acute problem. And I'd like my colleagues to support this, this particular proposal. And I want to say that. What's called a mistake is the irresponsibility of the politicians that led to this. I can imagine a hawker reacting so much to the detail that he's exhausting today. I imagine a teacher who would fall asleep in class and not teach children. I imagine other professions, and that's why we don't need to shed tears today, shame on you all, who today are the state and the people who make bees with their heads and pick up their pockets.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u50	National MP Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u51	Yulia Timoshenko's "block" raised the first question of correcting, unfortunately, the big mistake that happened here in Parliament. Parliament often makes mistakes. Regrettably, citizens of Ukraine suffer as a result of their mistakes. As a political force responsible to people, we worked for two weeks in the districts, and people were asking these questions. And that's why the reaction to citizens' petitions are bills that have been tabled by the government and deputies from the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. We think that we need to work out the situation so that the poorest, those with the Volgs there are paying 2-3 thousand dollars, and the rich, who are sitting under the Supreme Council and rallying at the Mercedes, are proposing to reduce the transport congregation. Just one of the bills that are most discussed here is three times, according to Sergey Teryohin, bill 3030-1 — three times to reduce the traffic assembly for motor vehicles, and three times to raise the transport assembly for motor vehicles. Of course, we cannot vote for that. We have to predict this in general to the Ministry of Finance, and to the government, predict the gathering of an environmental congregation, and put it at the cost of gasoline. When a person rides, charges, pays for the congregation, and when a car stands there for a year and on the Passover, people go to the city twice or three times a year, that’s how much they pay. Some travel, break roads, and taxi drivers, for example, pay in the same way as those who retire once or twice a year. So we need to review the philosophy of these bills, so that the laws work in the interests of the least protected citizens of Ukraine, not just for the sake of the rich. We realize that in the Supreme Council, especially in this part of the room, some rich people are represented, and they only care about wealth, they lack all the billions they have, and they want to tear the last skin off those miserable peasants. "Julia Timoshenko's Block" for protecting the least vulnerable population! And we will support a bill that will allow the peasants of little protection, those who have “Volga” for 20 years, “Volga” so that they do not pay for these dragon transport congregations. And it will bring responsibility to those who have established these taxes who abuse people.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u52	The discussion is over. Dear colleagues, I think this will be a good lesson for us for the Supreme Council to first not make such mistakes, and secondly, if it allows, correct them without warning, in a way that has led to immediate consideration of as many as 14 alternatives. We are now going to vote on the five alternative projects that we have left. I'm asking for your attention. I am betting on the adoption vote on the basis of draft Act No.3030-1 on taxes from owners of vehicles and other self-propelled vehicles and machinery. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:07:29]] For 378 Decision taken. Other alternative bills are no longer in the vote. In general, you can't put a vote on the vote, because you can see that people's deputies, who are led by the committee head, are waving their hands and saying no in general. The regulation prohibits voting in general for the denial of Ukrainian national MPs. I'm voting on the proposal to double the deadline for preparing for the second reading of this bill. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:08:17]] For 409 Decision taken. Thus, I am addressing Sergei Anatoliyovich Teryochin at the beginning of the next plenary week, we must consider this draft law in a second reading. Dear colleagues, now in line with the decision of the Supreme Council, voted at the opening of the evening plenary, the draft Law on Priorities to Preventing the Impact of the World Financial Crisis on the Bread Care Industry is under consideration. Number 3560. Reported: National Deputy of Ukraine, Trinduk Yuri Grigorovitch, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u53	Dear colleagues! If we say that in our country, which is rightfully considered agricultural, the bread industry exists, it means that we're lying to ourselves, it's practically gone. Without the cost of borrowing the raw material, the loans of the farmers are at the verge of stopping. And if we don't help the bread industry with you, tens of thousands of people will be out of work, and there will be a significant break with bread in Ukraine, and that will hit the citizens who have already suffered from the crisis even more. You know that the breadth industry is the most regulated by the authorities, the profitability of production is no more than five percent, and this is an artificial unfair restriction on the profitability of the government and it has been in operation for more than five years. In this regard, for the purpose of replenishing the circulation costs, in fact, most industries were forced to take credit in banks for the purchase of raw materials, grains, and retrofitting. A large number of loans were made in foreign currency because there was a significant interest rate. The impairment of the bracelet has virtually made it impossible to service and repay these loans and has led to the removal from the circulation of negotiable funds. This law regulates the transfer of foreign - currency enterprises to a purse and prescribes this mechanism. What I'm saying is that it's not going to have any effect on the stability of the bracelet, because everything in the field is going to have about $150 million in credit, and the loss is going to be about $40 million in total. The entire field will be saved, and the people of Ukraine will be provided with bread.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u54	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u55	You may say that there are other areas in which help is needed. But once again I want to say that the breadmaking industry is the most regulated and the most social, the bread is the head of everyone. Therefore, my fellow Members, I ask you to adopt this law in general and help the farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u56	A report from the committee, Stanislaw Mikhailovich Arzvetin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u57	Ladies and gentlemen, our committee has reviewed this bill several times and has decided on both occasions to reject this bill. This same position is shared by the scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Our committee believes that the approach to granting tax preferences exclusively to one sector, even as important as breadwinners, can be the result of the massive emergence of bills that provide the same benefits to other sectors. This proposal can cause even more pressure on commercial banks in the banking sector, which is still in a difficult state. In general, we estimate that if we make similar proposals to other sectors, compensation should amount to about 120 billion dollars, which is also the source of these compensations. The bill is contrary to the Civil Code of Ukraine, this is article 1054. According to the law, it is known that the National Bank has nothing to do with lending one or the other and therefore cannot make additional requirements in contracts with a commercial bank. The drafters of the bill also have no calculation of what conditions and how much refinancing is needed. The compensation mechanism has already been made available to the National Bank by exchange rate differences on the part of the Cabinet of Ministers, and neither has it been prescribed, nor the principal sources not defined, must be budget changes. The bill provides for the granting of benefits not only to bread shops but also to profiled persons who are, as many as they are, no accounting. Above all, this bill can stimulate and create unequal conditions in the field itself. Because those who could cancel loans will now have to make these loans problematic because they can buy the currency at a cheap rate. So let's get out of this.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u58	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u59	It's a bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u60	Let's write two "for" – two "against". Lyszko Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u61	Trinduku, please have a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u62	Yuri Grigorovich Trinduk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u63	I want to answer, I want to say this. I've already told you that the losses will be completely insignificant. We're going to save the entire breadmaking industry. Moreover, the breadmaking industry is indeed the most social and most regulated industry to be compared with other industries. This law must be upheld because the bread will rise up and there will be no bread.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u64	Vaszczuk Katerina Timofievna
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u65	Dear colleagues! A committee speaker said that it is true to give preference to one sector. But bread is bread. And for good reason, the people say that the bread is the head of everyone. Today there may be something missing, all of this can be perceived by different people, but it's understandable. But when we put the bread industry completely on our knees, it's not just going to hit the bakers, it's going to hit the farmers that grow the bread, because the market is going to shrink, and, most importantly, our citizens. Today, there is still a threat of a serious increase in the production of bread, and they are already precious, and we have many survivors. And we have to take a step to meet this area today, as it is very socially oriented, socially important in Ukraine. And then in the government's work programme, we need to build not only those cooperatives that will deliver products directly from the village to make it cheap in markets, but also to create markets that are socially oriented, where people who don't have enough resources today can buy all the food at affordable prices. This is true even in very rich countries of the world. Therefore, the Lithuanian Block supports the decision, will vote in favour of it and we invite all the national MPs to take very responsibility for the decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u66	Herman Hanna Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u67	I ask you to give the floor to the deputy Jaroslav Sukh.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u68	Jaroslav Suhi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u69	Dear colleagues! Whatever beautiful words we say about bread to everyone's head, Bill 3560 raises great doubts about economic relevance and legal engineering. Dear colleagues! It's not the fight against the crisis. It's not the crisis. It's not the crisis. Look at this, and in the same situation, the dairy industry, the animal industry, has been converted. Please tell us, for the very reason that the farms are stopped, precisely for the reason given and in the explanatory note, the strict government regulation of the profitability of production and prices has been halted by the Zaporez oil company and all processing companies. How much will the unworkable oil truck pay? Zero! How much of this zero is going to go into the Pension Fund? Same zero! So if we really want to deal with this problem, this bill only needs to be adopted in the first reading. Because there is another extremely dangerous situation. In order for us to at times, with our efforts to displease the transporters, the breadwinners do not want us to lead to the fact that no one will be able to return the new savings. What is a commercial bank? He's raised someone's money, he can't deposit it now. He cannot pay off the same costs of the breadwinner industry, which are also frozen in commercial banks. It's not an approach. It's not normal, it's not economic, it's not a market-based approach to solving the crisis in a very sensitive area like the bread industry. This bill can only be adopted in the first reading. Then we must consider all the real - life aid mechanisms, including the financial assistance of the breadwinner industry, so that we do not lose sight of the social situation in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u70	Samolikka Katerina Seminovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u71	Thank you. Dear colleagues, dear voters, note the question that we are considering today. We really need to support, share, and share, except for you, our relatives. One day you were forgotten that you had nothing to buy bread and to buy bread. And so the bakers we're going to support with you, let's add the banks to this, and you're going to survive. And if you don't survive, what's going on in this room is not going to be considered. I want to ask the drafters a question. Do you know, Your Honor, how much bread is rotting in the chambers right now, because the government didn't buy it, bought it? Do you know or not? Please explain what assessment you will give because the day before the harvest, knowing that the harvest would really be good in Ukraine, raised the price of bread? Isn't that special? Where are the promised purchase prices for grain? Why were they not implemented again? So the bill you're proposing today is, in fact, some kind of machination, it's another machination. Why didn't you support the moratorium that the Company offered to raise the prices of the goods? Why didn't we do it? Where are the 40 billion given by the International Monetary Fund? And now you're in contact with commercial banks, giving guarantees. And again, a new outpouring of machination, for which the same simple peasant and all the citizens of Ukraine will be praised. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u72	Please finish Katerina Seed.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u73	Dear colleagues! It's camouflage, it's not a bill. He will not save the people of Ukraine, he will save a small patch. So let's think about it before the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u74	The discussion is over. I am voting on the basis of the draft Law on the Priorities to Preventing the Impact of the World Financial Crisis on the Humanitarian Sector. Registration number 3560. I'd like to make up my mind. [[17:22:31]] For 237 Decision taken. By factions, please show me. Region Party 15, Timoshenko Yulia Block - 148, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" - 55, Communists - 0, "Block of Lithuania" - 19. There is a request from the Ukrainian National Deputies to prepare the profile committee for the next plenary week for the second reading of the draft law. Please vote in favour of shortening the procedure for preparing the second reading. [[17:23:17]] For 214 The decision is not taken. I'd like the profile committee to prepare. When you're ready for the Conciliation Board for the session schedule. The draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the List of Property Rights that Are Not Privatized, No. 2657, is being published for consideration. Reportedly, the first deputy minister of economy, Maksut Anatoly Arkadyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u75	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies! Today, you are presented with the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Listing Property Rights Objects That Are Not Privatized. The purpose of this law is to strengthen State control over the conservation and efficient use of property of enterprises that are state-owned and are not privatized under article five of the Law on Privatization of State Property. To this end, it is proposed to merge Appendices one and two of the Ukrainian Act on Listing Property Rights that Are Not Privatized, and to establish the only legal regime of enterprises that are of national importance. It should be noted that the existence of Appendix Two today allows for the actual disposal of property of state-owned enterprises that are not subject to privatization, from the scope of the prohibition on privatization by deciding on their corporate or reorganization, which leads to a change in their organizational and legal form and later to alienation. If a bill is adopted to list property rights that are not subject to privatization, there will be 1,402 items left. In addition, the names of listed enterprises, their identification codes, addresses, and administrations are regulated according to information provided by the administration and the Administration. Thus, as a result of the adoption of the law, we will have the only list of property rights that are not subject to privatization, which will allow for the preservation and elimination of state-owned enterprises.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u76	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u77	The request to the National Deputies to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u78	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Correspondence from the committee, Alexander Mikolaiovich Bondar
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u79	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies, I would like to draw the attention of the deputies. A very important bill. The Economic Policy Committee has decided to support the bill as a basis. I'll explain to you why. First. No object that is allowed to privatize compared to what it is today is the government does not bring. On the contrary, the government makes two lists, one of which allowed corporateism, but prohibited privatization by one which prohibits the privatization of objects included in those lists. So there's no movement in the privatization plan here. Another reason. It is only after the adoption of this bill that MPs have the right to include new objects in the second reading regime. Thus, each member is able to make changes to the list of objects prohibited from privatization in the second reading mode. I would like to remind you of the law in force on privatization, which is the exclusive right of the Cabinet of Ministers to make a list of objects prohibited from privatization. So once again, I emphasize that it is simply those objects that have undergone the restructuring that have changed their legal status and are now on the banned list. On the other hand, those who have become united are also included in the list of those who are not allowed to privatize. I could now give a statement on each subject, but unfortunately there is no time for that. And I'm asking you to support the bill in the first reading, and the committee is working on all the additions to the banned list that will come in the second reading mode of the National Deputies. I'm calling the opposition MPs again, please, there are no exceptions to the restraining order. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u80	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Let's sign up for a discussion. Vaszczuk Katerina Timofievna
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u81	Dear colleagues, the honourable drafters of the bill! There is such an enterprise called Volinthorf on Volin. It is included today, except, more faithfully, in the list of enterprises that are not subject to privatization. So it's going to be privatized. We've studied the situation with the use of thorphobriquettes in the area. What is Volin? The cops are burning pears. Even budget institutions have almost 30 percent topped with thorphobriquet. Today, 600 boilers are installed in various social establishments that are burned with peat. A successful enterprise pays for the budget, provides jobs. And that's a very important business for you. It's constantly lobbied, the desire for this profit that pays for the budget, the enterprise to privatize. Various insinuations are made. That's the final choice today. The day before, the leader of the largest thorfabricette Manevic factory, Jaschuk, was arrested endlessly. And today we have a situation that's already in the process of sending the Volin torpedoes to privatize. The whole community of Volini, the leadership of all levels of Volina, oppose this. I appeal to you, honourable national deputies, not to support the privatization of this enterprise. If it is excluded from privatization, the faction will not vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u82	Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u83	Dear colleagues, I would like to continue speaking to Catherine Timothy's landlady, because I have exactly that kind of proposal and, unfortunately, this situation is not just after Wolinthorf, such a situation, you look at the comparative table, it refers to all the torophoric enterprises. And actually on the example of Wolinthorf, Catherine Timofievna told us what it is about any economy in any area. Now, one more moment. Alexandre Mikolaiovich, you're telling us a little lie because here in the Law of Ukraine you are “appealing to those who have lost their validity” – Appendix No. 2 to the Law. And in Appendix No.2 of the law, there were 144 enterprises in Appendix No.2 that were not privatized but were entitled to corporateism. Now you're taking this plugin number two: 144 strategic enterprises, including pears, including different kinds of power plants -- you're removing them from an appendix that's not privatized, and you're allowing them to privatize. So it's not as easy and not as easy as you want to say. Yes, some of these 144 objects, some of them go into the "non-privatisation" plugin, but those of 144 might come in four or five. You put more than a hundred companies of strategic importance on privatization. I've already said that all the peats: this is Sumi-torf, Divide-torf, Chernigu-torf, Kiev-torf -- all of these give in, all of these companies are privatized and all of them. [[Hopalong]] That's why I hope, honourable colleagues, that we have enough wisdom not to adopt this bill, because it will be a huge disaster for all of our constituents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u84	Herman Hanna Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u85	National MP Alexia Plotnikov please pass on the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u86	The important chairman, the distinguished national deputies, is involved in privatization, property that is not subject to privatization, and shareholders’ associations. So here's the VAT "Dniprodistinsképélektrocentral", VAT "Stradnenergo" etc. However, VAT is not an object of state ownership. Such objects are shares that belong to the State in the statutory fund of these societies. So from this point of view, we need to make adjustments in terms of the validity of this bill. Next. According to Part Two of Article 5 of the Law on the Privatisation of State Property, heat power plants are included in objects that are not privatised because they have a national significance, regardless of whether they have legal status. In this regard, we believe that this bill should remove Ohtyr’s thermal networks, the Cerkasian TEC, and everything else, which is not privatized, but it is still in this object. So the general conclusion is that it's a proposal to go back to drafting this bill, taking into account that it has very large flaws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u87	Thank you. Karpuk Vladimir Igorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u88	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense", group "For Ukraine". Respectful voters, respected colleagues, respected national MPs, of course, form a single list of property rights that are not subject to privatization is vital to the prevention of abuses that exist in this area. At the same time, I would like to confirm the opinion of my fellow countrymen, the volunteer deputies Catherine Vaschuk, and Adam Martinyuk that we should be very careful about listing these objects. First of all, we can't consider a reduced procedure for such important enterprises. Yes, we prepare for the second reading in the second reading mode, but all of these enterprises will be included from the point of view of the committee members. What I'm saying is that all of the torpedo companies, if we're talking about the energy security of our country right now, the proposal to exclude from the list of objects that don't belong, that have lost state importance and are responding, that don't match part two of article 5, is still a letter that was in 2006. Two years later, the situation changed. 27 percent of Volina’s budget institutions are on local fuel, and more than 600 boilers have been purchased in recent years. There's a lot of economics in the area, and that's for other thorphobic, torph-producing enterprises. So I think the things that other MPs said about energy-related businesses. So, really, this law needs to be set aside for further work.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u89	Thank you, the discussion is over. First of all, I would like to remind you that the issue of a reduced procedure is the vote of the national deputies in the session room. I ask that we not complain about this because we need to be careful about the proposals made by fellow members of the national parliaments and to determine when the procedure is well shortened and when it is worth considering the full procedure, as provided for in the Rules. Now, please, a replica of Alexander Mikolaiovich Bondar, named after him. One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u90	Dear Adam Ivanovich, I did not lie, I was not able to tell in two minutes to the full that 47 objects were merged into one legal person and included in the banned list, 72 objects were reorganized and included under other names in the banned list. There just wasn't time. I said that there is no object for privatization. And, Catherine Timofievna, if there is a objection to your object, you should put it in a comparative table as forbidden in the second reading. We'll support you on the committee. Otherwise you won't do anything. We have to take it as a basis, and then your proposal will be supported by a hall. There's no other way. Well, you can't do that right now, just on the second reading. Vote first and we will be happy to meet you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u91	Honorary colleagues, the reporter Anatoly Arkadyovich Maksuta, claim that there are positions in the project that can take into account what was proposed by the national deputy Vascuk and the national deputy Martinyuk. I'm asking your permission to clarify, for information, to allow for the clarification of Anatoly Arkadyovich Maximus. Is there a denial? None. Please, Anatoly Arkadyovich. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u92	This list was formed on the basis of the suggestions of those authorities that run businesses. If people's deputies today have a proposal, for example, for Wolinthorf, I confirm that we will agree to transfer it to the first appendix during the second reading, but transferring it to the first appendix gives a guarantee that it will not be corporateized or modified, it will not be output. So putting the first in the appendix is even better than he was in the second appendix where he could go beyond the existing procedures. So I'm going to go to the MPs, and yet, if we're talking about improving the preservation of state property, the request to accept in the first reading, and in the second reading, we're going to take into account the observations that there are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u93	Thank you. I am voting on the adoption on the basis of the draft Act “On Amendments to the Law of Ukraine on Listing Property Rights that Are Not Privatized”, Registration No 2657. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:40:02]] For 205 The decision is not taken, the bill is rejected. Show the factions, please. Region Party - 0, Timoshenko Yulia Block - 150, Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense - 47, Communists - 0, Litvina Block - 8. There's an offer from the profile committee. There's a proposal from the profile committee to re-read. Alexander Mikolaiovich, please take your seats. I'm voting on the committee's proposal for re-reading, please identify yourself. [[17:40:57]] For 218. The decision is not taken. The bill is rejected and will not be considered. The draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Recovery or Recognition of the Debtor's Pay-per-view or Bankruptcy is being announced for consideration. [[on the timeliness of the satisfaction of debt claims from wages]] Registration number 1105. Reported by the Ukrainian national deputy Sanchenko Andri Vilenović.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u94	Dear colleagues! The current law on the reinstatement of the debtor's capacity to pay or recognition by bankruptcy provides that in the bankruptcy proceedings, the enterprise's arrears to the employees of the enterprises that have arisen in the last three months are primarily repaid. The bulk of the payroll is paid out in the second place. However, this part of the payroll debt is met after the costs associated with the bankruptcy procedure, after the public duty costs, after the costs of the arbitration officer and after the audit costs of the creditors. Practices have shown that bankruptcy enterprises tend to have a significant salary debt to their employees, which has accumulated over a number of years. Second, the satisfaction of wage requirements often prevents employees from being counted because of the lack of means of liquidation. This situation indirectly violates article 43 of article 43 of the Ukrainian Constitution. With a view to social protection for employed workers, it is proposed that wages be transferred from the second order to the full. There is a positive opinion by the Scientific and Expert Office, there is a positive decision by the Committee, there have been comments by our colleagues from the Committee on Economic Policy concerning the secondary aspects of the bill and we have come to the conclusion that they can be taken into account in the preparation of the draft draft for second reading. This law can be described as different, for several hundred thousand Ukrainian families, whose representatives are employees of an enterprise in bankruptcy, it can be called an anti-crisis. I would simply call it human, and I would suggest that everyone be friendly about supporting this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u95	Have a seat, please. Bondar Alexander Mikolaiovich's report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u96	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! Dear National Deputies! The Economic Policy Committee has considered a bill that has been passed since the last call and proposes to support it and accept it as a basis. The bill was designed to provide social protection for employed workers in the bankruptcy process by changing the pace of meeting creditors’ demands. In particular, the transfer of payment requirements from the second line to the first. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine supports the draft for adoption in the first reading, although some comments have been made to it. In particular, the Economic Policy Committee has decided on a second reading to make such an amendment, and the proposed draft is about the requirements that have arisen for the employees of the bankruptcy company. This may deprive the right to meet the relevant requirements of persons who have been released from the business before the creditor’s claim is met after the sale of his property is eliminated. We decided to take this amendment into account in our second reading. In this regard, we invite MPs to adopt the bill as a basis for its further development in the second reading regime. I'm calling on the National MPs: send your comments to the bill and we'll look at them. And this bill is really urgent right now, because a lot of businesses are going through a lot of bad times right now. And in order for the workers not to suffer, their demands to be taken into account, to satisfy the legal requirements of the prescribed benefits and wages and debts to be paid. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u97	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Let's sign up for a discussion. Herman Hanna Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u98	A party of regions will support this bill, because it is very important for us that, in the course of business bankruptcy, the debt of wages for all employees and not for three months should first be paid off, and then all other payments should be paid. Based on the interests of the people, the common people who lose their jobs, we will support an approach that shows that the bill will promote the protection of human rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u99	Thank you. Cibenko Peter Stepanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u100	Thank you! The Communist faction Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! As a member of the faction and author of one of the previous texts of this law, I am pleased that we have returned to this idea. Indeed, even under the normal conditions under which Ukraine is now, it would have to accept this document twice, or perhaps three times more, it would have to be accepted in today's world economic and financial crisis, unfortunately, the bankruptcy process, including artificial bankruptcy, will flourish. So the question that's being considered today is, you can actually appreciate, how do we leave a person's work and his family a chance to survive this situation or take away that chance? So the faction of Communists will certainly support this document. Indeed, it must be accepted today. Of course, at the stage of preparation for second reading, there are things that need to be corrected in this document. But it is imperative that we take one of the measures that can save a person in this situation and help him survive the hardships that exist today. Moreover, once again, I would like to point out that quite often we face the problem of artificial bankruptcy and bankruptcy. So the faction of the Ukrainian Company will certainly support this document and make suggestions for its improvement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u101	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u102	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. Honorable National Deputies, the 43rd article of the Constitution provides that citizens are protected by law to receive timely remuneration for their work. This is guaranteed in the Constitution. In fact, when businesses go bankrupt, there is no such thing. And that's why the bill that's being introduced and practically has to be renamed a little bit, and the Scientific and Scientific Administration has also noticed this detail, because we're only going to change it to one article of this law, up to 31. So that's what the law should be called. That is what we will call it: making changes to article 31 of the Ukrainian Law on Restoration or Recognition of the Debtor’s Payment. And then you have to agree with the proposals that are in many countries of the world that people who have led to bankruptcy, and you know that we have a bank that the Russian Federation then received, where Ukraine has refinanced three billion dollars, the National Bank of Ukraine. Because I don't consider today's leadership, the management of the bank to be Ukrainian leadership. They keep our gold stock in America, they don't work for this country. So, then it's going to be that the managers that led to bankruptcy, they're not just going to set their wages by 500 grand, as in that bank, that's 500 grand a month in the “BI”! Then it is asked, these are the managers, the chief accountants, and so on should not be included in the list of those to whom compensation is due because they have led to bankruptcy. That's why I'm asking you to adopt this law. And it's quicker that we accept it in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u103	Dear colleagues! According to the regulations, we have representatives of two factions that support the bill by a reduced procedure and two who do not support it. We got two in favour, one in favor, and one in favor, and one in favour. And he's asking me to step out of the Faction of Oleg Lazko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u104	Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Alexander Mikolaiovich, Oleg Lazko asks not to object, but to the bill. And for that matter, Alexander Volodymyrovich, I'm sorry, and for that I would like to say.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u105	I'm sorry, please turn off the microphone. People's deputies are protesting. It's a breach of order. It's only possible, two factions for or against. From the faction, we are guaranteed the right to speak in full procedure. The short procedure provides for two, two, against one faction, and there can only be one Ukrainian national deputy. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, Oleg Lazko, you're against the bill, please speak up.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u106	Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Our voters and Ukrainian citizens know that the Supreme Council generally adopts laws that do little to protect the interests of the working people. Here's today's bill from our colleague, member of the Yulia Timoshenko bloc, andry sunchenka, the opposite content. This bill is aimed at protecting the interests of the labour force itself, millions of Ukrainian citizens who have either been deprived of their jobs as a result of the bankruptcy of businesses and who have not received a salary or, perhaps, God forbid, will be deprived of their jobs. That's why we should thank the People's Deputy of Saintsenka, the House of Yulia Timoshenko, for having been proposed to the Supreme Council, and, personally, Julius Volodymyrni Timoshenko, who supports this bill, and who protects the interests of the labour people themselves. Because in the Supreme Council, there are usually laws that are lobbying to protect the interests of the clans that are represented in the Supreme Council. And today we have an example of protecting the interests of citizens of Ukraine of the average, low-security people who, as a result of bankruptcy, are deprived of the opportunity to get paid. We must therefore vote in favour of this bill and support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u107	Dear colleagues, I would like to ask everyone to be, firstly, mutual, and secondly, conscious when making decisions. If you are proposing a simplified procedure yourself, I ask you to follow the rules governing it. We have only two representatives from two factions – "for" and two factions – "against" in the Rules. We can't in this case. Then either you work full-time from no limitations, or if you want to work at short notice, please follow these standards. The discussion is over. I am voting on the adoption of the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Restoration or Recognition of the Debtor, registration number 1105. [[on the timeliness of the satisfaction of debt claims from wages]] Please vote. [[17:54:46]] For 401 Decision taken. I'm going to continue the evening planning session for 15 minutes. I'm announcing a draft law amending article 19 of the Ukrainian Cooperation Act, registration number 2158. [[on the acquisition of ownership rights by members of the cooperative]] National deputy of Ukraine, Zvaric Roman Mikhailovich, reports.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u108	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! The law that you are asked to consider actually corrects a mistake that broke into our legislative work two or three years ago. What are we talking about? The bill proposes to restore the right of members of cooperatives who have fully contributed their rations to the apartment, house, garage, and so on to use the appropriate cooperative. What's the problem? A member of the cooperative had the right to do so, as laid down in the Property Law. Instead, this law fell into effect in April 2007, and the current Cooperation Act, which entered into certain rules at the time of the current Property Law, did not simply translate into the current Cooperative Act this right that I'm talking about, that is, a member of a cooperative who fully contributed his rations to an apartment, a garage, something like that, that is, something that goes into the cooperative itself. It is also proposed to vote in favour of this bill in the first reading in order to take into account, as I see fit, the scientific expertise, in particular, the need to make appropriate changes to the Civil Code. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u109	Thank you. Have a seat, please. The report is headed by the Committee on Economic Policy's subcommittee, Gayman Oleg Eisikovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u110	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! The Committee on Economic Policy at its meeting on 14 May 2008 considered the draft Law on Amendments to Article 19 of the Ukrainian Cooperation Act, which was introduced by the National Deputy of Ukraine. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine shares the position of the author of the bill and recommends, on the basis of the first reading, the adoption of a draft law amending article 19 of the Cooperation Act on the basis of his comments and suggestions. The Cabinet of Ministers, in an expert opinion, supports the proposed bill aimed at protecting the rights of members of cooperatives, aimed at building apartments, houses, garages, and other buildings, building or building, and receiving these facilities. The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Act amending article 19 of the Act on Cooperation. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u111	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Let's sign up for a discussion. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u112	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. There were wishes for me to say about Natzbank, so I'll say that I'm waiting for President Victor Yushchenko of Ukraine to present a new candidate for the head of the National Bank of Ukraine. Because keep on holding and seeing what's going on. [[Applause]] Thank you for your support. Because you can't keep looking at how the national unit is oppressing, so you can't keep doing that. That's why it's a matter for both the coalition and everyone who's in power here, because everyone who's in this room today is in power. Why did I press the “against” button? In fact, Roman Mikhailovich, I will support the bill, and I will oppose the title of the bill and the fact that the bill only changes the law on cooperation, not changes the basic law. Because the basic law in this case is article 384 of the Ukrainian Civil Code, which regulates the rights of ownership, use and administration of the apartment in relation to the cooperative if not bought. Therefore, this law and the title of this law should be written: On making changes to article 300, excuse me, to article 384 of the Civil Code of Ukraine and article 19 of the Cooperation Act. This must be done in preparation for the second reading. In general, the bill is absolutely right to protect the rights of citizens. Only I would like us to realize that the Civil Code has a much broader application and a completely different subject, a more serious subject of regulation than a narrow law, where article 19 of the Cooperation Act. That's why I pressed this button to generalise the "minus" button. And I'm talking about the National Bank again to the President: please file a report on the replacement of Stelmacha. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u113	Ensign Alexei Vitaliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u114	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! There are at least three flaws that prevent us from supporting this bill. First, in view of the project's proposal to determine the ownership of members of residential, specific, garage or other cooperatives for an apartment or other suitable property, we propose that the matter be resolved not by making changes to Article 19 of the Cooperation Act, but by selecting it. or by selecting these questions in a separate article 19 prime. – the rights of housing, housing and other relevant cooperatives. Second offer. Since the project renews the rules on the transfer of the apartment, house, garage and other relevant property to the property of a member of the cooperative after the payment of the rations, which were in accordance with the Property Act, which has become invalid, the project should be complemented by a clarification of the relationship between this method of acquisition of ownership and the purchase of this property into a cooperative, which is provided for both by the project and by part of article 384 of the Civil Code of Ukraine. And third, we consider it necessary to complete the draft amendments to article 384 of the Ukrainian Civil Code, which provides for the transfer of the apartment to the property of a member of the housing cooperative after paying the rations. In this regard, we also propose that the title of the bill be clarified, since these three positions, especially the third position, do not allow them to adopt the bill in general, but also on the basis of that name. And the general conclusion is that it's an offer to reject or send for work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u115	Thank you. The discussion is over. I am voting on adoption on the basis of the draft Act on Amendments to Article 19 of the Cooperation Act on the acquisition of property rights by members of the cooperative, Registration No. 2158. I'd like to make a statement. [[18:03:54]] For the 250. Decision taken. A draft of Act No 2612 on the amendment of the Law on Pipeway Transport is being announced for consideration. Report: Ukrainian National Deputy Zarubinsky Oleg Aleksandrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u116	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Dear colleagues! Although the law is called Pipeway Transport, there is no word on the pipe and all that is involved. It's completely different. In February 2007, it was adopted at a meeting of the Supreme Council, the Law of Ukraine on the Amendment of the Law on Pipeline Transport, which prohibited the privatization and alienation of the main funds of the Ukrainian gas transport system. [[concerning enterprises in the main pipeline transport sector]] The law is absolutely right and the law is necessary in order not to waste the GTS that is being talked about so much right now. But there is one point, this law actually prohibits people who live in hostels that are on the GTS balance sheet to privatize their dwellings. This is how they did it in 2007, and people cannot realize their legal, constitutional right. At a time when everyone else can do so. And so the essence of this bill is simple, it's actually one line, but it restores the rights of thousands and thousands of people. The constitutional rights to housing and the rights that derive from the legislation that you and I have adopted that you can privatize the relevant rooms in dormitories. So essentially, I just want to read you one different thing from what there is. The operation of this part is not distributed to buildings of the housing fund of major pipeline companies. No underwater movements, no intrigue in this bill, believe me. We're restoring the rights of thousands and thousands of people, believe me. Thank you. Please vote for him, it's a fair law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u117	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Report: Head of the Committee on Fuel and Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, Martinenko Mikola Volodymyrovich. The committee head is missing, please sign up for discussion. Ensign Alexei Vitaliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u118	The honourable chairman and honourable national MPs are proposing to support this bill, taking into account in fact that it amends part two of Article 7 on pipeline transport in order to spread the possibilities of privatization to the housing fund that is on the balance sheet of these enterprises. In doing so, we will restore social justice in view of the fact that citizens working in pipeline transport will have the opportunity to privatize their dwellings in the same conditions as citizens working in other areas unrelated to pipeline transport. I mean, from this point of view, and very comprehensively said the reporter and the author of the bill, this is really a bill that needs to be supported, which has no relation to the pipe and for which I propose to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u119	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u120	Yuri Karmazin "The Party of Fatherland Defenders" "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense". Dear National Deputies! The absolute correct offer of Zarubinsky is essentially. I want to thank him for seeing this because there are such problems. But the name of the law has to be made completely different. In the second reading, that's exactly what I'm talking about. And we need to do all the legal work, because we're changing not all the forty articles of this law, we're changing only one sentence, we're making it to Article 7, part one, and we're making it to part one of the first articles of this law. So let us call this law: “To make changes to the part of the first article of the seventh Ukrainian Law on Pipeway Transport. ” This will be perfectly logical and correct. If we call it that, then this law could be passed immediately in both the first and the second readings. If the author agrees, if the chairman does not object. In general, the fact that we adopted the Law on pipeline transport as an object of property is a huge acquisition of the Ukrainian state. And what's now going on is speculation about these moments, and I want us to first, adopt this law right now in two readings, we owe a little bit of money today, because there's fourteen projects that we've put right now and everyone wants to like the people. First of all, we can do it. On the second occasion, I say, Mr. President, get Mr. Stelmach out of office as Head of the National Bank of Ukraine! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m1.u121	Thank you. The discussion is over. The Special Committee proposes to adopt the draft law as a basis. I am voting on the draft Act amending the Law on Pipeway Transport. [[on the lifting of the ban on the privatization of the housing fund of state-owned enterprises in the pipeline]] Registration No. 2612. I'd like to make a statement. [[18:10:21]] For 345. Decision taken. There was a proposal for the adoption of the draft law as a whole. Is there a denial of national MPs? Do National Deputies Have Objections? I'm voting on the adoption of the whole draft Act amending the Ukrainian Pipeline Transport Act. [[Registration number 2612]] Please vote. [[18:11:05]] For 352 The law was passed in general. I declare the evening plenary session closed. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., the morning plenary will begin.
