ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:07]] There were 429 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the Ukrainian national deputy Boyko Yuri Anatoliyovich. Let's welcome our colleague, wish him success. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, your announcement. According to the protocol of the regional party’s parliamentary factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine since October 8, 2009, and in accordance with article 60, paragraph 3, of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I report the expulsion of the Ukrainian national deputy, Kiselova Vasila Alexiyyovich, from the Party of the Regions’ parliamentary faction. On the basis of article 59, paragraph 4, of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I inform you that Ukraine’s national deputy, Kiselov Vasil Aleksiowiovich, is nonfractional. Ladies and gentlemen, you have a schedule. May I have your attention, please? You have a schedule for today, taking into account one problem. The first is the question of the release and appointment of members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The point is that yesterday we agreed in the line of work with the faction leaders that we are not going to deal with this issue today, we're moving it to the Thursday of the next plenary week. But since the distribution had already been printed, we did not recommend it. That's the first one. And the second. The President of Ukraine made a request that, according to the Rules, I emphasize, in accordance with the Rules, and therefore he admits that he is active, that the Supreme Council should consider the appointment of a foreign minister within a five - day term. So I would ask you to hold a consultation right now whether you would be willing to listen to the recommendations of the President of Ukraine and consider one question: the President's appointment of a foreign minister, as this is motivated, apart from the requirements of the Rules, by the fact that a number of documents are not signed to be signed by the Foreign Minister alone. And now, honourable colleagues, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules on Friday, we are making inquiries. Allow me to announce the parliamentary questions that have come from the Ukrainian National Deputies. VALERIA BONDIKA to the President of Ukraine on the gross violation of legislation by officials of the Ukraine’s Secretaryate in presenting and assigning honorary awards and titles. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. Dear colleagues, we are voting in favour of the request. [[10:04:41]] For 251 Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:05:00]] For 283 Decision taken. Michael PAPIEVA to the President of Ukraine regarding the removal of gross violations of citizens’ rights to a pension. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:05:28]] For 218. Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:05:46]] For 223 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 168, “Club of Timoshenko” – 1, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” – 6, Communists – 27, “Club of Lithuania” – 18, “Place of Action” – 3. I'm voting back on Michael Papiev's request. Return to the examination of Michael Papiev’s request. [[10:06:22]] For 216 It didn't work. The decision is not taken. SERGY VOCENA to the President of Ukraine on the failure of the President of Ukraine to protect the rights of Ukrainian citizens who suffered during the service at the Semipalatinsk nuclear site. [[Kazakhstan]] I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:06:56]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Ah, the decision's made, I'm sorry. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:07:18]] For 213 The decision is not taken. Groups of people's deputies to the President of Ukraine on financial violations at the mining companies of Minguggloprom. [[TURKEY, TEENAGERS, AND OTHERS]] I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:07:48]] For the 220. Offer supported. I'd like to vote on the request for the President of Ukraine. Asking the President of Ukraine. [[10:08:10]] For 215 The decision is not taken. Please, Alexander Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u2	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, I think I am addressing seven people's deputies, and I think that we are now doing the wrong thing by dividing ourselves politically. Our colleagues are preparing in good faith for today, and everyone is making his own requests. And perhaps what a person writes and refers to the President or the superior authority has not only hurt him, but it has hurt many people who turn to him. So I would very much ask: let's review our positions, let's support these requests, and let them work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I'll put it this way now, if you don't mind. At the same time, to return to the examination of the requests of Michael Papiev, Sergey Vlasenka, and groups of national deputies. [[12 People’s Deputies]] And then, if we go back, we vote separately. Is there no objection? You can't, so you can't. So I'm voting back on Michael Papiev's request. Please vote. Is that okay? [[10:09:38]] For 215 We're not back. I'm betting on the vote to return to the hearing of the National MP, Sergio Vlasenka. That's how we go back. [[10:09:59]] For 337 We returned to the request of Sergey Vlasenko. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:10:22]] For 364 We've got it. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. We supported it, and now we're talking about direction. [[10:10:42]] For three hundred Decision taken. I am now voting for the return of a group of national MPs, only 12 national deputies. [[Tulub, Titenko.]] On the return to consideration. [[10:11:07]] For 227 We returned to the consideration of this question. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:11:28]] For 216 Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:11:46]] For 219 The request is not addressed to the President of Ukraine. VALERIA BONDIKA to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the implementation of the provisions of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine. Vladimir DANILENK to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the introduction of mandatory information in Russian on the web site of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and for the organization of the work of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's websites from the profile directions for timely and reliable informing the population about the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Andrija SKILLY to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on inefficiency and significant calculations in the management of the Lvivgas mining administration by Alexander Sandega. Boris PETROVA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the failure to take account of the interests of the territorial community of Zaporozhye and the lack of funding for the construction of a highway through the Dnipro River, an improper consideration of the MP's appeal on the issues indicated. The Valerian to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the disposal of toxic chemicals stored in the territory of the Taurian Rural Council of the Tokmati district of Zaporozhye. Victor SLAUTI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the destruction of the Open Shareholder Society of the "Gubinian Sugar Plant" in the village of the town-type Hubinyev Novomoskov district of the Dnipropetrov region. Victor SLAUTI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the provision of assistance to victims as a result of the burning of the bus, which took place on February 12, 2009, on the 83rd km of the Dobropil - Red Lyman road. [[Donetsk Region]] Ms. Eugene KARJKOVA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the purpose of allocating funds to the utility company "The Lifetime Tram Traffic Authority". Ms. Eugene KARJKOVA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the legality of the activities of the international military corporation of another country within Ukraine. Igor ŠAROV to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the urgent need to build a new safe confination on the Chernobyl AES. MICHELLA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the verification of the correctness of housing and utility tariffs in the Slovenian Donetsk region. ZARUBINSKO'S Oleg to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the continuation of the half-day and non-performing practice of electricity exports to Ukraine, contrary to the rules of the Electricity Act. Oleg ZARUBINSKI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the arbitrary interpretation of the NAC "Naftogaz Ukraine" rules of the Ukrainian Law on Pipeline Transport, the violation by this company of Ukrainian citizens' housing rights and the deliberate extension of the permit to privatize the housing fund with the aim of selling other gas funds. Paul SULKOVSKI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-payment of the budget for agricultural enterprises to support the cultivation of sugar beet and lon-long. Roman ZABZALJECK to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for failure to carry out the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and failure to respond to the Ministry of Housing and Utilities of Ukraine for a parliamentary appeal regarding the stabilization of urban electricity in the city of Mikolayev. SERGEANT GORDIENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for not allowing the destruction of the sugar sector of Ukraine and, in particular, the Johnopil sugar plant of the Wonderland region of the Žitomir region. Sergia KOSHINA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the complete replacement of outdated electricity lines in the village of Bilska Vola Volodymirecki region of the Plain region. Sergia KOSHINA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of earmarked funds during the formation of the State Budget for Ukraine for 2010 for the construction of the public education school I-III graduated in the village of Poznan in the Rokitni district of Ravensk, which burned down since the power grid cut in August 2009. July NEW to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the illegal decision of the DAI Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine to increase the speed of traffic at the locations and the possible negative consequences of this decision. Jury CARMAZINA to the Minister of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, the Ministry of Finance, the Head of the Chief Audit and Audit Office of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Head of the Lviv District Public Administration for the Verification of Exceeding Official Powers, the Gross Violation of the Constitution, the Cabinet of Ministers Order of Ukraine of 26 November 2008 No1036, the Head of the General Directorate of Public Health of the Lviv District Public Administration, Vitali Kimakovich, expressed in the illegal introduction of new management posts in the administration and resulted in the misuse of budgetary resources in a particularly large amount, the application of measures to eliminate the specified orders and the decision to appoint him from office. Jury of CARMAZIN to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the State Committee on Forestry in Ukraine, Minister of Agriculture Policy of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Lviv District Council, Head of the State Environmental Inspectorate in the Lviv region, Head of the Lviv District Administration, Head of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Lviv region on the verification of illegal facts, by falsification of documents, by logging of the Carpathian region of the Lviv region, by persons of approximately 50,000 hectares, by civil society, by the Soviets of the "Word", by the "Zubr" and "Ekobeskid" in the Old Samobrian and Mostian regions. Vladimír SQUBENKA and Mikoli ŠERSHUNA to the Prime Minister for information on the state of preparation of energy clouds Nos. 1 and No. 2 of the EES until further exploitation in a super-project term or removal from operation. Group of People’s Deputies (LEMZI, RADKOVI, to the Prime Minister on the situation that took place in the Lake Sasik area. Group of National Deputies (MANKOVSKI, YANUKOVIĆA to the Prime Minister to increase the supply of school buses to the Chernigiv region in 2009 for the transport of pupils from general schools living in rural areas. Group of National Deputies (MANKOVSKI, YANUKOVIĆA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the settlement of the issue of the formation of expenditure on education of a student in the regions of Ukraine. Dmitry Sandler and Alexia Fedun to the Prime Minister on the cessation of the Odessa oil processing plant. Mr. Andrija SKILJA to the Head of the Supreme Court, the Attorney-General, on the application for approval of the Supreme Court of Ukraine on 16 January 2008 for a summons by the Borispilla interdepartmental prosecutor for the illegalization and cancellation of the authority of the former head of the Borispilla District State Administration, Mr. Alexander Žuka. Valentina MATWEJEVA to the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine on a socio - dangerous situation that has resulted in financial security for the viability of the city of Cernigiv. Valery BARANOVA to the Head of the Supreme Audit Authority of Ukraine on the unsatisfactory review of the parliamentary appeal by the control and audit authorities in Zaporozhye region. Vassil SPAK to the head of the High Council of Justice on the legal assessment of the actions of the head of the Polonian District Court of the Hmelni district of Bogdan Bobyak and his responsibility. VICTOR PAULENKA to the Minister of Economy of Ukraine regarding the situation surrounding the inappropriate preparations for Ukraine's participation in the 2010 World Exhibition. VOLADIMARY to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine regarding the deliberate failure of the courts to execute decisions by members of the police in the city of Kirovgrad, who instead of carrying out the necessary investigations, make voluntary decisions. Viacheslava KYRILENKA to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the abuse of State symbols in the region of Golovanów. Edward PRUTNIK to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine on the need for urgent measures to prevent the reduction of personnel at the Feldscher-Acksheri district of the village of Palčica, with more than 500 people, 72 of whom are children, in the Bahamas region of Chernigiv, and to create the right conditions for accessing the rural population to health care through the full support of the country of rural medicine. Eduard PRUTNIK to the Ministry of Transport and Liaison of Ukraine regarding the collective appeal on behalf of the Shumeykov village of Kurinska Silrada community, signed by 42 people on the need to organize a stop to the suburban trains of Bachmach - Romodan and Bachmach - Kachanovka and to take appropriate measures to create conditions for the use of rail transport for residents of the Bahamas region of Chernigiv. Igor ALEXEYEVA to the Ministry of Internal Affairs regarding the re-examination of the legality of the activities of the Rural Council of the Hmelni district and the Hmelni district government regarding the distribution of a large number of State land and the local authorities of the Ministry of Internal Affairs regarding their passive involvement and unwillingness to investigate these crimes. Igora RIBAKOVA to the head of the Council of Judges of Ukraine for the conduct of a review of the activities of the Primorski District Court of Odessa and the resolution of the issue of the release of Sergio Kitchmarenko from office of head of the court. Igor Rybakova to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the immediate elimination of the organized crime and smuggling group of Badjak and the return to the State budget of Ukraine lost as a result of its operation of millions of dollars. MICHELLE RUDEN to the Head of the State Committee on Land Resources for the Protection of Deprived Rights of the Head of Farms, Niwa, located in the village of Ugrini Tisminicki district of Ivano-Frankiv district, Roman Slobodan. Mikoli Shershun to the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine on the transfer of property of military towns No.57 and 59 military parts of the A-0991 city of Kostopil Plains region to the common property of the rural communities of the Plains region. Mr. Mikoli Sherschun to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the protection of the wrong rights of the farm "Lanetsky" village of Plisskov in the Vynnitz region. Mr. Oxana Bilozir to the Minister of Education and Science for the proper examination of the complaint of the professors of the State Technical and Vocational Training Institute of the Killian Professional Charter. OXANA BILOSIR to the Ministry of Education and Science on the use of urgent measures to reduce the level of aggression, cruelty and violence in public educational institutions. Ms. Aleksandra ŠEPELEVA to the Ministry of Health on the urgent use of measures to prevent the recurrence of infant deaths as a result of vaccination. Alexander ŠEPELEVA to the Ministry of Health on the urgent use of measures to prevent the recurrence of mass food poisoning in preschool facilities. Alexia KOSTUSEVA to the President of the Football Federation of Ukraine on the inadequately gross reaction of the Odessa authorities and personally the mayor of the city of Eduard Gurveitz to the decision of the UEFA to determine the number of cities to take the final tournament of the 2012 European Football Championship. Paul SULKOVSKOVSKI to the minister of internal affairs for the extraction of sugar from the canister, which was allocated to the Agrarian Fund of the Ministry of Agrarian Policy of Ukraine for the settlement of sugar prices. SERGEANT GORDIENKA to the Ministry of Transport and Communication on the need to restore the speed train stop "Moscow Covell" at the station of the Amazing Wallin South-West Railway, which took place for thirty years, and to ensure the ability of the inhabitants of the Wonderland, Romanovsky, Lubarsky regions to reach other population areas of the State and the near border. Sergey KIVALOVA to the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Attorney General, on the prosecution's attempt to demonstrate the murder of an ATV broadcaster in Odessa. Sergey CRAPOVA to the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Attorney General, regarding the situation surrounding the Open Association of the Southern Radio Plant, the city of Yellow Waters of the Dnipropetrov region. Ulysses MOSTIPAN to the Minister of Justice, the Minister of Economics, on the improper consideration of the parliamentary appeal concerning the violation of the labour and social rights of Ukrainian citizens of the Dowiatska Faith, residents of the village of Olshanica of the Rokitan region of the Kyiv region, institutions of the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Economics of Ukraine. LITHUANIA’S Jury to the Head of the State Committee on Land Resources, Attorney General for Inventory of Lands of the State Enterprise, Borispol International Airport. National MPs’ groups to the Minister of Health on the provision of endoprosthetics. [[COMARA, MANKOV AND OTHERS]] Groups of national deputies to the Head of the State Road Service of Ukraine to ensure that road works are properly carried out in the Chernigian region, according to Cabinet Regulation No. 212 of 18 March 2009. [[COMARA, YANUKOVIĆA, and others]] Groups of National Deputies to the Ministry of Transport and Liaison on bringing information policy into line with Ukrainian legislation at airports, railway stations, and other public passenger transport sites. [[STOP, CYRILENA, MOYSICA]] Groups of National Deputies to the Head of the Security Service, the Attorney-General, on financial violations in the coal- and coal-prome companies. [[TURKEY, TEENAGERS, AND OTHERS]] People's Deputies' Groups to the Minister of Education and Science on the results of the introductory campaign to Ukraine's higher education institutions in 2009. [[JANUKOVI, LUKYANOVA, AND OTHERS]] Groups of National Deputies to the Ministry of Education and Science regarding the provision of schoolchildren living in rural areas by school buses. [[JANUKOVI, LUKYANOVA, AND OTHERS]] ANDRYA PAVLOWSKI to the Attorney General on the prohibition of illegal privatization of municipal property in Kiev. VALERIA CONANOVALJA to the Attorney General for speeding up the examination of the report of the Interim Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the question of the circumstances of delivery to Georgia of Ukrainian military equipment. Valery of the Writer-General to the Attorney-General on the facts of the violation of the Ukrainian Act on the Prohibition of Playing Business in Ukraine by the State lottery operator of the Society with limited responsibility, M.S.L., in the form of the SPORTLIG lottery. Vassil DEREVENUE to the Attorney General regarding the improper examination by the Prosecutor’s Office of the Ternopil region of the facts set out in the MP’s statement. Vassil, who is the Attorney General’s Attorney - General’s Office for the improper consideration of the MP’s appeal. Vasila PETOVKI to the Attorney General for the verification of compliance by the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the area of purchase of goods, jobs, services during the acquisition of visual control devices for the speed of "VISIR". VICTOR ALIENICA to the Attorney-General on the invocation of the responsibility of persons involved in the decommissioning of the State budget of Ukraine specially largely allocated to the completion of the construction of the Pathological Anatomy Corps with the laboratories of the Scientific Center for Radiation Medicine of the Academy of Medical Sciences of Ukraine to the production and commercial enterprise Montažagroud. WOLDODIMIR JAVORIJA to the Attorney General for violating the requirements of land legislation by the Donetsk industrial clans in the rental of the nature monument of "Jerela Kalmius" in the village of Mineral Yasinavat district of the Donetsk region, resulting in the loss of unique mineral sources. John STATION to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the inaction of the Lviv District Attorney’s Office. LEVA BIRJECA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the involvement of the leader of the anti-rider association of Ukrainian entrepreneurs, Andrija Semidídek, and the gang leader, who operates under the cover of an anti-rider organization. Mr. Nestor SHUFRIĆ to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the grounds for the State's protection of the former Head of the Ukrainian Secretary of the Republic of Ukraine, Victor Baloga. Oleg LUKASHUKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the inappropriate response to parliamentary appeals. ALEXANDRA DONI to the Attorney General on the improper examination of the MP’s appeal for the possible involvement of the head of the Kharkiv District Administration, Arsen Awakov, in an attempt to take businesses illegally. Alexander DOUBLE to the Attorney General for the illegal activity of the former head of the BTI community enterprise in the city of Reni Odes district of Katherina Lenchevsk. [[Technical Inventory Office]] Roman ZABZALJUKA to the Attorney-General for failure to execute the mandate of the Attorney-General of Ukraine and failure to provide an answer to the Office of the Prosecutor of the Mikolayev Region for a parliamentary appeal regarding the non-payment of salaries to the Public Enterprise team of the Woznesen Association of Agricultural Products. Mr. Ruslan KNEZVIĆA to the Attorney General on the inaction of the Public Prosecutor’s Office in the Lviv region. Stepan DAVIMIKI to the Attorney General on the unlawful actions of the former director of the Society with limited responsibility for "Octant" and the official inaction of the law enforcement authorities of Lviv and Lviv region. Groups of national deputies to the Attorney General of Ukraine to study the circumstances of the origin of the funds spent by the Head of the Kyiv District Administrative Court, Oleg Bachun, on the purchase of two mobile phones made of precious metals, worth over $30,000 each. [[BONDAR, IVANENKA, AND OTHERS]] Groups of National Deputies to the Attorney General for establishing the origins of the funds spent by the Chief of the Kyiv District Administrative Court, Oleg Bachun, on the payment of a private plane to fly to elite rest in Calari Province, amounting to over 400 teachers ’ salaries. [[TRAIDUKA, ZADZAKA AND OTHERS]] [[Sardinia, Italy]] Groups of National Deputies to the Attorney General's Office to investigate the acquisition by the head of the Kyiv District Administrative Court of Oleg Bachun of 6.5 hectares of land previously belonging to the camp for recreation and rehabilitation of children in the city of Butch Kyiv district and the establishment of sources of money that were spent by the head of the Kyiv District Administrative Court on the construction of its own elite villa worth several million dollars. [[TRAIDUKA, COMPUTER AND OTHERS]] Irina HERASTENKO and Olga HERASIMYUK to the Attorney General of Ukraine for statements by the mayor of Uzhgrad aimed at fuelling national hatred and hatred. Alexander DOUBT to the Kiev District State Administration on the solution of pollution problems by sewers in the city of Irpin. Alexia KOSTUSEVA to the Odessa city head regarding the failure of the Odessa City Council executive committee to prevent the destruction of the Hadjibei Lima Dam in Odessa, which could lead to a huge technological and ecological disaster on the Northwest coast of the Black Sea. MOSTIPAN’S Ulysses to the Head of State for Environmental Protection in the Kyiv region regarding the improper consideration of the parliamentary request to delay the processing of documents by the Kagarlitsky Rural Council of the State Environmental Protection Authority of the Kyiv region. Thus, the honourable colleagues, all the questions that have come, have been made. Dear colleagues, as we continue to consult on the staff issue on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, there is this request: we are moving on to the following questions, and I have a strong request for you, dear colleagues, let us work without interruption, so that at 13 hours we can move on to the presentations in the “Variable” so that we can consider the issues that have been decided on today's schedule. No objections?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u4	Thank you for your support. It's being announced. And, dear fellows, I have another suggestion: let's take a brief look at all the issues to complete the discussion. I'm asking you to back me up. I am voting on the short-term procedure for the issues set out in the schedule for today. Please vote. [[10:33:22]] For-29 So, we're not going to be looking at it in the short term, are we? Okay, we're doing it right. Dear colleagues, a draft decree on the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the circumstances of the arbitrary capture of land and illegal construction in Simferopol: housing, office and entertainment centres, and the inaction of law enforcement agencies is under consideration. The rapporteur is Ukraine's national deputy, Kiselov Vasil Alexiyovich. The focal point will be the chairman of the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Ensuring the Activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Efraemov Alexander Sergiyovich. Please, Vasil Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u5	Thank you. Honourable National Deputies, on April 16, the lead of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Volodymyr Mihajlovich Litwin, announced my parliamentary request to the Attorney-General and Prime Minister of Ukraine to halt the illegal construction of residential, office and entertainment centres in Simferopol, including the self-absorbed areas in the Gagarin holiday park. And that's when a simple citizen can't get a residential area for years. Those with authority and permission to rebuild a two - story one - story building, violating all the rules and regulations, constructing seven - story office centers will be cash, not paying taxes to the city’s budget, and washing away millions of dirty money. All attempts to stop illegal construction have been prompted by the inaction of the prosecutor’s office and the decisions of the courts that legitimize illegal permits and prohibit the suspension of the building license. It was that my MPs even stopped responding to the standard letters. Ladies and gentlemen, please support the Supreme Council's decision to create a TSC on the investigation of circumstances regarding the arbitrary capture of areas and illegal construction in Simferopol. Because I am convinced that only the Supreme Council can stop this mess. And now, essentially, the decision itself. Determining the main task of the Interim Investigation Commission is to investigate circumstances. The other one. The composition of the commission is to identify five deputies, elect the head of the Kiselov commission, the deputy of the Omelchenka Grigori Omelanovic. To select Baburina from the Communist Party, Baranova from the Lithuanian bloc and Kendzior Jaroslav Mihajlovich from the "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" bloc. To determine the term of the commission's activity is three months from the date of the decision. The previous report shall be submitted not later than one month after the adoption of this decision. The decree takes effect from the moment it is adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, is there a question for the reporter? You don't? Sit down, Basil Alexiyovich. Please, Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u7	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, honourable colleagues, committee of 8 July this year reviewed the draft of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the establishment of a Temporary Investigative Commission on the Investigation of Situations concerning the Willful Seizure of Landplaces in Simferopol, as well as the illegal construction of housing, office and entertainment centres and the inaction of law enforcement bodies, introduced by the National Deputy of Ukraine Kiselov. In its consideration of the matter, the Committee noted that the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine was drafted and registered in accordance with the requirements of articles 85, 87, and 90 and 92 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. In doing so, the Committee reports that the funds provided for in the 2009 Costorius of the Supreme Council for the technical, personnel, information and organizational provision of the temporary commission have already been used, as only 10 temporary commissions were envisaged. We therefore suggest that the Supreme Council of Ukraine determine whether to maintain a temporary investigation commission without material, technical, information and organizational security. The committee decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine consider the project, taking into account the Committee’s proposals. Please support the committee's decision. And also, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, we have proposals from the factions in exchange for the candidates, this committee, and we ask them to take them into account when dealing with the issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u8	Dear colleagues, there are no questions for us. No, we're sitting down. Only here. Dear colleagues, there's a letter from the committee from the faction of such content, I'll read it again. “In connection with the existence of circumstances which, in accordance with article 87 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, prohibit the national deputy of Ukraine, Kiseljov, from participating in the work of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the circumstances surrounding the arbitrary capture of land, as well as the illegal construction in the city of Simferopol of residents, offices, entertainment centres and the inaction of law enforcement authorities, the deputy faction proposes to elect the head of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Dear colleagues, this is where we have a conflict, that according to the current practice, the composition of the TSC is formed on the proposal of the faction. Do you understand? That's why. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, Knyazevich, microphone. Then Chechtev. Then there's Matthew. Well, not all at once. I'm asking you, one of the factions, let's work this out. The prince will express the faction's position. Chechchev will express the faction's position.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u9	This is exactly what the colossal is. Vladimir Mikhailovich, this isn't exactly what you're talking about. And the fact that the Party of the Regions today made a willful decision to exclude Vasil Kiselov from the faction. So today he can only represent a group of nonfractional ones. And since there are no others, according to the factions, who deny that he represents a group of non-fractionals on this committee, we consider it appropriate, as a compromise in the future, to allow that one representative of the faction of the Regions may be added to this coalition. But this will in no way affect Mr. Kiselov's representation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u10	Please, Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u11	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! I agree with the reasoning of the previous colleague, so I am withdrawing my statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u12	Please, Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u13	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! In general, I believe that we must be guided by the laws and regulations of the Supreme Council, which we have determined for ourselves. And there is a right for the faction to send its representatives to the commission, and no one in the faction can take that right away. That is why, according to the right granted to us, instead of one candidature, we present another representative to this commission. If another faction wishes to grant a right to another person instead of its quota, it is his right. But I do not know how much this will be in accordance with the Rules until such a rule is laid down in the Rules. And we can only do that in a voluntary room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u14	Just a minute. Anatoly Matvienko. Then there's Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u15	The Ukrainian Republican Party of the Council. Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense. Dear colleagues! The fact that such a commission is to be created is obviously beyond question that there are real problems. On the other hand, it is not at all a correct appeal by the Party of the Regions to the Supreme Council regarding some of its internal problems for Mr. Kiselov. You really have the right to replace a person, but that doesn't mean that it has to be written, some kind of pasta, that's your own business. So this is obviously an invalidity that should be taken into account. But the legal right of the Party of the Regions to switch candidatures. But since Mr. Acidov is the initiator of this commission, there is a proposal to support his membership as a non-factional committee. And with regard to the head, Vladimir Mikhailovich, we can appoint a commission and assign the commission to choose the head, not necessarily the decision of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u16	Yuri Carmazin and we will be determined by vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u17	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Protectors of the Country “Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense”. Ladies and gentlemen, I have worked for four years as the head of the commission to study the political and legal situation in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. I keep watching what's going on there. A few days ago, he was also there, and I claim that the draft decision made by the Oxelles has the right to exist. According to the Rules, according to the Constitution he has the right to initiate questions, nowhere is it written that he can't be the head, that the head should be just the faction. It's not written anywhere. On the contrary, it is written that factions have representation, no one forbids representation. That's why I think there's the text of the ruling, it can be voted on, 150 votes to form a commission and to elect a head. It's not going to be voted out, we're going to vote on another proposal. As long as there's an offer in the paper that's in it, with acid on its forehead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u18	Taras Cranville, then Sergei Sass.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u19	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, my dear colleagues, this is no longer the first legal conflict and contradiction between the Rules and the Constitution. The fact is that the Constitutional Court actually made the fact that there were non-factional deputies impossible to decide a year or two ago. If we have this fact, it's created, until there's any explanation, we have to follow the rules of the Constitution that determine what and how a deputy can do: speak, participate in commissions and so forth. [[Here only – the Constitutional Court, another cannot interpret]] The Constitution is higher than the Parliamentary Rules. So I ask you once again to remind yourself that you gave three months ago an order to the regulatory committee to figure out how non-fractional people are supposed to perform, to record a short-term speech, how to participate in commissions and so on. And now I suggest that from the non-factional, let Kiselov be a member and head of the commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u20	Sergey Sass, then Alexander Efraemov, in connection with Taras Chernobyl.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u21	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! The question of the creation of a temporary commission of inquiry following the initiative of the People’s Deputy, Kiselov, was put on the agenda. As the subject of the legislative initiative, the national deputy, Kiselov, had the right to make such a draft decision. The draft decision should be considered as it has already been considered, and a decision should be taken on this point. No changes, no details. With regard to the limitation of being chairman of the commission, the Rules provide for only one condition: no committee head and a national deputy may be elected as chairman of the temporary commission. may not be the elected head of the committee. There are no other limits to the Rules. Or if the deputy is already a member of another interim or commission of inquiry. So Volodymyr Mihajlovich, I ask you to put to the vote the question of the outcome of the consideration that has been made, if a decision is taken, then it will be created.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u22	Give me a chance to finish the thought, please. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u23	Thank you. So Volodymyr Mikhailovich, if there is a proposal to change the composition of the commission, after the creation of the commission, the Supreme Council may decide to change the composition. But this requires a decision that is made by 226 deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u24	Sergei. Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u25	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! We don't.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u26	There was a observation by Taras Crnovol.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u27	Each MP shall participate in the work of the Commission. This is unquestionable, but we cannot challenge the faction's right to submit our nominations. We have submitted nominations and then, at a certain point, one candidature has been withdrawn and another candidature has been submitted. If anyone wants to run for office for the person who's been called off, please, let him pass. In this case, however, we enjoy the rule of the Rules which gives the faction the right on the basis of quotas determined by the faction to represent its deputies in the work of the Commission. Which we ask to take into account, Vladimir Mihajlovich, because there is no representation on this candidature. Vasil Alexiovich Kiselov, please. And now we're going to decide, make decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u28	Dear colleagues, there is nothing but an attempt to torpedo the establishment of this commission, since it is a very resonant commission, will be the decision of this commission. I wish to remind Alexander Sergeevich that I am the author of this draft regulation. And today, if you're sending me off this commission, there's no commission order. I am the author of the commission. I therefore request that the draft resolution be put to the vote and that it be voted on.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u29	Dear colleagues, for this situation to be normalized, there is an offer. I think Anatoly Sergiyovich was absolutely right, because now there's going to be a storm in an empty space. Now let's go with you to confirm the composition of the commission. [[B in m in s a l in]] Huh? I'll be there in a minute. I'm going to read the composition of the commission, and we're going to approve the composition of the commission, so let them gather and determine how they organize their work. [[B in m in s a l in]] One minute! I say again, we're going into a collision because factions -- you listen, please, factions are delegating their representatives. So to get out of this situation, I'm going to propose: I'm going to read the list of members of the committee now, and we're going to vote. And please, calm down! I ask you once again, please, in accordance with the Rules, the candidates for the TSC are exclusively proposing factions. I read the names, and you listen! That's wrong. That's right. [[B in m in s a l in]] Listen, please. I want to do it again. My last name is Kiselov. [[B in m in s a l in]] Are you listening or not? Omelchenko Grigory Omelyanovich, Pavlenko Edouard Ivanovich, Baburin Olexy Vasilovich. Thank you. Baranov Valeriy Alexiyovich, Kendzior Jaroslav Mihajlovich Are there any warnings about candidates? I read it. One minute, I'm reading to you. Establishment of temporary special commissions and a temporary commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Proposals, paragraph 3, and proposals for the quantification and personal composition of a temporary special commission shall be made in writing by the MPs within a five - day period from the date of the written request of the initiator, the initiators of the temporary special commission. As part of a temporary special commission, no less than one national deputy may be represented than each MP. If the deputy faction did not offer a fixed term for representatives to work on a temporary special commission, the commission shall be established without the participation of the representatives of the deputy faction. What else do you need to know? Let's do it this way. What!? I'm asking you, Your Honor, you'll all be interpreting the Rules, let me conduct the meetings. Sas Sergey, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u30	Thank you. Vladimir Mikhailovich, a temporary commission of inquiry according to part two of article 87, is established under the rules of a temporary special commission. Thus, in order to create a commission of inquiry, it is necessary to adopt a decree and that which should be clearly defined in section 4 of the Rules, article 85. Paragraph 4 lists, inter alia, the number of members of the temporary special commission, the head of the special commission, and the deputy. So the Supreme Council determines the head and the deputy. And as for what you've been treating, absolutely right, the initiator is Acid, the factions should send their members there, but as a national deputy and initiator, the subject of the law, we can't stop being Acid, including the head of the commission, he's the initiator. So put to the vote, without prejudice to anything that is under consideration today. Because it should be logically completed and made a decision. A decision will be made, a commission will be created. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u31	I, my dear colleagues, would like to ask all of you to calm down for a moment and allow me to put my mind to the end. I only started the first part and offered it to you. Now the decision of the Supreme Council to approve the composition of the commission. Then I will put to the vote a proposal on the head of the commission and on the deputy head of the commission. We will vote each paragraph separately and make the appropriate decision. You don't want to listen. I'd like to tell you again, dear colleagues. You need a riot, and I need a working Supreme Council of Ukraine. You need to block everything that's blocked. You, when you need to, refer to the Rules. Please calm down. Now let's do it this way. I'll put it to the vote now. First. To confirm the composition of the interim commission. Then there were two suggestions. The first suggestion was that the head and the substitute head be approved. It won't pass, then I'll put another proposal to the vote. What else do you need?Oh, my God! Please, Mikhaylo Chechtov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u32	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! But in order to calm down the hall, you read the staff and tell the faction that he's delegating and putting a stop to it. Specifically, the name and the faction of the delegation. His last name and what a faction. And then it'll be clear who to vote for.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u33	Dear colleagues! Anatoly Matvienko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u34	The Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, the "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" block. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I read the rules of this Rules just like Mr. Sas. Indeed, the Supreme Council determines the issue of heads and intercessors. But it defines whether or not we can write down the commission's mandate to select the head and deputy at our meeting. And this will be done by the rule of law and the corresponding paragraph. I once again support your desire not to disturb, but the logic that can be allowed today can once again become the inactive Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u35	Dear colleagues, if we're going to compete with you right now, I'd like to say that if the MPs didn't offer representatives to work on a temporary special committee, the commission would be created without the participation of representatives of this deputy faction. No suggestions were made for the scheduled deadline. But along with finding a way out of the situation, that's the offer. I'll read you the composition of the committee again. And let's not exaggerate the work of the commission. Depends on whether she wants to work. We have 20 committees, we have 21 commissions, the main one to produce a result. So I'm going to read the factions again. Yes, I do. Acid Vassil Alexiyovich, non-fractional for today. Next, Omelchenko Grigory, BUT faction. Baburin Alexei, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Baranov Valerius, "Block of Lithuania" faction, Kenzior Jaroslav, faction "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense". Are they all represented? All represented. That's why. Oh, I'm sorry, and Pavlenko Edward, faction of the Party of the Regions. Please, Alexander Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u36	Vladimir Mihajlović, distinguished colleagues who have applied the Rules, confirm that the Commission must be represented on a quota basis. And everyone would agree that the commission that was formed or was now trying to take a decision was in violation of the rule of the Rules of Procedure on the establishment of a quota commission. If this committee is formed under a political order, let's talk about it. Now, the next rule that I would particularly like to address is Sergei Vladimirovich. He strongly advocates this rule when we form a commission, that members of special commissions and investigators are not entitled to participate in commissions of special and investigators who are directly interested in resolving a conflict. In this case, there is a direct norm of interest for a member of the commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u37	Vladimir Strtovich and we will now vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u38	Vladimir Stretović, Christian-Democratic Union, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense”. A colleague of Ephraim is slightly deluded because a member of the Giga Party is constantly leading the interim commissions on Lucenk, where they are particularly interested in doing so. So this argument doesn't work. And the Constitution, which is a matter of social interest, the Supreme Council has the right to set up commissions. So the question is solved. And the second is about quota. When this is recorded in the Rules, it is the right of each faction, not the obligation. If you don't want to delegate, that doesn't mean the commission can't be created. If the Supreme Council considers it necessary to make such a commission, and we see that it needs to be created in this situation, put it to the vote, Volodymyr Mikhailovich. The second vote is who you choose as your head and deputy, and I'm closing the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u39	Dear colleagues, let us close this subject and make a normal decision. First, let's figure it out. Is this the kind of commission you need to create? What's wrong with us in Crimea? You should. Let's get out of this. It's pepper. The other one. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, there should be no less than one representative per faction. What we're proposing is publicized. In order to get out of this coalition, I will reread the list; we will vote with the composition of the committee; the commission will gather and make the appropriate decision. I beg of you, dear fellows. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I beg you, do you want a riot or a meeting of the Supreme Council? Well, let's work. So once again, I'm going to read out the suggestions on the composition of the committee: Basil Kiselov is a non-fractional, Gregory Omelchenko is a BUT faction, Edward Pavlenko is a faction of the Party of the Regions, Alexy Babourin is a faction of the Communist Party, Baranov Valerius is a faction of the Lithuanian bloc, Kenzior Jaroslav is a faction of the bloc “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-defence”. Now, who's in favour of adhering to this composition, I would like to stress, this composition of the TSC, please vote for the composition of the TSC. [[I'll put a ruling to the vote later.]] [[11:00:17]] For 115 The decision is not taken. I will once again put to the vote in such a way as to approve a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine with the composition that I have previously set up for you on the establishment of an interim commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the situation of the arbitrary seizure of land, as well as the illegal construction in the city of Simferopol of housing, office and entertainment centres, and the inaction of law enforcement authorities. I'll bet you a vote. Please vote. [[11:01:03]] For 359 Decision taken. I thank you very much for your support. Colleagues, we need to now consider a number of issues regarding the elimination of differences in the laws that we passed with you earlier. On the elimination of disagreements in the text adopted on 04.06.2009 of the Act on the amendment of certain Ukrainian legislation on the protection of soil fertility. [[Registration number 2626]] Dear colleagues, you're being handed over for this proposal. Is there no objection? You won't? I'm voting on the adoption of clarifications to the law we've passed. [[Registration number 2626]] Please vote. [[11:02:15]] For 402 Decision taken. Thank you. The second issue is the elimination of disagreements in the text of the Law on General Principles of State-Private Partnership adopted on 25.06.2009. Roman Tchac, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u40	Roman Tkac, group “For Ukraine!” Dear Volodymyr Mihajlovich, as you remember, respected colleagues, Oleg Ljasko, Yuri Klukkowski and I – we raised the question when this bill was being considered, that it would be excluded from literally 3 articles of the Ukrainian Code of Land. We've filed a motion for a ruling with my colleagues. This ruling is registered with the Supreme Council, and a regulatory committee has considered it. And the regulatory committee agreed with our ruling, which was the whole point of this: simply to reverse the vote on this bill. Today, Vladimir Mikhailovich, a new bill is actually being proposed today. You can't vote for him. There's a lot of disagreements here. So I ask this option: either take this issue off the table and let it go on all committees: land, economic policy committee -- or just go back and vote down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u41	Dear colleagues, when I announced the issue, it was precisely that we cannot, in fact, get a new law after the Supreme Council's decision, which the Supreme Council of Ukraine did not vote on. So it's about canceling the results on the vote relative to the law we've passed. It's consistent with the decision that's been made. Please, National Deputy Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u42	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, but then we misproclaimed the question. Because if we're talking about cancelling the vote, let's just say that we're talking about a vote-back order, not a settlement of disagreements. These are different procedures, different content of the decree. If the vote is about cancelling and redrafting, that's one thing. And if it's about removing disagreements, then I'm sorry, there's new disagreements.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u43	My fellow Members, once again, I stress that we will now vote with you on a draft Decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the adoption of the whole draft Law on the General Principles of the Public Private Partnership. Registration number 3447. [[B in m in s a l in]] What? Yeah. Do you understand the offer? [[B in m in s a l in]] I am voting on the repeal of the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt the whole draft Law on the General Principles of State-Private Partnership. Registration number 3447-d. It's a draft regulation, registration number 3447-d/d. Please vote. [[11:05:50]] For 404 Decision taken. The next issue is the elimination of disagreements in the text of the Act on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on Promoting Entrepreneurship adopted on 25.06.2009. Registration number 4581.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u44	There's my offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u45	What?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u46	My suggestions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u47	Yes, please, Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u48	Dear colleagues, as one of the co-authors of this bill, I support the ideology of the bill that we must simplify and assist entrepreneurial activities, but I and my colleagues insist on voting on three amendments. Actually, it's one amendment, it's just registered by three deputies. And to our conviction, because the argument in favour of these amendments was invalid, for example, I'm going to read here this argument was that we need to support millions of working people in the village and our entire vineyard sector. I'll say that we voted, we voted that we have a fragmented trade in table wines, dry, semi-dry, semi-sweet can be done anywhere, without restrictions on the trading area, without checkers, without requirements that extend to trade and so on and so forth. That's where the Supreme Council will sell our wine. They'll sell it in kindergartens. First of all, it's a norm that doesn't apply to this bill, and we regulate it with other bills. Moreover, we have adopted a series of drafts where we are already on the offensive, banning the sale of sports objects on beaches. So are we going to let kids buy these wines and dumplings anywhere? Therefore, our colleagues and I demand that these amendments be voted on. If the session room supports it, we don't deny it. But we ask not to vote in favour of these amendments and to sign the bill without amendments 34, 35, 36.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u49	Dear colleagues, one minute. To close this question, I want to say that I have just consulted with the Chief Legal Office. We have new suggestions for the details we had, I will read them out. Then let them work together, for otherwise we must repeal the law, and then we will have to accept its clarification. See what this was all about. On June 25, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine to further improve the order of licensing of economic activity and to amend certain laws of Ukraine to facilitate entrepreneurial activity. [[Registration number 2391]] [[Registration number 4581]] Taking into account the fact that the aforementioned laws have voted the same changes to the individual articles of the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of economic activity and the Law on Chemical Sources of Electricity, taking into account the initiative of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, in accordance with Article 131 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules and with the aim of eliminating repetitions, I underline the repetitions in the amendments to Ukraine's laws on licensing certain types of economic activity and on chemical sources of electricity, provided for in the Act on the amendment of certain Ukrainian laws on the promotion of entrepreneurial activity, paragraph 9, paragraph 4, paragraph 4, paragraph 4, paragraph 4, paragraph 4, paragraph 4, paragraph 4, paragraph 4, paragraph 4, paragraph 4, paragraph 4, paragraph 4, paragraph 4, paragraph 4, paragraph 4, paragraph 4, paragraph 3, of the Act on Chemical Sources of Electricity, and the Law on Chemical Sources of Electricity, and the Law on Chemical Sources of Electricity, and the Law on Chemical Sources of Electricity, and the Law on Chemical Sources of Electricity. That paragraph 12 of section 1 and in section III, paragraph 1, of the Final Provisions, the words “to the third subparagraph of paragraph 9 of paragraph 5, paragraph 9 of section I which is acquired” shall be replaced by the words “to paragraph 2 of section 6 and “to be acquired” in connection with the modification of the paragraphs and sub-paragraphs of section I of the Act. So, your honorary colleagues, since there are new colossals, let's go back, let them look at it again. Please, Sergey Teryochin and Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u50	Dear colleagues! In this law there are not only those problems that Mr. Tomenko and the chairman spoke of. So let's say there's this position that in the case of what's called automatic licensing. If, for some time, no license is granted, it is considered to be granted automatically and so on. I mean, I'm not talking about the initiatives of our colleague Mrs. Lapina regarding wine, which, after she's added, you can sell that wine, you can sell it in any kindergarten. So there's this proposal, let's vote down the vote for this law as a whole. Let's put it on the profile boards so that all of these disadvantages can be removed. And the last. Vladimir Mikhailovich! I'd like that very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u51	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u52	Vladimir Mikhailovich! I would very much ask that we do not have this practice when we make some adjustments in our adopted acts. I'm reminding you that we've had such an interesting event in the paws of the past. in this call with your predecessor when we cancelled the Tender Procurement Act at his suggestion, and you know what's going on in this area. Also from the voice. So let us call off our vote and re-examine this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u53	Mikhailo Chechetov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u54	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, Sergey Anatolievich is absolutely right in one respect that today we do not have a second reading procedure, not a third reading procedure and today we are not amending any. We just have to remove the inconsistencies, maybe some irregularities in the numbering, and so on. There are already attempts to amend the law that affect the substantive part. Therefore, absolutely correct, then we must send the law to the committee and let the new committee introduce it, and we will vote again in favour of this law. Since this is no longer a solution to disagreements, and we have entered into the procedure of either third or fourth reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u55	Xenia Leapina, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense."
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u56	Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that there is now an attempt simply to falsify the Rules. I would like to remind you that this law has been considered in full procedure with all the amendments and proposals made in writing, and each amendment has been voted on separately in the room. The Hall supported the amendment to remove certain regulatory restrictions on the sale of natural, I would stress, wines. It's not exactly what my colleague was talking about, and I'm asking all the vodka lobbyists to calm down, nothing bad will happen to your vodka. I want to point out that removing regulatory restrictions is only a small compensator for the producers of our natural wines, which, unfortunately, we can't offer anything today, and this agrarian sphere, these are hundreds of thousands of jobs. And actually.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u57	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u58	Vladimir Mikhailovich, the discussion of this amendment took place on the rostrum at the right time and was approved. And I'm asking you not to raise that question anymore, but to do what we have under the Rules, that is, to remove legal differences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u59	Dear colleagues, let us do this now, as required by the Rules. Regardless of what the proposal here says, I support it personally, the legal authorities also suggest that it be cancelled and then processed. But I'm going to put it this way to support the Rules, and I'm going to put it this way, and I'm going to put it this way, if the Supreme Council doesn't support it, then we're going to automatically cancel it. Do you understand? I'll be there in a minute. You listen to me to follow the Rules. I'm going to put a motion on the vote to remove the disagreement. If the Supreme Council doesn't support this, I'm going to put the vote to end this adoption as a whole as a law and everything. But I've already read them, I've read these differences. So the first offer. I am voting on the elimination of disagreement in the text of the adopted law of 25.06.2009: “To amend certain laws of Ukraine on the promotion of entrepreneurial activity. [[Registration number 4581]] I've read you these suggestions. I'd like to make a statement. What I said was what I read. [[11:16:13]] For the 17th. No decision taken. I am voting for the annulment of the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt the whole Ukrainian Act on making changes to certain laws of Ukraine regarding the promotion of entrepreneurial activity. Registration number 4581. Please vote. [[11:16:46]] For 344 Decision taken. Next. Next question. How to Cope With Disagreements, 11 / 06 2009 The Securities and Stock Market Act on the Order of Action of the Issuer and Investors. Registration number 3584. Is there no objection? So I'm voting on the resolution of disagreements in the text adopted on 11.06. 2009 Securities and Stock Market Act on the Order of Action of the Issuer and Investors. [[Registration number 3584]] Please vote. [[11:17:40]] For 364 Decision taken. Next question. Concerning the Act adopted on 23.06.2009 on the amendment of certain legislative acts of Ukraine with a view to overcoming the negative effects of the financial crisis. [[Registration number 3585-P]] The committee, honourable colleagues, adopted such a recommendation: to cancel the vote on adoption in second reading and as a whole as a bill of the draft Ukrainian Law on amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine with the aim of overcoming the negative effects of the financial crisis. [[Registration number 3585]] People's MP, Arzhevtin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u60	Ladies and gentlemen, we have a designated Poluniev. He can say for that matter. But in yesterday's committee decision, we decided that we're going to make technical disagreements today, not we're going to cancel the vote. And 380 votes were in favour of the bill. So on Wednesday we decided that only legal disagreements, as recommended by the administration, were acceptable today. And this law is passed in general. That decision was made by our committee on Wednesday.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u61	No, no. Dear colleagues, I immediately, we have long dealt with this law. And what you're proposing is that it's essentially a new piece of legislation. No one, dear colleagues, discussed the matter. No one's going to break, we can just -- you listen to what I'm saying -- we can only do one thing -- delay the discussion. We've been seeing you, you've been talked to about this, and the Chief Legal Authority has been absolutely against the money you've been offering, because it's a new law. I propose to postpone consideration of this issue so as not to aggravate this problem. All of it. I want to say again, my dear colleagues, I don't need a decision from the committee, I need a decision from the General Legal Department. The decision is required, apart from your committee, by the Chief Legal Authority. Next question. Jehovah’s Witnesses — Jehovah’s Witnesses, 11 / 06 In 2009, the Ordinance on Amendments to the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov Dear colleagues, is there a need to report on this? You don't? I put to the vote a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine amending it. Change the vote. Please, head of the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Security of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u62	Dear colleagues, what is the question here. We have once decided to amend the Rules without yet having a law on the matter. We now have this law, but the introduction itself has been violated. Given that, literally within a week, the Regulatory Committee would introduce a new draft Rules for consideration by the Supreme Council, given that the Constitutional Court was considering the existing draft Rules, it would be a proposal and a reasonable one, there was no policy here, there was no purely technical question, to defer consideration of the matter before consideration and inclusion of the amendment directly into the Rules. Then we would not have violated anything, we would have done everything in accordance with the laws and regulations currently in force and we would have no questions. Thank you. The proposal, Vladimir Mihajlovich, proposed to support the postponement of the consideration of the matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u63	Move? No objections? Let's postpone the consideration of this issue. Dear colleagues! I go back to that proposal to urge the President of Ukraine to consider the appointment of a foreign minister. No objections? Please, Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u64	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Vladimir Mikhailovich, we do not deny to consider this issue, but there is one "but". At that time, we will be in violation of all the arrangements we have agreed on dozens of times that all personnel matters will be dealt with in a manner of action. Please, we are ready to consider the submission of the President of Ukraine today, but according to that number, when the turn comes. Start with the registration order and we're ready to look into it, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u65	Mikhailo Chechtov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u66	Vladimir Mihajlovich, thank you so much that, indeed, thanks to your efforts today, we have set up a constructive Parliament. One thoughtless step can be taken to break and enter the trap. Absolutely right, Adam Ivanovich. You don't need to get the phrase out of context. Next plenary week, we will consider the full personnel package and the withdrawal and voting, and we will systematically take all decisions. What the President does when, without agreeing with the Cabinet of Ministers, he appoints governors or shoots, yes, he doesn't look at the Constitution or anything. The fact that the President doesn't sign the laws when we're over the veto, he's not looking at anything. So let's teach the President a lesson. Yeah. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u67	Alexander Efraemov. I've asked you, dear colleagues, to hold consultations. I was told that the consultations had been held. There's no objection. This issue should be considered within five days according to the rules. Alexander Efraemov and then Carmazin. Come on, head of the Regulatory Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u68	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! In fact, Adam Ivanovich is right under the terms of our agreement. That's really what we agreed on. But when we asked these questions, we always said that we were not forming a government, so it was the coalition's right to ask or not to ask this question. If the representatives of the coalition felt that they should consider the matter as a matter of priority, the Party of the Regions would not object to its consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u69	Dear colleagues, let's do it this way. I'm asking the honourable colleagues to take their place now. There's no objection, there's the President's proposal. I'm asking, let's take a look at this. Is there no objection? Announcing the submission by the President of Ukraine of the appointment of the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, Prashenko Petra Alexiyovich. From the committee, please. Taras Blackwall, will you be with the committee? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, I'm very brief on the committee's decision, since the submission was made at the last minute after the official committee meetings. We were able to process the paperwork in the working order literally yesterday. The vast majority of the members of the committee, the vast majority, supported and confirmed this by their signatures of Peter Alexiyovich Prashenko. The first argument for committee members was that there is appropriate vocational education, despite working in other directions, in other structures, is the experience of dealing with international issues. And the main problem that was most important to us for the committee members who had made a positive decision is that the situation in the Foreign Ministry today is absolutely critical. And although it is sometimes thought that this ministry may be without a minister. Formally, it can't be like this. We have a huge number of absolutely illegal acts that are actually being passed on to international depositories of international treaties, and they can be questioned at any time. The Constitution, the laws of Ukraine, and our international treaties determine that there can be no obligation to do anything that could not replace the foreign minister in the matter of sending ambassadors, in the matter of signing the instruments of ratification, transferring them to storage, and putting them into effect. In fact, due to the absence of a foreign minister, our international activity, regardless of its direction towards the east or the west, is essentially blocked. Under these circumstances, our committee today asks that we reject any political passions, reject these misunderstandings, and still support the candidate. We think it's going to be a normal, good minister who's going to do the main thing for starters -- he's going to get the Ministry of Foreign Affairs out of the terrible, deep crisis that the ministry is in today. It's a total road crisis. The ministry and diplomatic service are falling apart. We don't even have a normal system of reporting in the Cabinet today. What are the financial needs of the Ministry? And in fact, the crisis that struck the currency, among other things, has only affected the Ministry of Foreign Affairs directly, since most payments are made there in currencies. Today, without having the opportunity to present our position as foreign political authorities, without good, reliable management and representation, we lose our foreign policy. And this, I want to remind you, is a real investment attraction, it's a continuation of the normal work of our businesses working on the external market, it's finally a respect for Ukrainian citizens abroad. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u71	Dear colleagues, do you have a question for Peter Prashenko? You don't? Then I ask you to prepare for the vote, please prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, I am putting to the vote a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the appointment of Prashenko Petra Alexiyovich as Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine. Please vote. [[11:28:46]] For 240 [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, Poroshenko Peter Alexiyovich is appointed Minister of Foreign Affairs. Honorary colleagues, the minister appointed to office, make an oath to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I invite you to take the oath of Immortal Peter Alexiyovich. And by factions, please. Region Party – 1, Timoshenko Yulia Block – 151, "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" – 63, Communist faction – 1, "Litvina Block" – 20, non-fractional – 4.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u72	An oath made by a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine I, Prashenko Peter Alexiyovich, aware of the high responsibility of a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, solemnly swear allegiance to the Ukrainian people, commit myself to upholding the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, strengthening the sovereignty and independence of Ukraine, upholding human rights and freedoms, and protecting the well-being of the Ukrainian people, and the continued democratic development of society. Thank you very much for your confidence, thank you very much. () [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u73	Dear colleagues, announcing themselves in the second reading. () [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, please, uh, uh, uh... Dear colleagues! () [[B in m in s a l in]] Peter Alexiovich, I'm asking you to join the government. Thank you. The draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on strengthening fiscal discipline is announced for consideration, and the Rapporteur is head of the committee on budget issues for Kulikov Kirilo Borisovich. [[Registration number 2329]] [[second reading]] Please make a proposal to the committee. Dear colleagues, please go to work!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u74	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u75	I'm asking you, dear colleagues, then. Report.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u76	Congratulations, Peter Mikolaiovich. I'm on it. Dear colleagues!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u77	Peter Alexiovich, please! Calm down, dear fellows!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u78	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u79	Well, tell them to get in bed. What is it?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u80	Excuse me. I suggest your attention to the second reading of Bill 2329 on amending certain legislative acts on strengthening fiscal discipline. It's a very immediate bill because we've been able to discuss budgetary discipline all week. We've been saying all week that this is the most important sphere of influence, first of all, to Parliament. And all week long, there's been a lot of complaints about government, about state-owned enterprises, about everyone. But what the budget committee is proposing today is a real step towards strengthening financial discipline, a step that can allow control authorities to control money thieves. I understand that personal matters are very important. But I also realize that the issue of financial discipline is also very important. Which is why I'm asking you, colleagues, to listen to me for just one minute. This bill included 70 rights, of which 50 were counted. And I thank all the colleagues who have taken part in the drafting of this bill. Under the transcript, I want to say that there's a question on the part of the Chief Legal Authority. In view of the fact that the President of Ukraine signed the Act of 11 June 2009 under No. 1508 on amending certain legislative acts on liability for corruption, it is now necessary to introduce appropriate regulatory editorials to the first article of the draft law on amendments to article 38 of the Code on Administrative Offences. I would like to point out that all the provisions of this bill are in line with the Ministry of Finance, the supervisory authorities and the committees. Once again, dear colleagues, I urge you not only to declare but to take real steps to support the fight against treasury, to support the fight that has always been called “treasure”. And so I ask you to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u81	Dear colleagues, I'd like to go back to work. We had to deal with the personnel issue at the end -- we'd all be in the hall then, I guess. I'm asking you, let's go in an article. I'm going to put to the vote the amendments to which the national MPs will be urged. The third amendment, is there insistence? None. Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u82	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Defense". The honourable national deputies, the honourable reporter, the key key to this amendment is to complete the word “may” in the first part of Article 38. It reads that administrative fees for breaches of financial legislation, budgetary legislation and legislation on the procurement of goods, jobs and services may be imposed no later than two months from the date of detection of the offence. I think that the word “must” should be inserted not later. So the binding term, the word “must” is a terminology difference, but a big difference in my view. I wanted you to agree that maybe I don't understand why you turned it down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u83	Dear Mr. Carmazin, this is a more methodological question, so it was not possible to impose a contraction two months later. That's why this amendment was introduced. So we're saying that after two months, this compression could be imposed. And that's because we didn't do any checks before, but after two months, we couldn't punish that official. Now we can do this, and that's why we're doing this.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u84	Honorary colleagues, at the same time, view the vote as Amendment No. 3 of Yuri Carmazin, Amendment 3 of Yuri Carmazin. Please all return to your jobs. [[11:36:33]] For the 15th. The decision is not taken. Amendment 9, People's Chamber of Staff. Is she insisting on it? No, it's not. Bellows? No, it's not. The wand, the 14th Amendment? No, it's not. Bellows, 15 repairs? No, it's not. The stick and Bellows are 18 and 19. Don't insist. 23rd? Don't insist. 24th, Bellows? Don't insist. 27th, Stick? Don't insist. The baton, 31st? I can't see. 34th? No, it's not. 43 revisions. Osaka and Pavlovenko, are you insisting on her? No, it's not. Yes. Yuri Carmazin, 49th Amendment, do you insist on it? No, it's not. He's making a mistake. Yuri Carmazin, 51st. Oh, no? Microphone. 51 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u85	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! In the 51st amendment, I ask the question that in article 3, paragraph 6, the words “send within two working days” should be replaced by the words “send immediately after this meeting”. That is, not delaying, giving people time for information. And I don't understand why we didn't do it. I just don't understand the logic of the committee, I want to understand. This is a protocol for the meeting of the organs of the company, which includes a representative of the State. So I'd like to hear the committee's opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u86	There is no principled opinion. It's a purely organizational question. Thus, this amendment can be counted immediately or within 2 days. I don't see any issues here.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u87	Dear colleagues, Amendment 51 Yuri Karmazin, the committee does not object to this amendment. That's why I put her to the vote. Amendment 51, please vote. [[11:39:12]] For-37 The decision is not taken. Let's keep going. Jury Carmazin's dressing, 62nd. Are you insisting on her? Oh, no?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u88	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u89	63? Oh, no? 66th? Yuri Carmazin, are you insisting on her? No, it's not. All other amendments are included. Dear colleagues! Please prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u90	Dear colleagues! To really pay attention to this bill is a practical, not a political project.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u91	I put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt in the second reading and generally as a law. draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on strengthening fiscal discipline]] [[Registration number 2329]] Please vote. Please vote. [[11:40:30.]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. I am voting for re-reading the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts, the second. [[on strengthening fiscal discipline]] [[Registration number 2329]] [[11:41:04]] For 205 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2009 is being announced for consideration. [[on regulatory policy issues relating to the payment of municipal services and participation in international peacekeeping operations]] Registration number 4707. The rapporteur is the deputy head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Lásko Oleg Valeriovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u92	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The Committee on Budget Questions prepared a draft Law on Registration number 4707 for consideration in the second reading. [[amending the 2009 Act on the State Budget of Ukraine]] In preparing the draft for second reading, proposals were made to the comparative table for the right of legislators, as well as for some bills to amend the State Budget 2009 Act, which are currently under consideration by the Committee on Budget Issues, namely: Bills Nos. 4044 and 4788, submitted by the National MP, Mr. Gordijenko and Mr. Cabinet of Ministers. [[concerning the exclusion of article 57 of the law]] Bill number 4509, submitted by the People's Deputy Stetsky. [[on the write-off of Naftogaz Ukraine, its enterprise and its subsidiaries]] Decision of the Committee on Budget Questions on Bill No. 4697 submitted by the People's Deputies of Lithuania by Volodymyr Mihajlovich and Derkaz Mikola Ivanovic on the support of the military and industrial complex. Bill number 4720 submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers on compensation for NAC “Naftogaz Ukraine”. Bill number 5057 issued by the Cabinet of Ministers. [[on the production of anniversary medals for the 65th anniversary of Victory in the Great Homeland War]] In addition, with the aim of allocating subsidies to local budgets to eliminate the effects of natural disasters, which occurred from July 23 to 27, 2008 and the removal of imbalances in the state budget, government proposals have been made to the comparative table. [[on the addition of a bill amending the law on excise duty rates on tobacco products in part of the increase in the ad valorem excise collection from 20 to 36 per cent, to the turnover of the product from 1 October 2009]] At the same time, with a view to ensuring a balance between the state budget and the adoption of the bill and its harmonization with the last edition of the State Budget 2009 Act, taking into account the relevant amendments adopted to the Act of 23 June and from 21 August to the veto of the President of Ukraine, it is proposed to make appropriate changes to the test of Article 1 and Appendices 1.3 to the State Budget 2009 Act. [[No. 1534]] First of all, the refinement of the summation of the income and expenditure of the state budget. As a result of a review of twenty suggestions made to the comparative table, only four proposals were not supported by the committee. The Committee on Budget Affairs adopted a decision: recommending to the Supreme Council the adoption of draft Law number 4707 on second reading and generally as a law according to the comparative table given in the Hall. The Chief Legal Authority commented on the need to clarify the wording of the new article 87 with a view to clarifying the list of entities whose pennies and penalties for tax, customs and monetary offences were cheated. It is suggested that this should be taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u93	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u94	It is suggested that this observation be taken into account by lawyers. And in accordance with Article 87, replace the words “undertakings and subsidiaries and defined” with the words “childhood companies” and “Ukratransgas” respectively. In addition, it is necessary to clarify the date of entry into force of the rule on increasing the ad valorem component of the excise congregation on tobacco products from November 1, 2009, instead of October 1, since today it is October. It is also proposed to complete code 1101420 in the title after the words “and” to be completed by the words “budget institutions”; after I say, after the words “and its implementation” to be completed by the words “budget institutions and”. [[Now, one second.]] Still, in article 34, paragraph 44, make a similar correction. Moreover, the committee was not supported by the proposal of the national deputy Davidenko. But given today's election of Ukraine's new foreign minister, taking into account the situation that Taras Crnovil said about the catastrophic financing of the foreign ministry's funding situation, it is proposed to partially take into account Amendment No. 9 of the people's deputy Davidenka, providing in the bill an increase in the expenditure of the General Fund for Foreign Affairs by 15 million dollars, including under code 140101010 for consumption costs of 4 million dollars of them – 1 million for utility and energy services, and under code 1401030 for consumption costs of 11 million dollars. The source of such expenditure is the increase in the revenue of the state budget from the excise collection of goods produced in Ukraine. In case of support for such a proposal, make appropriate changes to article 1 and Appendices one, three laws. So please support the adoption of the bill in second reading and in general as a law in accordance with the decision of the Committee on Budgets and taking into account the clarifications that have just been provided for the transcript. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u95	Dear colleagues, what are the warnings about amendments that have not been taken into account? Is it? Adam Martinyuk microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u96	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I address you. Vladimir Mikhailovich. I'm talking to you. We're just 10 laws that we've changed and renegotiated. Because they've accepted what Lyszko wants us to adopt the changes to the State Budget Act. He read the vast majority of his time in reading what he wanted to do in this law. I read what's not in the compare table. I read it from the voice. It's not just a document, it's not just a bill, it's the State Budget Act. Is it easy to manage a government budget or who? So today I propose to vote only on what's in the comparative table is the first. The other one. Never under any circumstances should amendments be made to the vote, especially economic bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u97	Please, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u98	I would like to point out, Vladimir Mikhailovich, that I have reached a decision of the committee. There's a table on everyone's hands where everything I've heard is said. For example, Davidenko’s amendment to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which we propose to support in the directions discussed and the amendment to clarify the name of the program. These are technical moments that don't change the essence of the law. Therefore, I would like to support the bill in the second reading and in general. Yes, I would like to point out, here is Mr. Arzwethyn's question, the cost of raising excise and tobacco is aimed at financing the disaster-related measures that took place from 23 to 27 July 2008 in a number of areas in Ukraine, this is amendment number 4. In Chernivka, in Vinnitsk, in Zakarpatski, in Ivano-Frankivsk, in Lvivsk, in Ternopilsk, in Chernivitek. That is, a large part of the cost, people today have huge debts to those who have suffered from disaster. We're trying, the government is offering to channel these funds to cover people's debts. So the government is proposing to channel the medals to veterans until the 65th anniversary of Victory in the Great Homeland War. So it's a social bill, in a large way, that solves many of the issues facing the budget today.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u99	Yuri Karmazin and then Anatoly Merkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u100	Yuri Carmazin. I have amendment number 19. In addition to everything else, I want to say that when I read the text of the bill, I want to say that I made the right committee and corrected my mistake, which in the table is the amendment of the 9th People's Deputy Davidenko, where it is given to our foreign representatives, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs an additional 15 million. It's very little for them, but, thank God, there's not much money left to go on right now. With regard to my proposal, I propose that chapter 2 of the final clauses be supplemented by the following paragraph: “The Cabinet of Ministers and the Committee of the Supreme Council on Budget Issues should ensure that the Supreme Council of Ukraine is given the mandatory remittance and that the National Deputies of Ukraine report on the monthly expenditure of the State Budget Reserve Fund and the calculation of the additional cost requirements in terms of the corresponding budget allocations. The point is that a systematic violation of the right of a national MP to receive a monthly report on the expenditure of the State Budget Reserve Fund is a requirement of obligation, as set out in article 24, section 4, of the Budget Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u101	Dear Yuri Anatolyovich, about the 19th amendment. This question is addressed in articles 24 and 59 of the Budget Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u102	Well, it's not working out. It's bad. Let's make it happen. But the law already requires the Cabinet of Ministers to inform the Supreme Council of the expenditure.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u103	Alexander Pecklushenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u104	I have two questions. One to Vladimir Mikhailovich and colleagues. Vladimir Mihajlovich, you have stated that 20 numbers will be fully adopted by the Social Standards Act. This is a matter for budget change. Are we gonna go back to changing our budget every day? This is a serious integrated approach. So please. Let's not tear it up. Second. Merkovsky Anatoly Ivanovich said 24 hours ago that the money for the bridges would be in Law 4707. Please answer for your words. Maybe I have the wrong glasses, the wrong one. Where are the firewalls? If you're lying, then the decent people are resigning.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u105	Please, Alexander, Oleg Lazko, and then Anatoly Merkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u106	Honourable Alexander Mikolaiovich is under your authority and according to the authority of the national deputy Derkač Mikli Ivanovich, a bill on changes to the state budget has been registered in the Supreme Council. [[on financing the construction of bridges through Dnipro in Zaporozhye]] Let's hold a meeting of the Budget Committee. Let's gather the quorum. Make sure your factions are present. We'll support it there and consider the bill and introduce its consideration of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u107	I've already announced. Anatoly Merkowski. Dear colleagues, are we discussing a bill or amendments? Well, here's the fix. What an adjustment you've made, you say. Please, Anatoly Merkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u108	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The government fully supports the draft legislation prepared by the Committee on Budget Issues, taking into account the additions made by Oleg Valeriovich Ljasko. In addition, I would like to say that this bill will provide an opportunity to solve the major problems that have arisen in past calculations in Western Ukraine, as well as to solve a number of problems in the financial provision of emergency gas bills. I would also like to say about the position on the bridge in Zaporozhye. So, really, there's an appropriate bill, and we're ready for him at the Committee on Budget Affairs to consider and make the right decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u109	Valerius Suškević, then Vyezivsky and we will be determined. I'd like the deputies to come into the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u110	Thank you. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, as a national deputy, and as head of the committee, I ask, at least sometimes, to give me my word. I never have. I raise my hand, you never give me your word. I beg you, I've held my hand before Adam Ivanovich, they won't give me a word. I'm asking you, Your Honor, and I'm paying attention to what the National MP Lazko said. This bill has a standard that applies to the 65th anniversary of the Great Victory. We have three weeks until the 65th anniversary of the liberation of Ukraine, where we have the money for the medal for our veterans, the disabled. I'm asking you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u111	The national deputy of Vyezovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, of course, that the drafting of this bill and its passing in the Supreme Council once again confirms that our government is acting very chaoticly. When we say that we have to be an investment-attractive state, then the acceptance of taxes or excises and all that is involved should be sustained according to current legislation. And six months before the adoption of such normative documents, entrepreneurs would have to prepare for it. It's not just a signal to the tobacco industry, it's a signal to all the other businesses that operate in Ukraine, and to the investors who want to come in here. And they'll say we're going to join a state where tomorrow they're going to completely play the rules of the game. And that means that such chaotic things of government simply do not fit in with the Supreme Council. Because at the moment, we hear that the road to hell is paved with good intentions. Because we're saying, "Today we want to get extra money into the budget." That's how we block investments in Ukraine, and that's what that means.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u113	Dear colleagues, we have completed our consideration of the matter. With regard to Alexander Pecklusenko's proposal for the Zaporozhye Bridge Bill, we have already promised, let's do this. 20 numbers we have the next plenary meeting, we're going to have a look at the committee or we're going to have a look at it. No, so let's now make the decision to take a stand for the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, we need to look into it. Everyone made a promise. If that is the case, then we will find funds for natural disasters. Therefore, honourable colleagues, please prepare for the vote. An acceptance committee proposal shall be put to the vote. Oleg Easy, you can go vote better too. On the adoption of the second reading and generally as a bill of the Law amending the Law of Ukraine, “On the State Budget of Ukraine 2009 with the refinements that have been made. Please vote. I said, with the refinements that have been said. [[11:58:00]] For 219 The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u114	We're not there, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, I ask you, I will vote on the return to this bill, on the return to the draft law. May I have your attention, please? I'm voting for a return to the draft law. [[Registration number 4707]] Please vote. [[11:58:38]] For 225 I'm voting for a re-read of the draft law. [[Registration number 4707]] Well, let's make a decision, if it comes to 65 years of age, honourable colleagues, at least that. I'm betting on the second one again. Please vote. To the others again. [[11:59:08]] For 226 Decision taken. () [[Applause]] Peter Stepanovich Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u116	Thank you. Communist faction, head of the Ukrainian Veterans' Council. Dear Vladimir Mikhajlovich, we are now moving on to a new chapter, “To make decisions on the issues under discussion”. I would very much like to ask you first in this chapter to put in place a decision of the Supreme Council 4710 concerning the Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations that were held on June 3, 2009. The point is that two weeks left before the anniversary of the liberation of Ukraine. Two weeks later, the Cabinet of Ministers has to report on the implementation of these recommendations, and we have not yet accepted them. Every day, I get a call from the heads of the veteran district councils, and they ask me, how can it be that four months don't accept recommendations on such an important issue? I ask you to start this section by considering draft regulation 4710. It'll take three minutes for her to be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u117	Dear colleagues, we have agreed with you that we will work without interruption and as soon as we consider the issue, we will move on to the “Variance”. Would you please not object to the draft ruling to be considered now, 4710? You don't? None. The draft Parliamentary Hearing Recommendation on Social, Medical and Retirement Insurance for War Veterans and the 65th anniversary of Victory in the Great Homeland War 1941-1945 is announced for consideration. The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, Suškevich Valeriy Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u118	Dear colleagues, April 17th of this year. In accordance with the resolution of 17 April 3, Parliamentary hearings were held on the social, medical, pension security of war veterans and the celebration of the 65th anniversary of the Victory in the Great Homeland War. A total of 420 people attended these hearings. Over 300 veterans of the Great Homeland War took part in these hearings. 33 regional and almost 100 regional organizations, social organizations of war veterans, took part in the draft decree on parliamentary hearings. People’s deputies, many institutions of state, were also accepted. And I would like to ask that we are today, I think, too late, but still take it two weeks before our Jubilee date -- the liberation of Ukraine, the 65th anniversary of the liberation of Ukraine from German-Fashistic invaders -- to make that decision. This decision took into account all aspects related to issues related to the social protection of disabled persons and war veterans. In particular, recommendations are made to the government to take measures to increase the level of provision of war veterans by means of sanitary treatment, to improve the provision of car insurance to disabled persons, to properly finance health care facilities, and to provide sanitation, and so on. Much of this regulation applies to the following year and can be taken into account by the government, Parliament, in the draft state budget. And that's extremely important. I mean, practically, if after this year, the draft regulation and this regulation will not have a significant impact on the spending of the state budget and the local budgets this year. The main points apply mainly to the State Budget Act next year. I also want to say that the recommendations do not have any political coloring. They are aimed exclusively at supporting war veterans and disabled people, our parents, our grandfathers, who courageously defended the Fatherland to which we are obliged by their building of this Ukrainian state. I would like to draw attention to the recommendations of the General Legal Office, where the second draft of the ruling refers to changing and supplementing the words “for the executive authorities”. Since there are government and government institutions, this will be more accurate and will be in full compliance with the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers as the central authority. These are suggestions to change this paragraph and to write “for the executive authorities” in paragraph 2 of this regulation. And another suggestion is that we delayed the decision objectively, unfortunately, and it stated that we should report and receive information from government institutions by 1 November of this year after the project, following this decision. Unfortunately, by November 1st, this will virtually be no longer the reality of this report. So it's proposed that we put the government's progress report on the implementation of the decision we're going to be taking today by 1 January 2010. Please support this proposal and vote on this determination on the basis, and on the whole, taking into account the proposals that we have put forward. Dear colleagues, I hope that regardless of our political preferences, we will support our veterans and war invalids, the people who are waiting for us today, in an unforgivable time to support the Jubilee of the Great Victory in the Homeland War. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u119	Thank you, Valery Mikhailovich. Any questions for the reporter? Is it? Please sign up. Cibenko Peter Stepanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u120	Thank you. Communist faction, head of the Ukrainian Veterans' Council, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I have more than a question, but a wish. Indeed, the document has been handled seriously. We've taken into account, practically all the suggestions that have been, and he deserves to be accepted on the basis, but also on the whole. But I have one proposition, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I am addressing you and my colleagues. What do I mean? On page 10 of the recommendation, the following rule is written: Pay attention to the effectiveness of the work of the State Committee on Veterans and consider strengthening its governing body. I'd like to ask you and your colleague to take this down. I'm Motivating two moments. First of all, since the decision was taken to the Supreme Council, the committee's leadership has indeed been strengthened, because the first deputy, Cesorsky Mikolayovich, has been nominated. Indeed, they have been strengthened. And secondly, it would be wrong to assume responsibility for. So I'm asking you, once again, to withdraw this norm and vote on this document as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u121	Dear colleagues, there's an offer for one of our colleagues. I personally believe that the work of the State Committee is worthwhile and needs to be improved by the efficiency of the work. I am convinced of this because I am personally like the head of the committee, and with the feedback of veterans, the disabled of the war, including Afghans, on the basis that, for today, the work of the State Committee needs to improve its effectiveness. I think this is where we have to define the hall and decide. But I think that, as of today, in a situation where we need to improve our work with regard to veterans, war invalids, I think this is absolutely appropriate in this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u122	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u123	Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". I thank you very much for preparing me for reporting on this law. I'm very sorry that sounds like, you know, ambiguity. We just failed to finance the production of the anniversary medal until the 65th anniversary of the Great Homeland War. In one voice, they failed. And now in the hearings, we record: we provide the government with changes and funding. It's written down. So let's at least partially go back, we'll partially adopt the law that was passed. And so, in words, we love veterans, we love everything, and we actually took and gave zero votes. I'm talking to these guys. And I suggest: let's rule out this text anyway, even though Valery Mikhailovich, and yours is an amendment like this. This is the fifth page, written: “by the national deputies of Ukraine Suškević and Cibenko submitted to the Supreme Council a draft Law on Change”, and so on. If we're going to list all the draft laws that have been introduced, it's probably not correct.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u124	I don't deny it. But I would like to support you, Yuri Anatoliyovich, in the situation concerning the medal of the Great Victory. You know, there's really two weeks left, and we were hoping that the changes to the state budget, which relates to the financing of the Jubilee Medal, which, by the way, has been released by all the countries of the former Soviet Union that participated in the Great Homeland War, we are the only country that can lose this anniversary medal. To be honest, I was sad to see that we did not accept this standard of amendments to the State Budget Act. I urge you to return immediately and put the leadership of the Supreme Council on the agenda and accept it immediately before the date of the liberation of Ukraine, the 65-year-old Ukrainian liberation, and vote on these changes to the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u125	National MP Gordienko refers the right to the question of Cibenko Petra Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u126	Thank you. Dear colleagues, respectable Vladimir Mikhailovich and those who are concerned about the medal - making situation! Believe me, I'm no less concerned, and Valery Mikhailovich knows that I supported this idea at the committee meeting. But according to the medals, we've hidden a lot of other things, so let's still be honest about these issues. And I am absolutely convinced that this question will be taken care of and that the problem will be solved. But I would like to go back to my proposal for leadership of the State Committee on Veterans. Valeriy Mikhailovich, you know that I've worked with the previous leadership, I've worked very closely with this leadership, and I think it works no worse. I don't want to think that some of our colleagues are concerned that the State Committee on Veterans is headed by the Hero of the Soviet Union, the internationalist soldier, Platonos Igor Mikolaiovich. If you don't like it, I'm sorry, we were on different sides of the barricade. I'd still like to take this decision into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u127	Thank you, Peter Stepanovich. You know, I'd like to see everything that touches the specific provisions of the ruling touch on the court of law. The petitions to the state labour committee and to the celebration of the anniversary of the withdrawal of troops from Afghanistan were very serious on the part of Afghan veterans and in preparation for the 65-year-olds of the great victory. These claims are also at the request of the people who referred to this point, and this rule was actually written down. Once again, I think we can vote on this rule here, but I think the government today needs to pay attention to the work of the State Committee and improve its work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u128	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Is there a need to discuss? Doesn't anyone insist? Thank you. Please sit down, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, the committee has proposed a draft decision to approve the recommendations. Peter Stepanovich Cibenko proposed to remove one point from the recommendation, so I would have such an offer. I apologize, and Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyevich proposed the deletion of one paragraph. Then I'll have a proposal so that before we vote the verdict, let's take the basis of the recommendation and consider the proposal of our fellow members of the People's Deputies, Karmazin, and the National Deputy of Cibenko. Is there any objection? Then I am voting for approval on the basis of parliamentary hearing recommendations on the theme “Social, Medical and Retirement Security of War Veterans” and “Determining the 65th anniversary of Victory in the Great Homeland War”. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:13:46]] For 359 Decision taken. Now please, Peter Stepanovich, rephrase your proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u129	Thank you. On page 10 of the recommendation, there is a standard that deals with strengthening the leadership of the State Committee on Veterans. At the parliamentary hearings, I believe that it has been reported throughout the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in the person of several ministries, and that it is considered or assigned that sentence to be responsible for the implementation of current legislation in the field of social, pension and medical protection of veterans, only to rely on the State Committee on Veterans will not be entirely correct. Moreover, today’s board of directors of the State Committee on Veterans is no worse. So I propose that this rule be removed from the recommendation of parliamentary hearings. And take full advantage of this rule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u130	Dear colleagues! There is a proposal to remove the rule that applies to strengthening the leadership of the State Committee on Veterans. Please, head of the committee, national deputy Suškević's word.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u131	I would like to point out that Peter Stepanovovich did not read the entire standard of determination. “To pay attention to the inefficiency of the work of the State Committee”, the first part, and the second part, “and strengthening leadership” respectively. Because there is a situation, there is a claim to efficiency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u132	The proposal made by the national representative of Zybenko is based on a vote. Please identify yourself. [[12:15:53]] For-170. The decision is not taken. The offer is not supported. Please offer Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin. Please announce.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u133	I asked Yuri Karmazin, honourable national MPs, on a sheet of the third paragraph, where the phrase “the national deputies of Ukraine Suškević and Cibenk submitted to the Supreme Council a draft Act amending the law on the social protection of war children, which provides for the right of children to permanent medical care in the hospitals of war veterans”, except for this paragraph. Because of what? Because it's just a pyar of a separate bill, that's all. These bills have been introduced by half a hundred, and then they must be taken into account. In view of the fact that this is the standard of recommendation, the rule of regulation that is to be printed, we cannot refer to a project that is not yet accepted, or we must then refer to many other projects. I thank the National Deputy Suskevitch that he believes, on behalf of the Committee, that yes, these sentences really need to be removed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u134	The proposal of the People’s Deputy Karmazin is based on a vote. I'd like to make a statement. Yeah, yeah, yeah. [[12:17:23]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. So we voted in favour of the people's deputies who were before the recommendation. Now, with your permission, I'm going to place the text of a recommendation that is accepted as a basis. Please be sure. [[12:17:56]] For 358 Recommendations accepted. And I put to the vote the draft Supreme Council Resolution on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on Social, Medical and Retirement Security for War veterans and the 65th anniversary of Victory in the Great Homeland War. [[No.4710]] I'd like to make a statement. [[12:18:30.]] For 371 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we must now move on to the consideration of the proposal by the President of Ukraine to the Ukrainian Budget Code. And two factions have now requested a break to reconcile their positions before considering the issue: the faction "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" and the faction of BUTT. Will you make a statement or take a break? A break of 30 minutes to 12 hours is announced for 50 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u135	Dear colleagues, we continue our morning plenary session. The two factions, "The Timoshenko Block" and "Our Ukraine-People's Self-Defense", requested a 30-minute recess to determine positions before considering the next issue of the agenda. From the faction “Blanket of Yulia Timoshenko” is the national deputy Lasko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u136	Thank you. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! Just before the break, you and I failed a very important bill. This is a bill under registration number 4707 amending the state budget. We want the citizens of Ukraine to know why the Supreme Council has not voted today. This bill, in particular, provides for the financing of production for veterans of the Great Homeland War medals until the 65th anniversary of Victory in the Great Homeland War. And here many spoke about how they cared about veterans. All the countries of the former Soviet Union made their veterans medals. The only country is Ukraine, which has not made these medals. Here it is suggested that a decision be made to recommend that the government find money for these medals. So the government introduced a bill to make changes to the budget where the funds are allocated. And the Supreme Council doesn't vote for it. It's a Pharisee. That's what veterans do, and in fact, when it comes to voting for a bill, most people don't vote. We're offering to raise excise duties on tobacco. In January-September 2009, the U.S. state budget for the Excise Assembly received 6 billion dollars from tobacco. During a similar period last year, the State budget received just over 2 billion dollars. So there's a way to keep lifting these excises. This money is being directed, especially by the government, to direct these funds to finance measures related to the elimination of the effects of the disaster that occurred in 2008 in a number of areas of the country. To this day, some of those affected by the disaster cannot enter the house because they are not built, they are not repaired. Or repaired bridges, roads, but not paid for. The government proposes that the problem be resolved and that nearly 300 million dollars be directed towards financing measures related to the elimination of the consequences of the disaster in the western areas of Ukraine, the central areas of Ukraine. And some members of the Supreme Council do not vote in favour of this law and thus do not allow people to get the money they need. Similarly, the government proposes to address the issue of Naftogazu activities in order to compensate for the difference in prices that gas is bought and supplied to the population so as not to raise prices for gas for people, so that people can pay the gas at the price that is today, not double or triple the price. The government is finding possibilities -- almost 5.5 billion dollars is being offered.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u137	Oleg Valeriyovich, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u138	Nearly 5.5 billion dollars to compensate for these prices. And unfortunately, MPs don't vote for this bill. Who do you care about then, sitting here? Neither the people nor the citizens of Ukraine who need your protection, which these poor people today need your support, you don't vote for them, you live by the principle: the worse for the people, the worse for the country, the better for you. But these are miscalculations and this is a wrong principle. For if the land is bad, when it is bad for the people, it will be bad for you too, for no one is going to draw money from it, for no one will pay taxes, nor will you get wages, bribes, and all other things. Therefore, we call for a return to the 4707 draft bill, to vote on it and to bring it to order those issues that are now very urgent for the state budget of Ukraine. We, Alexander Volodymyrovich, urge you to reconsider this matter. These are the questions that need to be addressed urgently, the questions that await millions of people who are poor, poor, and need our support today. Let's give this support, let's finally remember that we are with you people's deputies of Ukraine, and our task, first of all, is to take care of the citizens, the people of Ukraine, and then only about corporate interests, about our own interests. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u139	Oleg Valeriyovich, I've come to realize that the essence of the decisions that were made during the break is the decision that was made for the second reading, to be considered as soon as possible. So you want to do it now? Right now, back to the hearing? [[B in m in s a l in]] So speed up the general discussion on the committee in order to get back to the second reading? I think you're going to ask the committee to work effectively on this issue. The faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Yuri Carmazin, your reasons for interruption and decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u140	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". The "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" faction believes that the failure now by one vote of amendment to the 2009 Act of the State Budget of Ukraine shows that the four-month blockade of the Supreme Council of Ukraine was a purely political action. [[225 votes, unfortunately, were not enough for one vote]] I want all Ukrainian citizens to know that. Because everyone's yelling, "Army's dying!" And now of the 700 million that is additionally reported, we're predicting funding of 202 million for applied research in the military defense of the state. This is the 13th Amendment. You don't need it. We'll see. You say, “Science and health care is dying!” I point out that the law now includes the renovation of the facilities of the National Institute of Phtysiatrics and Pulmonology of Janovsky’s name. I would like to point out that the committee was asked to consider for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, for the embassies of Ukraine to predict 15 million abroad. And to the end. We want residents who live in the city of Chernivci, who have not been allocated 9,000 830,000 dollars, to the Winnitz region. 9 million 800,000 30 dollars; the Winnitz region – 5 million 92 thousand dollars; the Zacarpathian region – 9 thousand 949; the Ivano-Frankiv region – 64 million 323 thousand dollars; the Lviv region – 34 million 350,000 dollars; the Ternopil region – 200,000 dollars; the Chernivitz region – 31 million 886 dollars. These are the funds provided by the State budget grant to local budgets for the elimination of the consequences of the natural disaster, which took place from 23 to 27 July 2008. And we're entering the winter! And imagine how people live in these areas today. So our two factions of the coalition say that, Your Honor, you say that you are in opposition, even though there is no such concept in the Constitution, there is a majority and a minority, so please don't be in opposition to your own people, don't harm your own people, please. These are exactly the social standards that you and your leader are used to talking about. But I do realize that some of the friends who have up to 200 billion in the social welfare fund can be yelled at today. No, it's 6 percent each. I understand that. But our faction requires the adoption of this law in short form and stresses.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u141	Please sit down, Yuri Anatolyevich. Dear colleagues, the factions expressed positions for which they took a break. We can appreciate, say, the constructiveness of the approach during the break. And now we've got time, we've finished the possibility of, the resources of time to consider the issues of order. I'm announcing a recording on the Raz. Pavlovsky Andry Mikhailovich, please. Pavlovsky Andry Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u142	Dear colleagues, distinguished viewers! Andrew Pavlovski, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. I wanted to address you because the last few days we have witnessed that, when an important bill such as the State Budget for the next year, 2010, which is actually an anti-crisis, the main anti-crisis program for the next year, we have not seen a serious discussion of this document. Once again, Schuster’s re-election show continued. Once again, we heard this electoral nightmare, instead of offering specific proposals to the government budget, primarily to the revenue section. Once again, social idiocy continues when future presidential candidates play in a fair that offers more to our voters, which are the most space-based social standards to be offered. But, well, let's tell people the truth that at a time of crisis, social standards have to match the real state of the economy. And no country in the world has raised strong social standards. On the contrary, for example, the Baltic countries have reduced their minimum pensions and wages by 20-30 percent. But this does not mean that we should not worry about the more vulnerable people who need the most help. But this should be done purposefully, just as the government of Julia Tymoshenko proposes to do everything to prevent at least the social standards that are now being allowed to be reduced to the moment. In particular, it is proposed to support those most in need of this support, namely pensioners, disabled persons, students and the 2010 budget, at least for example, the budget, teachers, will be increased by January 1. [[The word "Daniel" tells me]] Since January 1, teachers' support will be increased, they will receive an increase of 22.5 per cent in salary, and another 10 per cent in the course of the year. So teachers get an increased salary next year by 32.5 percent. Librarians will receive an increase of 50 percent from November 1st. For the first time in these years of independence, the State Budget provides for an allowance for so - called workers.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u143	The People’s Deputy Danilov refers the right to speak to the national deputy of Paul. Please, come in.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u144	Thank you. And I want to continue that, for the first time in years of independence, there's an anticipated allowance for medical work. This will allow a difficult time to support our doctors, and depending on their qualifications, they will be able to receive an allowance of between 10 percent and 30 percent. The scholarship will be raised to 674. And the minimum wage next year is going to be 778 dollars. I want pensioners to hear first of all the less protected types of pensioners who are now receiving less than 1,000 dollars. It is the government’s purpose to provide them with financial assistance for the purchase of medicines and essentials. At the same time, the same budget, which might be interesting for our audiences, provides for a reduction in wages for high-income workers, ministers, other high-level government officials, national deputies. And I would like to ask you, my dear fellows, not to buy for a cheap populist pianist because the supposed rise in social standards is expected by our colleagues from the Party of the Regions, from the “For Ukraine” group, and it will go away proportionally. Those who receive a minimum pension will receive a few tens of dollars and those who are rich will receive even more. The rich will become richer. The national deputy’s salary will increase from 14 to 30,000. This is what you do for yourself, not for the common people. I don't think we should speculate on that, because our people are already trained. Let's be honest about what the real situation is, what we can do about it. Both Julia Timoshenko’s government and our bloc have repeatedly proposed that we join together, work together for the country. And the people in the election will determine who the Gehtman, who the president wants. But the interests of the state, the stability of the state, must be above all. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u145	The national deputy Sidelnik is delegating the right to speak to the national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u146	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! I asked John Ivanovich for his word simply because the question that our faction had raised in July was not solved by proposing a draft decree that was approved by the Committee on Culture and Spirituality and that was the introduction of a moratorium on the eviction of creative communities. The project proposes to stop the adoption of decisions by executive authorities and local self-government authorities and to stop the implementation of earlier decisions on the eviction of creative associations and public organizations from their public and municipal premises and the approval of the relevant law. Perhaps we could settle this issue by law, but in due course we made a decree prohibiting the eviction and destruction of our publications and publications. Now we need to protect those creative communities that have been working for centuries, that focus on the intellectual powers of nationals so that by our determination we can stop the crime that is being committed especially in Kiev under the power of a prominent political figure in Chernewsky. Today, a chorus band and a chorus society headed by Professor Audiewsky are evicted from the premises. Today, they are being thrown out of the street in the Reuters Community of National Masters, who has already lost all their objects because of the looting policy, all their units, which were previously supplied to all markets in Europe, from potter’s products to embroidery. Today our markets are populated, whether they're flooded with Chinese products, forgeries, it's not authentic national products, where machines are embroidered by any embroidery, whether it's hutzulian or any other. Today, the composers' community is loaded. And I would like to ask you, Alexander Volodymyrovich, that your faction of the next plenary session should take this decision. Why should we do so? Because the bailiffs are already coming and they say, "Get out." We are experiencing a humanitarian crisis, and we know that if we do not stop this vandalism, which lasts not only on land theft but also on those objects that have even been supported by the Soviet authorities from understanding that only by culture can the nation have a perspective. And that's why I think you should consider my speech as a parliamentary address. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u147	Thank you, Paul Mikhailovich. National MP Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u148	Vladimir Yavorowski. Dear voters, the honorable remains of the national deputies in the hall. It seems to me that the silent political schizophrenia, the political schizophrenia that has taken over Ukraine today, is slowly moving from a quiet phase to a more active phase. Because, in fact, today in a period of such a major crisis, such an important situation, today we actually had no parliament for a long time, and we don't actually have it, and if we do, it's so dual that these deputies are chosen from different states, not from different regions of Ukraine. Some seem to want the good of their people, and in fact they are preparing a colossal pit for Ukraine, while others seem to be hurting for the same Ukraine, fighting among themselves. Because of this, obviously, someone really wants to have no government, because the President is actually no longer here today, he's getting his term, he's getting someone else there, he's rewarding and he's making some trips, but the President's hand, like that, today Ukraine doesn't feel at all. I've said this before, as long as we're here, while we're trying to beat each other, at this time, a team of young expropriators, call them whatever you want, the city of Kiev is actually destroying the whole of Kiev today. I want to pay attention to the public, to the Chinese in the first place, and not just to the Chinese, because Kiev is the acquisition of Ukraine. You probably don't know what they're actually trying to sell out the entire Ukrainian cultural center. I can only tell you what this is about: it's the headquarters; it's the House of Scientists that is in Kiev today; the Library of the Forest of Ukraine; it's Children's Garden No 171; it's the newspaper "Kristátík"; it's the Dnipro; it's the Bookshop "Planeta". This is a huge number of rooms that are being quietly put on sale today to supposedly patch up the holes that are in the city budget today. But do we know that these holes will not be covered, and where will the money go? In the young pockets of the eyes. No one seems to doubt us. And the second question. Since Silencen and I have offered about ten minutes of culture here, I want to say that the Kirovograd Theatre, a unique theater of Ukrainian Corifies that literally fell there, was visited by the Prime Minister. [[I invited her.]] The government has found 14.5 million to repair, repair, and next year, 30 million. But the local authorities cannot find a few thousand bracelets to provide documentation and start to master these funds. I'm going from this rostrum to the leadership of this area: decide not to take this disgrace upon yourself. Ladies and gentlemen, we can.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u149	The national parliament of the Hare hands over the right to speak, the national deputy of Arjevetina, who will also use his rules. Six minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u150	Thank you. Stanislaw Arzvetin, “For Ukraine!” group, Secretary of the Council of Ukrainian Cossacks to the President of Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! Dear Cossacks-Brothers, a few days later, on October 14th, we all celebrate the Holy Sacrament of the Holy Virgin and the Day of Ukrainian Cossacks. Cossacking has always been the embodiment of the free and unaccelerated spirit of the great nation, a symbol of martial arts in the sacrificial struggle for freedom, for the homeland, and for the fatherly faith. From the 18th century onward, Cossacks have played a significant role in the social and political life of the Ukrainian people. This is particularly evident from the historical events of the national-liberal contests of the XI-15th century, which became the liberating war of the Ukrainian people under the hetman of the Ukraine of Bogdan Hmelnick. The most valuable example for us was the Cossacks of the State of Gethman. And the first in Europe is the democratic Constitution of Philip the Eagle. Today, mentioning the names of the famous Gehtmans, Dmitr Vishnevetsky, Peter Sagaidak, Bogdan Hmelnick, John Wigowski, Peter Dorosenko, John Mazepa, Philip Orlik, Peter Kalnishewsky, and many other prominent Cossacks. I want us to feel like their heirs in the creation of a modern, prosperous, respected state in the world. For Ukraine, 2009 has become a particularly busy Cossack. In support of the President's decrees, the Cossacks community this year celebrated 300 years of events related to the political and military speech by the German of Ukraine, John Mazepa, and the formation of the Ukrainian-Swedish Union. In the 350th anniversary of the victory of the army under the leadership of the German of Ukraine, John Vygowski, in the Battle of Conotopus. The 360th anniversary of the creation of the Ukrainian Cossack State. Thanks to the personal participation of the President of Ukraine, Viktor Andrievich Yushchenka, the Goat’s famous victories under Konotap, Poltava, Baturin were honored. Today, the Hehtman capitals and Zaporezka Sich are being rebuilt. The Palace of Gehtman Cyril Razumovski has been restored and many more Cossacks have been raised that have magnified our state. As part of the campaign for Ukrainian Cossacks Day, the President of Ukraine will open the newly restored Zaporzik Sich on the island of Hortica and the Hehtman capital in Chigirina. This year, the Ukrainian Cossacks Council of the President of Ukraine, together with four ministries, launched a multi-year National Patriotic Education Program for Children and Youth, which is based on the best achievements of Cossack's teaching and psychology, involving some 6,000 young people. The program produced an extremely broad positive resonance in the youth environment. The existence in Ukraine of a broad social Cossack movement, its diversity, the characteristics of Cossack organizations, its scope and specificities require the adoption of a law that defines the only legal, social, economic, organizational principles for the creation and functioning of Cossack organizations in Ukraine, the forms and directions of their activities, and the principles and ways of their interaction with the authorities, the associations of citizens. The adoption of such a Law on Cossacks will be of great social and political importance, as it will contribute to: the consolidation of Ukrainian society, the implementation of the national capacity of Ukrainian Cossacks, the integration of Cossacks around the idea of restoring Ukrainian Cossacks, the historical traditions of the Ukrainian people, the only standards for educating young people and strengthening Ukraine's statehood. I call on all national deputies to support the draft Ukrainian Law on the Principles for the Reconstruction and Development of Ukrainian Cossacks, which will be submitted to the fifth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, uglyly by the President of Ukraine, Viktor Yushchenko, as soon as possible. And the public is urged to exercise national control over the progress of its support by the political forces here in the Supreme Council. We believe that every Ukrainian has a direct bearing on the Cossacks. Thus, the adoption of such a law will be the best gift of modern - day Cossack organizations. So let us all go day by day, step by step with our daily specific actions, as described in the State Hymn of Ukraine, show that we are brothers of the Cossack family and we will have a completely different state. With the celebration of you, Cossacks-Brothers! Glory to Ukraine! Praise the Ukrainian Cossacks!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u151	Kulczynski Mikola Georgievicz, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u152	Deputies! Dear citizens of Ukraine! Today, the oppression in Ukrainian society is evident in certain political circles of anti - Ukrainian sentiments. It is the First Deputy Prime Minister of Turkey who wants to eliminate the issue of the "Fleet of Ukraine" -- a newspaper that is not the only one in Crimea against the aggressive imperial Russian press, which otherwise cannot be called black hundredths. It is that some authorities in the east of Ukraine are essentially banned from the “History of Ukraine” B.D. Napkin. The Royal Bolshevik imperial authorities in Ukraine have done their utmost to transform Ukrainians into humble Johns, with no historical memory, no language, no culture, no churches, and the textbook shows that Ukrainians have risen up all the time. They stood up and fought for their freedom, their independence, their culture, their language, their church, their high ethical values. And Ukrainians have something to be proud of. There is something to raise your children. No, such a textbook is not acceptable to children because they will grow up and ask whose parents we are the children for whom we are confined. They're asking, where's our property? And why is our Ukrainian house so ragged, and who is it? So some members of the parliamentary commission of inquiry on the issue of President Yushchenk's poisoning instead of honestly investigating all the poisoning conditions, are developing a large-scale provocation, launching false claims into society that there was no poisoning, and it's falsified, you see, by the U.S. services. The provocation is exposed and refuted as the Attorney General's Office and such a respected edition as “Ukrainian Truth”. The purpose of provocation and the same as many others since the election of Victor Yushchenk by the President is to lie, to shame society, because the President has openly and firmly embarked on the restoration of historical truth, the Ukrainian spiritual and cultural revival, realizing that only with a patriotic and culturally developed citizen can success be achieved both in the economy and in the work of the State machinery and in the fight against corruption. But someone wants to, someone wants to take down the most successful ministers, because they see Ukrainian patriots, I mean Minister of Culture and Minister of Education of Vakarczuk. And in one row with these phenomena is the stubborn reluctance of Poltava’s city head, the superintendent of BUTU, to erect a monument to the great hetman of Ukraine, John Mazepi. I am officially addressing Yulia Volodymyrovna Timoshenko, forcing the execution of the Poltavian authorities, my one-party party, to comply with the President's Order in connection with the 300th anniversary of the hetman John Mazepa's military-political statement and the military-political union. This is a totally Ukrainianophobic position of not recognizing the heroes of Ukraine, the people who gave their lives for it, because the hemman gave his life for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u153	National Deputy Shamanov, please. The national deputy Shamanov is transferring the right to speak to the national deputy Skoubenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u154	Dear national MPs, distinguished radio listeners! I want to draw your attention to the two very important problems that we have today in Ukraine. It is unfortunate that the number of deputies is small, but the problem I am raising is likely to be quite relevant at the next plenary meeting. We have a very disturbing situation with our Ukrainian nuclear power plants. Few people know that the next year is the 30-year period of operation of these power plants. For the first time in Ukraine, we will face what we need in 2010, we will have to pull out of operation the first block of the Rowena Nuclear Power Plant, in 2011 – the second block, in 2012 – the third block. The 30-year era, so to speak, has ended with cheap nuclear power. What has been done to date in our country on this issue? Nothing. I will say that we had a commission for 20 years, the National Commission for Radiation Protection of the People of Ukraine. Thank you to all of us for revitalizing her work, enacting the relevant law, and having adopted a decision of the Supreme Council to approve the provisions of this commission. I believe that the Commission, which today must deal fully with this issue and protect the Ukrainian population from any official use of either extension or any way of sweeping the situation with these nuclear power plants. I'll say the situation is that we can remember Chernobyl a little more often with you since January. I wouldn't want that to happen. That's the first part of my speech. Part two. I will say that the destruction of the land of our reserve fund is ongoing. For example, the Hersonian District Council decided to address the Head of Environmental Affairs of the Hersonian Region to agree, think only 4,000 acres [4,000 ha] of Black Sea Coast, the Yagorlyk Kut, so-called after leaving the war zone, to sell the village council immediately. The village council is quick to agree, and the entire district council, with the exception of the UBUT deputies, is quick to vote for the 4,000,600 hectares. All of this is done by the head of the Silenkov and the head of the district council in order to clear the 4,000 acres [4,000 ha] under noise. [[You know how much it's worth!]] I believe that the removal of the Chief of the Environment Office from this and the transfer of responsibility to a deputy who has been convicted in the past and taken into custody only for one purpose, and he has been assigned to perform for the purpose of signing this agreement today, and 4,000 and 600 hectares of land that goes from Hersonian to Crimea has fled immediately into private use and has ceased to exist. [[Imagine]] And that's contrary to what we are.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u155	The People’s Deputy of Paris hands over the right to speak to the national deputy of Vyezovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u156	National Deputy Volodymyr Vizevski, “For Ukraine!”, “Our Ukraine”. Honourable Ukrainians, patriot MPs are calling on Parliament and the government to take urgent steps to support the President's proposals to ensure the country's security. The actions of the government and the Supreme Council this year left Ukraine not only without a minister of defense but also without the proper provision of the army. Budgets are not even enough to maintain parts and units, let alone combat training, purchase, or repair weapons. Under conditions where open threats from aggressive neighbours are being heard at the address of Ukraine, the policy of desecration and paralysis of the army is not simply irresponsible, it is a policy of encouraging potential aggressors. This is why system policy through the 2010 budget project provides exactly: the general fund does not provide a single penny, I emphasize, or a single penny to restore resilience, maintenance, exploitation, repair of weapons and military equipment, procurement and modernization of weapons. This is a double blow to the back not only of the army but also of the defence industry, which cannot be ordered either to produce or to repair and modernize military technology. And this is the loss of millions of jobs. For other important purposes, next year’s government offers to spend purely symbolic amounts, please listen. Protecting important public objects is one million, I repeat, just one million. For whom do we prepare to capture these secret public objects? Not to mention that research and development in the field of defence is 59 million, for military liaison is 29 million. We urge all who are responsible for the proper status and funding of the army, especially the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and especially the Prime Minister, to review immediately their attitude toward the defense capacity of our state. The government should ensure that the necessary decisions, including changes to the 2009 budget, are made in order to remedy the financing and technical provision of the Armed Forces in the coming weeks. As far as the 2010 budget is concerned, its military figures should be thoroughly reviewed in the direction of enlargement. Those who want to implement their populist projects at the expense of the country’s security are to keep in mind the well - known axiom: Those who do not want to feed their own armies will be forced to feed a foreigner. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u157	The National MP, Kirilenko, hands over the right to speak to the National MP of Ungurian. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u158	Paul Unguryan, faction of the “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. I'd like to say a few words about the main issues today, I think, of the problems in Ukrainian society. And we all talk a lot today about the crisis that surrounds the world, including Ukraine. But only individual experts agree that the root of any economic, social crisis is primarily the crisis of morality and spirituality. Today, many politicians feel it is necessary to blame each other for one another's actions, the wrong approach to the socio-economic development of the country. But only individual voices today insist on the need to address the main issues of protection of spirituality, morality, and the health of the Ukrainian nation. The Timoshenko’s “Blank of July” has consistently and persistently resolved these very issues, issues related to the fact that beer alcoholism is being addressed in Ukraine today. And it's our faction that's engaging other political forces to recognize beer today as an alcoholic drink, because today this system just doesn't work. And what happens in Ukrainian playgrounds and streets, when teenage children use this drink without hindrance, is actually the drinking alcoholism that Ukraine falls into. This is an increase in excise duties on alcohol and tobacco, which makes it impossible for children, young people, adolescents, and students to access these dangerous products without hindrance. This is a question of banning, closing down the gaming business in Ukraine, which is also very relevant. And it was Prime Minister Yulia Timoshenko that our political power succeeded in bringing together the Chamber of Deputies around this painful problem: the gaming business in Ukraine is closed. This is also the issue of child pornography, which is unfortunately being produced in Ukraine today, and Ukraine has become, according to analysts all over the world, the leader in producing this shameful product. It's the faction of Yulia Tymoshenko, and it's the faction of the other factions that introduced the bill. I would like to thank the representatives of Ephraim, Kzarykov, Sphenov, from the Party of the Regions, from the Communist Party of Ukraine, who are also indifferent to these issues. So today, these issues are one of the most important, and the faction of the Timoshenko Yulia Block calls on all political forces to unite not only in the fight against the economic crisis, but, above all, with the spiritual and moral crisis in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u159	The sand, Ivan Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u160	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u161	Yeah, it's six minutes. The Plitnikov National MP also refers to the right to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u162	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Highly esteemed colleagues. I'd like to ask you a few questions. First, by Decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of 26 June 2007 “On the approval of the technical description and the model passport of a Ukrainian citizen for going abroad and amending certain acts of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine”, a passport of a Ukrainian citizen was introduced to go abroad with a new model produced using the technology of the State Information System for the registration of individuals in central order. The same decree established that passports issued by a Ukrainian citizen to go abroad, as well as passports issued using passport forms issued by a Ukrainian citizen to go abroad from previous samples, are valid for the duration of their operation. But the production of passport forms of previous samples stops when the decision is made to be valid. The production of a passport using state information system technology in a centralized manner is carried out through appropriate software, and a program is installed in technical complexes located at the Ukrainian Ministry of Internal Affairs in the areas. However, when submitting documents to produce a citizen’s passport, other documents should also include the State Tax Administration’s assistance in assigning him the identification code that is entered into the database. The absence of such a code makes it impossible to enter information into this database and subsequently produce a passport citizen. At the same time, there are a large number of citizens living in the territory of Chernivecki, who, as a result of their religious beliefs, have refused to assign them identification codes, which are forced to contact the city of Kiev, where the center is located, to produce passport documents for departure abroad. Many priests and believers want to go on a pilgrimage to the holy powers in the immediate vicinity of the monastery of South Bukovina, which is 10-20 kilometers from the Ukrainian border, which does not need much money. But going to Kiev, at least twice, takes a lot of money and time — at least 16 hours on one side of the train to make a foreign passport. Therefore, in order to solve the problems of citizens and to ensure the production of citizens in the Montenegrin region who, because of their religious beliefs, have refused to assign them an identification code, a Ukrainian citizen's passport to go abroad, I consider it appropriate to implement as quickly as possible in the territory of the Chernivian area of software, which will allow citizens to form passports in the absence of an identification code. So I'm addressing the second time, the first time it was written, now from the Supreme Council's rostrum to the Cabinet of Ministers to take immediate action to solve this problem. The other one. As regards the 2010 budget. I ask the Budget Committee and Minfin to provide for the distribution of the corresponding funds in the Chernobyl region as a result of the natural disaster on the local roads of general use in such a way as: for the code “O” 26126 the road on the Upper Petrovci-Lower Petrovci-Arsitsa 5.9 km – 5.9 million grivens; for the code “C” 260703 Bojani-Ridkovci-Slobada-Zelenie Guy Novoselecki region 8 km – 8 million grivens; for the code “O” 26009 Stans-Petrosovka-Bayraki-Velika Buda-Budinestst. [[10 kilometers]] - 10 million dollars. As well as for the clearing houses of the village of Globoke, there are 2 million bracelets. There is also a need to provide for the construction and deposit of a hospital in Hertz — 2 million dollars. As well as additional funds to strengthen the shores of the year, Little Siret, Siret, and Prutt. To resolve the issues that have arisen as a result of this natural disaster. As for the state level, I would also like to draw attention to the need to anticipate in the section of the National Committee on Nationality and Religion an additional 100 million dollars to support national cultural development programmes of national and linguistic minorities. Because what is happening now is only the support of Ukrainians abroad who are not citizens of Ukraine and do not pay taxes. Therefore, I believe that those who pay taxes are entitled to adequate support. Third. I would like to point out that on September 30, 2009, the Cabinet of Ministers decided to amend the general education and educational system, which provides that Ukrainian language is available in the public and municipal educational institution. True, alongside the Ukrainian language in the educational process in public and municipal educational institutions, languages of national minorities can be applied and studied. But at the same time it's written that in public and municipal public schools, Ukrainian language is constantly being used. And where the language of national minorities is used, it can also be used. So the main thing in this case is not the language of teaching, and that's already the way to assimilation. So the Party of Regions has prepared an appropriate constitutional application to prevent restrictions on the right to use native language in the process of education. And the last. In an attempt by the government and the Ministry of Defense to cover the budget through the sale of military property, I demand to stop trying to sell the House of Officers 29 garrison of the city of Chernivci, which was built before nationalisation at its own expense and belongs to the Romanian community and the Orthodox community of Bukovina. There is also a need to take steps to return the building to those who built it and to open it up to a polyculture university, a Romanian library, a cultural center, and so forth. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u163	The Najdjonov People’s MP hands over the right to speak to the national deputy of Kzarkov, who is six minutes away from the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u164	Respectable voters! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! On 6 and 7 October, the head of the Court of Auditors, Valentin Simonenko, presented a number of sensational and stupendous facts relating to financial irregularities in the budget area of the Government of Ukraine in 2008-2009. For 2008. The implementation of the State budget last year has led to almost all macroeconomic and budgetary indicators taken into account in the approval of the State budget. Pay discipline has deteriorated on write-offs, think of 5 billion bracelets. The tax debt of economic operators, the clearing of the accounts by 2.2 billion gross, on the one hand decreased by 9 billion dollars, according to the Government. The Government has managed to ignore the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine to restore the benefits and guarantees of individual citizens, violating the constitutional rights and freedoms of at least 5.3 million citizens of our country. "It works." The establishment and use of the special fund was also almost out of Parliament's control. Thus, in 2008, the income of the special fund and the self-increased budget, the budget manager, namely the Cabinet of Ministers, amounted to 7 billion grevens. For example, funds received from special funds from departments and ministries in the form of payment of legal persons and citizens for administrative services provided by an official. The Court of Auditors has reviewed a number of ministries, such as the results. The law enforcement authorities of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the State Tax Administration, issue about one and a half million permits per year, with fees of more than 160 million bracelets in 2008. These funds are largely made available to the special fund, all of which are based on only one legislative act, the decisions of the Government. At the same time, standards for the provision of such services are not fully available today, the cost of these services in many cases has been verified, exceeded by three, four, five, even ten times, since it includes the salaries of officials who still receive them from the State Fund, except for all other fees and deductions. Thus, a large amount of budget, which last year is about 46 billion dollars or a fifth of the total state budget, remains out of parliamentary control and is actually distributed by Parliament alone. For 2009. The Court of Auditors concluded that 80 per cent of all budget programmes had not been implemented in the first half of 2009. There has been a violation in the area of VAT reimbursement, the distribution of funds used for the Euro-2012 Championship, the allocation of funds without Parliament, without agreement with the budgetary committee, and remains an additional budgetary resource of the Government. In fact, the government's pocket money. The main point in the conclusion of the College of Accounts is that most of the funds are spent on current expenditure items, for the treatment of holes. In particular, almost 3 billion grevens were not specifically targeted at paying off payroll debts, which is not a targeted use of budget funds. According to the facts of economic abuse and violations, materials were sent to the Attorney-General's Office, both in 2008 and 2009. However, the outcome and legal assessments of the financial violations have not yet taken place. In view of the particular public importance of the issues raised, the facts relating to the violation of financial discipline on a particularly large scale, the threat to the national security of Ukraine, on behalf of the Company of Ukraine faction, I request: the Office of the Procurator-General of Ukraine, the Security Service of Ukraine to carry out a complete and comprehensive audit on these facts, as well as on the basis of the materials of the Court of Auditors, and to establish a working group, with the assistance of specialized agencies, ministries and by 1 December 2009, to respond in writing. The Court of Auditors, too, is requested to provide financial violations, copies of those documents that they sent to the Attorney-General's Office in 2008 and 2009. Please consider my statement as a deputy request. Also, on the basis of citizens'requests, I would like to make another statement. Against the backdrop of legal impunity in the higher echelons, top officials have turned their backs on violations of the legitimate rights of citizens on the ground. I was approached by citizens living in houses 4a, 5, 5a, 6, 6a, 10a, 12,13,14.15 on the street of Škodova mountain in Odessa. I went there and was really horrified to see the conditions in which people lived. They live in a zone, in fact, an environmental disaster, which has been attributed several times to the health protection zone. On the one hand, the Lukoel oil refinery, on the other hand, is also located within 100 metres of the residence of citizens. On the third side, there is a disposal of chemicals. There are frequent burns on the landfill, and practically families are forced to leave their homes and stay with relatives and acquaintances. Citizens'requests and statements are subject to basic write-offs. There are 400 people living in these houses, about 150 of them children. To all the nightmares that have occurred for citizens of the recent undetermined people, they have begun to ship and store cheese and other chemical products near homes. When the cheese is loaded into the wagons, everything around it is covered with a layer of chemical rush. Imagine what happens to both adults and children who live there. You thought it was the end of the horror movie. Nope. We went to check and found that there was also an AVT installation, a bitumen installation, a cracking installation. When wind conditions are installed in those places, almost people are suffocating from hydrogen, ammonia, and other petroleum products. Emissions of toxins and substances that harm human health are directly identified, practically daily.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u165	Finish up. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u166	Allegedly, they often suffer. A high percentage of cancers have been established. Children have a very high rate of respiratory disease. On behalf of the IHR faction, I appeal to the Prime Minister, the Attorney-General, the Minister of Environment, the Minister of Health, to establish an interdepartmental group on this fact and to hold an immediate meeting at the site of the environmental disaster. Consider also the removal of citizens from the sanitary zone. Please consider this statement as a request by the MP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u167	National MP Steshenko is transferring the right to speak to the national deputy Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u168	Thank you, Mr. Head. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention, to draw our voters' attention to the unique thing that has just happened. Now, during the start-up and mass preparations for the presidential election campaign, there is an attack on the hugely loved people of Radio Melody. The Radio Melody just wants to close. In doing so, they wanted to close it by means of a decree from the Attorney General’s Office in the general order of supervision, using a formal ghost, by allegedly underpaid licence fees. The National Council on Television and Radio Broadcasting has decided, literally within a few days, the issue has been resolved and the decision has been taken to revoke the license. And this has ruined our voters, and this has ruined the citizens of Ukraine. Everyone understands that this is an attempt to capture the Melody radio network. And that's why I'm addressing the Attorney General of Medeksandro Ivanovich precisely because of a prescription that only happens when there's been a violation of the law, and that's a formal reason. Now it's suspended by a court decision, but it does exist. I have been addressing you, Alexander Ivanovich, with a parliamentary appeal, to the great regret, no decision has been made. I also want to report that we will stand up and, as the head of the Party of Fatherland's Defenders, this radio station will not be allowed to strangle freedom of speech. Among other things, I would like to draw the Attorney General's attention to the savage fact that has taken place today in the Cave Court of Kiev, the famous Cave Court. For six months, Tiberius Durdinec, the deputy head of the Security Service, was sought. This is what it looks like: a search, a search, for the commission of a crime, by Durdinac Tiberius Juryovich. He had been hiding for six months from the investigation, but it did not prevent him from moving on Kiev and so on. Now the Attorney General has sent only 35 sheets for his complaint of a criminal offence, which is to say that the decision on a criminal offence would have been overturned. But the truth is that it was only a failure to execute the court, and it was nothing about exceeding the official powers, listening to the judges, listening to the counsel of the Attorney General. But there was also a conspiracy, including because of yours, Alexandre Ivanovich, Attorney General, the decision to remove Renata Kuzmin from.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u169	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u170	That's why I'm addressing the Attorney General of Ukraine, I'm addressing the democratic community, this case has to be on public control, and the Attorney General has to take full steps to ensure that those who violate the constitutional rights of citizens are brought to criminal responsibility. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u171	Volencian Eugene Valerijovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u172	Respectable voters! Not the first year of the school No. 2 the village of the northern town of Snowy Donetsk Region is hung by Damoklov sword. School's closed. True, in the Government, this is beautifully referred to as “the optimisation of the network of educational institutions”. But the fact remains. On September 1, 2009, instead of a commemorative line of students who attended the Knowledge Day celebration, the city authorities tried to get on a bus and take them to another school, where they would now have to study at the decision of the Snjegian Mountains Council. It was not possible for the urban authorities to implement what was intended. Children were not transferred to school No. 1 of the same village because the buses were just blocked. There are 179 students in school. It has a young professional team that prepares Olympic winners and various competitions, literate and comprehensive developed children, graduates for the country's universities. This is very important for the settlement, the city and the area. It is these children who are returning to their home village to build the future. Many questions arise in any normal person. For example, why were parents not familiar with the decision of the City Council to close the school? Why did they raise money to repair the school at the end of last school year? Why was an old bus with a bald rubber used to transport children instead of promised new ones? And who even gave permission for the carriage of children? Most importantly, why does no one take into account that children from the village of Andreevka and the former mine Deaf will have to go a few kilometers, that is, practically, as children arrived in the early twentieth century. The residents of the Northern settlement had already witnessed the closure of the hospital and four kindergartens. Then they were also convinced that it was an optimisation. As a result, no buildings have been rehabilitated since then. Even so, there are about 900 children growing up in the village, and they must go to school sooner or later. He asks, "Where are their virgins?" Overcrowding classes? It's not an option either. More than 100 people now claim one seat in the kindergarten. Another important problem is the diggers. When mines are closed and unemployment is rising, people are forced to work under inhuman conditions to feed themselves and their family, but this is one side of the medal. Members of the Zolotarev Rural Council of the Donetsk region of the Donetsk Region requested me to assist in the resolution of the violation of unauthorized mining by an open method of coal and stone on the territory of their council. The work has resulted in an extremely dangerous environmental situation, which has led to damage to soil and damage to housing, houses and immediate recyclability. The fact is that coal mining is practically carried out on the territory of the village's land plots. And this is documented by the State Inspectorate of the Donetsk Region. More than 193,000 bracelets have been damaged. This damage is now estimated at an even greater number of thousands. In turn, neither the Shakhteri Procurator's Office nor the Shakhteri State Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, in whose direction the territory is located, and all the materials sent by the State Department of the Donetsk Region, have responded to these facts. There has been a prowling of pies, as is done in the Amvrosiev region's Will. The head of the Tarasenka farm, Nikolai Nikolayevich, is completely impeding this divide and the raid of the territories.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u173	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u174	That's why it's under pressure from all sides. I am being referred to the Prosecutor's Office of the Donetsk Region to the Chief of the Directorate-General of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Donetsk. If officials refuse to resolve this request, I will send a request to the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine and the relevant authorities, but already with the wording of the impeccable performance by officials of the area of their direct duties and the requirement of verification in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u175	People’s deputies Papiev and Mironenko are transferring the right to speak to the national deputy of Gorinius. Six minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u176	Respectable TV sets, radio sets and colleagues! I wish to make a statement on the unprecedented case of corruption in the law enforcement authorities and the prosecutor's office. In August, as it turned out three days ago, I had a criminal case against the Ukrainian national deputy, Gorina Irina Anatolievna, my family, my sister, her husband, all my assistants, members of my family, my uncle, with the prosecution of the Malinov district of Odessa. The investigation was carried out, and the investigation was carried out by the UBOP of the city of Odessa. Three days ago, 6 a.m., at 6 a.m., investigative groups came to all my family's addresses, searched for two hours, took all the people and took them to the republican UBOP in the city of Kiev. Having learned of this case, I came as a national MP and certainly came only because I am a Ukrainian national MP. No ordinary citizen could even reach the cabinet of Minister Bedrikivsky of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in order to understand what had happened and what was an unprecedented event. Lawyers were invited to all detainees throughout the day. As early as 6 October, the Constitutional Court ruled that if people as witnesses were invited to be interrogated by law enforcement authorities, they could use the services of a lawyer. I was denied that. Late in the evening, all the people were transported by Titan's special vehicles to Odessa. Two days, talking to the minister of the Ministry, with the Attorney General's Office, I couldn't figure out where my family was. Only two days later, they were released. One of my employees, a former colleague of mine, was immediately taken to the military hospital because he was a former soldier with a massive heart attack, and he is now at his death. I want to make a statement that this unprecedented shabbash is now covered by the Prosecutor of the Odessa District of Jury, covering the First Deputy Minister of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Bedrikivsky. I see this now as an unprecedented case of an attack by the authorities on the opposition, on me as a national MP who often acts through channels and makes unfavorable statements against the work of the existing authority. Please consider my statement as a request by the MP and I request: the first, from the Prosecutor-General, to remove the Prosecutor of the Odessa Region of Jury from his duties at the time of verification of the information I have presented and to decide on his dismissal; the second, from the Head of the BSC to conduct a thorough anti-corruption review of the activities of the Jury and the Bedrikivsky on the cover of business structures and illegal activities, to initiate criminal proceedings against these persons; the third, the Attorney-General, ask the Prosecutor-General to amend the case with a view to carrying out a full and objective investigation; the fourth, the committees of the Supreme Council dealing with anti-corruption issues, the activities of law enforcement authorities at my meetings, to examine the situation in which I have been and which I consider a personal prosecution of me as a national deputy and my family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-09-m0.u177	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that the next Wednesday, October 14, at 14 a.m., the Supreme Council of Ukraine will hold parliamentary hearings on the subject: “Foreign Ukraine. The state of the art and the prospects for cooperation.” Please participate in parliamentary hearings. The following week, Ukrainian national deputies have to work on committees and factions. The plenary meeting is scheduled to take place on October 20th at 10 a.m. On October 19, at 11 p.m., a meeting of the Conciliation Council will take place. At this morning’s plenary session, I declare closed.
