ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Please prepare for registration. Please turn on the "Council" system. [[10:00:22]] There are 334 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The morning plenary session is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the Ukrainian national deputy Kravchuk Vasil Petrovich. Please welcome our colleague and wish him creative strength and parliamentary work. () [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, I would like to inform you of the results of our work in the plenary on November 17th. 23 questions of the agenda have been considered. As a result of their consideration: 8 laws and 1 decree were passed, 1 bill was adopted on the basis, 1 bill was returned to the committee for re-reading, 1 bill was adopted on second reading and sent for third reading, 1 bill was rejected. As a result of a review of the President's proposals: the President's veto has been overrun by 2 laws, 7 laws have been rejected as a result of the veto failure. According to 25 articles of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules today, 30 minutes for speeches by Ukrainian national deputies with statements, petitions, announcements. Please sign up for the Ukrainian National Deputies. National MP Zvaric. He's handing over the right to speak to the People's Deputy Kendzior. Turn on the microphone from the location of the Kendzior People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u2	I'm asking you to pass the word to Vasil Kiselov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u3	Respectable compatriots! I hope that this is an address -- and you'll see why Kenzior gave me his word -- is a call to senior officials of the state to make the prosecution prove that the law is one for all and thereby restore citizens' trust in power and faith in justice. On August 9, this year, during an official football match in the presence of more than two hundred citizens, Melnik, who takes place in internal affairs as the leader of an organized criminal group, brutally maimed, I emphasize, during the official match, the main arbitrator of the Tkachenko football match. The victim’s medical expertise confirms this. Ukraine's internal affairs have been criminalized, but considering that Melnik is a member of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, and according to the Crimea deputies' status law, the criminal offence order is to be signed by the Crimea prosecutor, but the Crimea prosecutor does not. I appealed to the Attorney General of Ukraine with a parliamentary statement on this matter, asking for effective and operational action because the Crimea formed a strong belief that the prosecution and the courts were covering up criminality. And if the Simferopol interim investigation commission is able to report tomorrow, there will be dozens of examples of increased criminality with authorities, law enforcement authorities, and courts. Considering that the prosecutor's office does not support the citizen of Tkachenka, does not hear the parliamentary requests and does not enforce the laws, I want the Ukrainian society to know about it, and I very much hope that tomorrow our commission will get the word for the report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u4	Paklusenko Alexander Mikolaiovich is passing on the right to speak to Papiev Mikhail Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u5	The honourable national deputies of Ukraine, the distinguished voters, the distinguished representatives of the media, to come out to this rostrum made me simply a violent situation that is today in Ukraine and is primarily related to the attitude of the active government of Timoshenko to its own people. You know, this is where you can imagine a country in the world where the government doesn't implement laws where the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopts the Act on raising social standards, where the Supreme Council of Ukraine changes the state budget of Ukraine and finds sources of funds for this law. And the need for this law to be implemented is 1 billion dollars. Every day we see on television our government’s spectacle, telling us that there is no money in the government, that the government is not going to comply with Ukraine’s laws. And I'm saying today, and the faction of the Party of Regions claims that, as always, Timoshenko is telling the lie. Here I have documents proving that on August 28th and September 9th of this year, the International Monetary Fund allocated $1 billion to Ukraine under the “Special Rights Loan” programme, $309 million, $430,000. On November 6, Ukraine’s State Treasury received $470 million. On November 13, $1.3 billion was spent on treasury funds. Imagine there's 10 billion dollars in treasury accounts. At the same time, Timoshenko claims that there are no 1 billion dollars to raise social standards and minimum pensions. She insists that there are no billions of dollars to fight the epidemic. And there's money in the government. Therefore, the faction of the Ukrainian Party of Regions calls upon all factions that voted in favour of the Ukrainian Act on raising social standards to gather together today, as leaders of these factions, and for us in the Supreme Council of Ukraine to establish parliamentary control over the activities of the government of Timoshenko in the use of the funds of the State Treasury of Ukraine. There's a price to raise pensions and wages. In addition, respectable colleagues have the impression that speaking and terrible for Ukraine is not what Julia Volodymyrna repeatedly says lies, but the terrible thing that she seems to be capable of. Therefore, the vote of the Ukrainian National Deputies in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the resignation of this government will answer our own people about who Ukraine needs today. I'm asking you to support the resignation of the government. This government has no right to exist.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u6	Verni Dubov Ivan Vasilovich, please. The People's Deputy Vernidubov is delegating the right to speak to the People's Deputy Korje, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u7	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! The deeper economic crisis, poverty, epidemics of infectious diseases, immunization of the population with inadequacy vaccines, and a number of other problems in the country have long been linked to the free leadership of an active government. It should be recalled that the announcement of the Prime Minister’s promise at the beginning of his office to regulate prices for medical devices led to a series of corruption schemes, several times the price of drugs, and exacerbated existing problems in the pharmaceutical market. In the face of economic downturns and actual stoppages, despite the legislation adopted to prevent the impact of the financial crisis, the Ministry of Health is deliberately buying drugs in foreign companies despite the current legislation. The purchase of vaccines for the prevention of pertussis, diphtheria, tetanus, and hemophiliac infection 25 times exceeded the world’s prices and led to the creation of a deficit in the provision of domestic medical supplies, as well as the loss of the state budget of over 150 million dollars. In addition, during the flu epidemic, medicines were ordered for domestic production. While noting the availability of domestic medicines, government officials are tirelessly convincing the public that there are no such drugs, spending millions of public funds on a much more expensive foreign remedy for Tamiflu. And they admitted that they bought it three times as much as they needed it. This policy has led to a significant decrease of up to 10 percent, in portions of the cheapest and most affordable medicines in the domestic market for less protected Ukrainian citizens. The same was true of purchasing health - care equipment when the purchase price of one of the government’s market programs exceeded 13 million dollars. The irreparable damage to the domestic market has also resulted in the restructuring of the control system in the area of the circulation of medical devices, which has led to an uncontrolled and tenfold increase in expenditure from the state budget to maintain a new institution. And all of this is known to happen with the blessing and patronage of the Cabinet of Ministers. This is the destructive path that has been taken to secure the domestic market for medical supplies and price policies that have led to the suckling up of our citizens' last funds. These abuses have been repeatedly emphasized by the national members of the profile committee in their appeals to the Prime Minister. Therefore, Mrs. Timoshenko's statements about the creation of a proper inter-agency commission to investigate corruption must be regarded as another farce aimed at manipulating citizens' consciousness on the eve of presidential elections. The Prime Minister of Ukraine is well aware of the abuse of the Ministry of Health. The only equipment with the equipment for rural FAPs deserves three hundred years of prison is my deep conviction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u8	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u9	These devices are fixed by two appropriate decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers. And what it costs to just change prices for the first-line anti-fungal drugs that have been doubled over two weeks. We have a government that can't even determine the price of the gauze we can talk about. We are deeply convinced that ignoring the laws of Ukraine, political machinations, speculation and cynicism of an active government, in relation to its own people, will be appreciated by the citizens of our state during their election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u10	Pavlovsky’s national deputy hands over the right to speak to Shustik Oleni Juryevni.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u11	Olena Shustik, Timoshenko Yulia Block, Ukrainian Social Democratic Party. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the dangerous environmental situation that took place in the Jovkow region because of the most urban urban wastebasket in Ukraine. Long - term ignore by the Lviv City Council of problems caused by the use of garbage more than two permissible terms threatens to reverse a real environmental disaster that will undermine the health of the region’s inhabitants by destroying the environment. The garbage dump located on the territory of the Głobwiecki Rural Council since 1959 has been in operation without a project. Highly dangerous to the population are lakes of acidic gourds that occupy 8 acres [8 ha], which are constantly leaking toxic substances into drinking water sources. A great threat to the environment lies in the lake of Gudron at a height of 20 to 30 meters near the foot of the dump, in the immediate vicinity of the village of Globovich and the village of Melech. The walls of this boiler, where tens of thousands of tons of sulfuric acid are stored, reach just a few meters and may break during seismic activity in the region. These dangerous toxins are found in drinking water, as lakes are located in the territory of the large European waterworks Plant. In the garbage dumps, fires are periodically caused by the neglect of waste storage technology and the lack of overcrowding of their land. The question of the termination of the operation of the Lviv city garbage disposal was repeatedly raised by the daily order of the Lviv district, the Zowkow district, and the Dublin village councils. As early as 2000, the Lviv Oblast decided to stop its operation from January 1, 2006. Yet, regardless of the decisions that have been made, this question has not been resolved to this day. The Lviv City Council ignores the decision of the Lviv District and Jovkow District Council. In the meantime, the problem is the result of constant protests by locals. At the same time, on September 30, 2009, the Lviv City Council decided to withdraw six million dollars from the city budget. Costs are planned for the development of a comprehensive phase-out project for garbage disposal, for completion of work, for monitoring studies. However, this is the future, and the problem requires an immediate response. Dear colleagues! The garbage dump needs to be permanently closed and taken steps to recover it and dispose of it in acid gourds and dispose of lake infiltration dumps. It is also necessary to immediately allocate the land for the construction of a garbage treatment complex for the city of Lviv. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u12	National MP Korge Pavlov Petrovich passes on the right to speak to Herman Hanni Mikolayivna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u13	Friends, these days it will be five years since today’s Ukrainian leaders led Ukraine to Midan. And where did they bring her? And that's what yesterday's Transparency International international public organization report says, they've brought the orange leadership of Ukraine 146th place in the world of corruption, worse off is only in Somalia, but there are pirates. In doing so, Ukraine divided 146 places on an equal footing of corruption with Russia. So it turns out that Russia, which is better, always keeps it, and worse, Ukraine shares it with Russia. At the same time, Julia Timoshenko states: “Putin will never fail us.” Julia Volodymyrna, Putin will never betray her country, for Putin knows how to defend her interests. And unfortunately, he doesn't have it, you just take a few words from him, like "thirty" and you look like a Kremlin parrot. Because Putin is really fighting those who are “thyrite” and you are “tiring” yourself, Julius Volodymyrically and “tyrite” very successfully! We already know that you have stolen the State Reserve Fund so that it is left with the white wallpaper itself and 48 sizes. In these days, Julia Volodymyrna, you ordered Naftogazu, which is essentially a bankruptcy, to count 6 million dollars for the setting up of the hall, where you will be carrying out the Eurology childish, because it's under your patronage. Isn't that corruption, Julius Volodymyr? These days, you've been scattering postcards all over Ukraine to fight the flu printed at the expense of the state budget with the symbol "The Yulia Tymoshenko Block", with your limp heart on the left side of this card. Isn't that corruption, Julia Volodymyrna? Isn’t that called “tearing down your pockets ”? So learn, Julia Volodymyrna, in Putin, how to fight those who “thirty, ” not learn the words. Because really, I'm saying, you look like a cornflake.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u14	Shevchuk Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, in the early 1960s, two scientists from England, Britain, Creek and Watson made a historic discovery. They discovered the human genome, they deciphered the code, they deciphered the human DNA. And when they were awarded the Nobel Prize, one of the scholars in the traditional Nobel Prize laureate speech said something like this: “We were indeed able to make a great discovery, it will serve humanity and human health, but right now I am going out with a banal cold, and I must admit that mankind has not yet produced mechanisms to fight cold and flu.” Since then, 50 years have passed, half a century, but the flu is still uncontrollable. During this time, the axiom was said: “Not as terrible a flu as its complications.” Allow me to pause briefly on certain complications, the social complications of the latest flu epidemic. Well, first of all, the flu can not only cause pneumonia but also cause a state of emergency. The second is that the flu epidemic affects the possible outcome of these elections during the presidential elections. And that's why we are now witnessing the great activity of individual politicians who serve the chief candidates for the presidency and use this topic. The flu epidemic has proved to be the best period for the commercial and corruption of officials. And in this connection, we can only welcome the efforts of an active government to create an interdisciplinary commission to investigate each case of such corruption in the management and the Ministry of Health and other structures. And it is surprising that our opponents object to this work in order to eradicate the very philosophy of profit and profit on the human mountain. I think this is related to the fact that the interministerial commission of today’s government is planning to consider not only the current epidemic but also the previous years, when other politicians and their fear of answering will govern the ministry and the government. Now it's obvious. And there's another conclusion from today's epidemic that they're usually going to end up looking for archers and these shooters, they're easy to find, they're regular doctors and pharmacists. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all let's not harm, let's vote in favour of overcoming the President's veto on the well-known Medical Bill. And this will be the best example of our consolidation in this difficult period.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u16	People’s deputy Kirilenko Viacheslav Anatoliyevich is referring the right to speak to Shkutak Zinovija Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u17	Deputies! Dear Ukrainians! The Citizens' Movement “For Ukraine!” wants to draw the attention of society and urges the leadership of the Supreme Council to stop blocking educational reform and to adopt, as a whole, the external testing bill number 4241, adopted in the first reading on 15 April of this year. To all lobbyists of the old corruption schemes of entering the institutions in this room and beyond, it is time to stop trying to block this or not reform in recent years, and the reform has been successful and supported by society. Why more than six months of the law that millions of people are awaiting do not enter the final adoption hall. Instead, the so - called comments of the Supreme Council’s Legal Office, which are a mixture of insinuations and lies, have appeared on the Parliament’s website for days. These remarks contain a lot of conjecture that testing seems to limit access rights to the schools of those who finished school earlier, that the operation of the certificate of test results is more limited in time than the induction exams, and that in general the tests reduce human rights and freedoms. In fact, the only thing they're narrowing down is the possibility of corruption when entering a university. For two hundred thousand Ukrainians, without any connections or bribes on the basis of their own knowledge, have become students, including the most prestigious institutions, including the children of the poorest groups of the population of Ukraine, as well as in Europe as a basis for a person’s becoming a student, so that the child can become a student, we have knowledge, not corruption. This certainly helps to restore the prestige of education, improves the atmosphere, both in high school and in higher school. But some people don't want our Ukrainian children to learn honestly and then protect and build their own country. But not for this reform to stick not only to the integrity and professionalism of Minister Vakarczuk, because, unfortunately, it seems that no one else needs to go through this successful reform in our country, but only Minister Vakarczuk. And we also want it, this reform, to stick to the clear rules of the law in order to make it irreversible, to be adopted by Law No. 4142. We call on Parliament and all MPs to adopt this good work for the whole country without delay. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u18	The National Deputy Stoyan is transferring the right to speak to the National Deputy of Popov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u19	Dear colleagues, our faction of the Party of the Regions has repeatedly focused on the non-professional policy of the Government of Ukraine to address housing and communal issues in the Supreme Council Hall. I would like to recall that, at the time of the outbreak in our country, 23,000 homes in our country were not warm. This has certainly had a negative impact on the health situation as a whole. I would like to recall that, to date, important issues related to the stable financial and economic situation have not been resolved both in utilities and in the National Shareholder of Naftegaz Ukraine. During the past period, this year only 59 per cent of the estimated consumption of gas has been applied to each other. And if you take the first decade of November, that's only 22 percent. Bankruptcy is at the forefront of those enterprises that must work in a stable manner during the heating season. Unfortunately, it's just a back story. If we look at what the Government is offering us next year, especially after reviewing the 2010 draft budget, we can say that we are being bombed with a serious bomb that will almost never appear to anyone. I would like to recall that the price for gas today we buy in the Russian Federation is on average about $220. And we're delivering this gas to the utilities -- $110. 110 dollars, or almost 100 per cent of the value, has to be compensated from the State budget. In recent years, that has been the case. But if we look at the situation for 2010, we will see that there is no full allocation of Naku subsidies. Local budgets will not be allocated at all. There are no negotiations with the Government with the Russian Federation to address the reduction in gas prices to Ukraine. Dear colleagues! If this situation is left unchecked, I say objectively that in 2010 we can receive an increase of about 70 per cent in heat and hot water. This will hit the population so seriously, to this day and to this day and to this day, it will lead to the bankruptcy of utilities, we will virtually lose the opportunity to provide stable utilities to the people of the country. I would ask the Government to answer the questions I have raised today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u20	Yavorovsky Volodymyr Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u21	Dear voters, distinguished national MPs! Vladimir Yavorowski, BUT, Kirovograd As for those primitive, smurfy old incidents against the Ukrainian government, I will not answer. Above all, Ukrainian pensioners still receive a pension in the face of a terrible crisis, while Ukrainian budgeters still receive their salary. Because the caravan is going, that's what's important. Now I would like to draw your attention to such a problem, which the Ukrainian community knows about, and I would just like to say that we don't need to argue anymore about what language the Ukrainian judiciary should be, whether national Ukrainian or some other language. I think we can even write in a bill that says there's a lot of money in the Ukrainian courts! That's probably what's important. This was the case in Kirovograd. During his privatisation in the early 1990s, Kirovograd Radio Plant was privatized. But everyone knows, every human being, the MPs know more, that the hostels weren't part of a privatization complex. As a result, several dormitories of this radio plant have not been privatized. It was kind of normal, but there's this guy who privatized this radio station, and he's bringing back some information that BTI's already recorded the dormitories. It's absolutely understandable -- a violent forgery of everything: the District Court takes decisions, and more than 500 people, the unfortunate people who live in this hostel and no longer have any hope of housing, are thrown into the streets. I brought help from the State Property Fund, where it was very clear that the privatization hostels were not included. The court rejects, does not even consider. Well, I think everything, the district court, didn't clean up, paid them money. Well, the Dnipropetrov Court is already fair, it's higher, it's much bigger, I think it's not going to be so much fun anymore, and it's going to be a decision. What do you think? It ends on, it repeats the same story. It's all on the surface, it's all fake documents, it's all thrown out, I say, on the street, literally, with the kids, these miserable people. This is what we have today in the Ukrainian courts. That's why I'm addressing this rostrum of Parliament and our Ministry of Justice, and I'm addressing the Supreme Court, so let's protect these people, because they've already failed completely in everything. I think it will, and I want to believe it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u22	The National MP Popov refers the right to speak to the National MP, Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u23	Thank you. Valentina Matviev, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, honourable voters, very recently we celebrated the anniversary of the liberation of Ukraine from German-Fashistic invaders and are now preparing for the glorious Jubilee -- 65 years of victory in the Great War of the country. And it cannot help but be impressed by hypocrisy and cynicism of active power. Instead of fighting all the troubles in our lives — the overwhelming crisis that has plagued all spheres of government with the terrible corruption that has already been discussed in this rostrum — the daily practice and official policy of the oranges have been masculine nationalism and cave-like anticommunism, the rehabilitation of Fascist favors, and the justification for their criminal acts. Yushchenko and his surroundings are openly demonstrating spiritual unity with them today. And another proof of this is the appeal of the veterans of the Security Service to the Ukrainian National Deputies. What caused the indignation and insidious anger of these true patriots, honest citizens who care about our country’s fate. Let me read briefly in the original language. “We veterans of the Ukrainian Security Service are outraged by the decision of the management of the BSS to assign to the Academy of Security the name of Roman Shuhević, the SS haupshtunführer, who directly participated in the destruction of Poles, Jews, Belarusians, Gypsies and people of other nationalities in both Ukraine and Belarus. As is known, the Nuremberg Tribunal of 1946 recognized all military units of the SS, SD, SA, Gestapo as criminal and therefore those who served in these organizations as war criminals. We therefore consider the Yushchenka decree, which he assigned to the title of Hero of Ukraine to Hitler's headmaster, Shuhevic, as a de facto propaganda of the neo-fascism of the Ukrainian stitch. Now it's the turn of the bus. The management of the BSS, its chairman, is expected to put himself at the same level as the Fascists who are hosting the parades of veterans of the Galicina SS. We are ashamed to see that, in the absence of our opinion, we are put in line with collaborators and war criminals by the BSS veterans. That is why we cannot accept categorically.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u24	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u25	and for this reason, we are asking you to give an assessment of the actions of the President and the management of the BSS, to raise the issue of the inadmissibility of the propaganda of neo-Naziism in Ukraine.” In this regard, the distinguished Alexandre Volodymyrovich, a faction of Communists, asks you to give an urgent commission to the National Security and Defence Committee to study the matter and to inform the Supreme Council. Such political cynicism, and generally acting on the majority of Ukrainian citizens, veterans of the Great Homeland War in particular, cannot and should not be tolerated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u26	The time for the show is up. Dear fellow Members, we are moving on to a schedule of meetings. Please log in with the procedure. Bondarenko Volodymyr Dmitrovic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u27	Please pass on the word to Cosemiakin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u28	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, I want to remind you again. Please listen to me. I'd like to remind you again. I want to remind you that by the decision of the Conciliation Council. A decision was taken on the Conciliation Council: on Thursday, to consider the issue, even if it does not have a positive assessment on the Regulatory Committee today, the question of the two interim commission of inquiry is the Committee of Medicines, the purchase of medical equipment, and the issue of Decree No 5354 on the verification of the legality of transfer to the rental of Janukovitch Viktor Fedorovich of the Government residence “Medzigira”. [[No. 5355]] And, Your Honor Alexander Volodymyrovich, I ask you, as the acting speaker of Parliament, to write these documents today to the regulatory committee so that tomorrow, the chairman of this committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u29	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u30	So the manager doesn't tell this committee that they didn't get this document. That's the first one. And the second. Remember, we don't have a national deputy yet, Mr. Vlasenko. I would like to ask the appointment of judges tomorrow, and this is a personnel question, as we agreed on at the Conciliation Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u31	Thank you, Andriy Anatolyovich. Unfortunately, I can't confirm the word agreed because decisions are being made on the Conciliation Council, I can recheck the transcript where it was made. But I can’t remember saying that there were such decisions. With regard to referral to the relevant task committee, this will certainly be done. Please, Matvienko Anatoly Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u32	Yavorovsky Volodymyr Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u33	Andrew Kožemyakin asks for his word. I can't say no to him.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u34	Alexander Volodymyrovich, we heard this technology from your side last Friday. I would like to remind you once again that Vladimir Mikhailovich said on Monday that this issue would be addressed on Thursday, especially a personnel issue that does not need a decision by the Supreme Council. As for the two TSCs, if the matter on the committee is discussed today, they may be voted in the Hall tomorrow. So please, if you don't mind. Don't make us prepare 15 signatures again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u35	Dear Mr. Cosemiakin, you can prepare 150 signatures today, but the Rules of the Supreme Council will not be violated. The decision on the inclusion in the agenda of the day’s matter by the national MP, Vlasenko, on the Conciliation Council was not taken. I can give you the full text of the transcript and you can learn it. As far as the TSC is concerned, I will definitely sign up for a profile committee. And after the presentation of the profile committee, I'm going to put questions on the agenda in the voting room. If the MPs have the will to deal with this issue, we will consider it and act only within the limits of the Rules, not within the limits of your wishes. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Radio Frequency Resources of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. He will report to the first deputy head of the Ukraine’s Slapak Secretariat, Alexander Vitaliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u36	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted on 11 June 2009 the Ukrainian Act on the Amendment of the Radio Frequency Resource Act on ensuring the effective use of radio frequency resources. I would like to remind you that the law proposes to establish that the grounds for reshaping the license to use Ukraine's radio frequency resources, in addition to the Ukrainian Radio Frequency Act, are the reorganisation of the legal person by dividing, division and joint statement by the management entities concerning the redistribution between them of the radio frequency specified in the licence. This law provides that in reorganizing the licenses obtained by dividing or separating them, they can be transformed into a reorganizing, reorganizing and reorganizing subjects. According to the President of Ukraine, this law cannot be signed for such reasons. First of all, the rule of re-licensing in the case of the reorganization of a legal person is clearly laid down in the legislation in force. Let me remind myself of article 34 on radio frequency. The redesign of the license to use the radio frequency resource takes place in the case of the reorganization of the legal person, the subject of the management by changing the organizational and legal form. [[Convert, Merge, Join]] In this case, the licenses obtained by the telecommunications operator are transformed into his successor. So there's a clear norm that absorbs such forms of reorganization as division and separation. It's different. The law does not impose any requirements on newly formed legal persons regarding their ability to carry out activities related to the use of radio frequency resources. Third. The law does not contain mandatory criteria for the redistribution of radio frequency according to a joint statement made by operators. There is no order for licenses to be redesigned for the use of Ukraine’s radio frequency resources in connection with the redistribution between the operators of the radio frequency allocated to them. Fourth. The law deals with the possibility, not the obligation, of reshaping the license to use Ukraine’s radio frequency, thus not excluding the refusal to transform. However, the reasons why the revised licenses for the use of Ukraine’s radio spectrum may be rejected are also not defined by law. All of this will provide a basis for the uneven application of the law on the possibility of redistribution of radio spectrum. I will also remind you that these issues are clearly addressed in article 46 of the Telecommunications Act, but the Act amending the Radioactive Resource Act does not propose to amend the Telecommunications Act. So we're going to get two laws that contain different rules for regulating the same issue. And finally, five. The corresponding innovations provide an opportunity for radio-frequency users to self-sustain this resource on a paid basis. That is, to sell frequencies that proved unnecessary in the course of economic activity. Considering that radio spectrum is a technically limited state resource, illegal and anti-competitive and non-state resource, it is a decision to legitimize the right of users who have obtained the right to receive the right to trade it on the basis of a licence, rather than to use it in a legally established order. Therefore, the President of Ukraine proposes rejecting the Ukrainian Law “On Making Changes to Ukraine’s Radio Frequency Resource Act. ” [[on ensuring the efficient use of radio frequency resources]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u37	Thank you, Alexander Vitaliovich, do you have a question for the reporter? No questions asked. Thank you, sit down, please. A report from the Kruk Committee, Yuri Borisovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u38	Dear Alexander Vladimirovich! Dear colleagues! The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Radio Frequency Act was adopted by the Supreme Council on 11 June this year. [[on the effective use of radio frequency resources]] [[Registration number 4531]] The bill amends article 34 to reshape the licences for use of radio frequency resources, and article 46 to reshape the operating permits, in part to supplement the law with a new basis for reshaping the licence such as the reorganization of the operator, the licensee, by allocating or dividing, redistributing the radio frequency between operators with a view to making it more efficient. The draft was supported by the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council, the Ministry of Transport of Communications and the National Communications Management Commission. On 9 July this year, the President of Ukraine vetoed the bill. In the view of the President, the bill does not lay down requirements for legal persons who reshape licences, nor do they specify the criteria for separation, and so on. What was reported today in our meeting. According to the Chief Expert Office of the Supreme Council, the President's comments should be rejected, as part two, articles 34 expressly obliges legal persons to submit documents under article 32 of the Act when reshaping the licence. In addition, the law in force clearly states that the NHRI refuses to reshape the licence and in the absence of grounds for such a transformation or misreliability of the data in the documents in question. Thus, the President's comments had no basis. In view of the above, and that the authors of this bill are the most experienced deputies, the liaisons, our committee, Mr. Korge and Mr. Morocco. Please overcome the veto of the President under this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u39	Thank you, Yuri Borisovich. Is there a question for a co-conspirator? Please sign in. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u40	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense. Dear Yuri Borisovich! I'm happy with the text of your answer. But I have a question when I've studied, I've reread the law, I've read the president's remarks, I've read the scientific expertise department's conclusion, which, by the way, I've proposed to complete article 34 with a new part -- a redesign of the license that was obtained on competitive or tender terms without them being carried out. I don’t think this article is necessary, that is, it shouldn’t be taken into account. I'd like to ask you how you feel about what caused this reluctance to make these changes right now, which are absolutely right. [[Well, in preparation, you bumped into the President's Department.]] And I support your opinion that the President's veto should be overtaken. What caused this resistance, which is for, totally normal things to reorganize, to divide businesses.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u41	Yuri Anatolyovich! I understand your question very clearly. And I would like everyone in the room to understand that the main purpose of this law is to make more effective use of radio frequency resources. And it's all in the law. So if there was one operator today, it's going to be divided into two, three, according to the legal special. And so start that train again with a license, almost a test of knowledge.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u42	Lobby? I don't know. I think it's just that this isn't the end of the law, it's hard for me to tell who's lobbying it. Therefore, I only know that our two professions such as: Mr. Korge and Mr. Moroco of our committee have been thoroughly studied and supported by the NHRIs – this is what the party said in the bill supports, that we must overcome the veto of the President.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u43	Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u44	Dear Yuri Borisovich! The faction of the Party of the Regions fully agrees with your position, with your argument that the law must be passed, the law must enter into force and the law needed to live. But very often, when the President's veto is imposed, we cannot understand the reasons. Here's the question that Yuri Carmazin raised: this is more of a “political ears” or a “lobby-corporative ears” or an absolute lack of professionalism in the President's team, which encourages Viktor Andreevich to take such an unfavorable step when he gets into another mess as he does now. As you see here, this is the result of vetoing, this is the lack of professionalism in the President's environment, which has pushed him to veto, or there is a clear political subtext. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u45	Well, in the ear part, I don't know whose ears are lit up here, but in terms of professionalism, I think it's better for professionals than the ones I said it is for Mr. Morocco and Korge, that's not the point. That is why I think it may not be that the professionals who are currently in the office of the President have been fully understood, so I would not like to comment on a number of details and take the time of the people's deputies, and I would like to ask them once again to support the veto over this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u46	Thank you, sit down, please. Let's move on to making a decision. The President of Ukraine proposed the repeal of the Ukrainian Act “On Amendments to the Ukrainian Radio Frequency Resource Act” to ensure the effective use of radio spectrum. I'm voting on the proposal of the President of Ukraine. I'm asking you to identify yourself. [[10:52:16]] For-38 The offer is not supported. I am voting on the proposal to overcome the veto of the President of Ukraine and to re-adopt the entire Ukrainian Act on the amendment of the Ukrainian Radio Frequency Act on ensuring the effective use of radio frequency resources. [[Registration number 4531]] I'd like to make a statement. [[10:52:52]] For 380 Decision taken. Veto overpowered. The law has been passed in general. The Ukrainian Act on Legal and Regulatory Acts, with proposals from the President of Ukraine, is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 1343-1]] Reported Deputy Head of the Ukrainian Presidential Secretariat, Stavniychuk Marina Ivanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u47	The President-in-Office of the Supreme Council, the honourable national deputies and those present at the meeting, the Law on Legislative and Legal Acts, which has come to the President's signature in due time, raises a number of observations, both because of the inadequacy of his Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, and because of the existence of gaps, internal contradictions. In addition, the concept applied by law also does not correspond to the general legal approach to social relations in the sphere. The main remarks made by the President of Ukraine are this. Article 1 of the law proposes to define the terms used in the law, but the terminology used requires considerable adjustment. First of all, it denies the definition in the law of the term “law” as a legal and regulatory act adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which regulates the most important social relations, by virtue of the status of mandatory rules of conduct of the subjects of such relations and the responsibility for violating those rules. As a result of this definition, the Supreme Council of Ukraine can regulate any of the most important social relations. A list of the most important issues that are identified or established exclusively by Ukraine’s laws is enshrined in article 92 of the Constitution of Ukraine. At the same time, the main law of the State establishes a list of issues related to the knowledge of the President, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which are regulated by the issuance of relevant legislation, including legislation. Further, substantial work needs to be done on the other terms of article 1 of the law, such as the rule of law, the collegiate norm, and so forth. It calls for a note and a legislative approach to defining the types, forms and hierarchy of legal acts. First of all, the formation of a section of the second article 6 of the law, which refers the Constitution to ordinary laws, is not in line with the laws and codes of Ukraine. The remark calls for the provision of article 7, paragraph 1, of the first part of the law, by which the law amending the Constitution becomes an integral part of the Constitution after it becomes effective. The introduction of such a provision makes it impossible to challenge the constitutionality of the Act amending the Constitution of Ukraine to the Constitutional Court, which is in accordance with articles 147, 150 and 152 of the Constitution of Ukraine and the Constitutional Court’s decision of 26 June 2008 in the case of the authorization of the Constitutional Court. Section 3 of the first article 7 of the Act establishes the same legal force for the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Presidential decrees and decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers. This does not correspond to part three of article 113 of the Constitution. In paragraph 4 of the first part of article 7 of the law, among the acts on the basis of which orders, orders, decisions of the Ministry and other central executive bodies are not taken or enforced?? The Supreme Council of Ukraine, which is governed by the Constitution of Ukraine in its activities. In particular, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine as a higher body in the system of executive bodies. The approach proposed by article 7 is also unacceptable, according to which decisions of ministries and other central executive authorities have a higher legal power than those of other government authorities. The objection is to strengthen the possibility of issuing regulations to administrations, departments, other structural units of local government administrations. Because they are not self - controlled subjects of government, their competence is derived from the authority of the body to which they belong. Article 6 of the law, which came upon the signature of the decisions of the All-U.S. referendums, was referred to as the legal regulations. Those who do not conform to article 118, part 8, of the Constitution, which defines the subjects of the rule of law of local public administrations are the provisions of article 3, paragraph 10, of the law, by which local government administrations are designated as the subject of the law. Part one of the first article 4 allows for the determination of cases of delegation of regulatory powers by legislation and thus by regulations. This approach also does not meet the standards of part two of article 6 of part two of article 19 of the Constitution of Ukraine. The law under consideration will be of practical interest if its implementation in the future is able to resolve the problematic issues that arise in the practice of standards and standards of application. Such issues directly include the question of the low quality of the legal standards laid down. Section H of the Law deals with the requirements of standard design techniques. In doing so, the law lays down general requirements, as well as requirements for text, terminology, style, structure and constituents of a legal act. At the same time, the provisions of this section are devoid of the mechanism of implementation and therefore are not of regulatory importance, since the legal consequences of breaching the standardization requirements in the drafting process of the draft legislative act are not provided for in the law at all. By the way, the law doesn't meet the rules of standardization, which it does. In particular, to violate the requirements of this law, as set out in section C, the law duplicates the rules of law contained in other legal instruments; its text is not clear, clear, clear, concise, compact and consistent. The requirements for terminology, the content of the Final and Transitional Regulations have been violated. The principles of observation also give rise to the position of the law that regulates the issue of the normative process. For example, along with the other introduction of mandatory legal expertise by the Ministry of Justice of draft laws, the President’s decrees. This is about, and this is provided for in article 35, paragraph 1, of the first article, article 37 of the law, which limits the constitutionally defined powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, of the national deputies of Ukraine, of the President of Ukraine as the subject of the legislative process, because it makes them dependent on one of the central executive bodies. Similarly, the law on the introduction of mandatory financial and economic expertise on draft legislation by the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economics of Ukraine has been established. It cannot be agreed with the law as a mandatory step in the normative process of introducing a standard-setting proposal to a natural and legal person, since such an approach precludes the possibility of developing a draft legal act on its own as a rule-of-law subject, including directly by the national deputies of Ukraine. It raises objections and the proposed drafting of article 31, paragraph 3, of the law, from which it follows that, according to the mandate of the entities, regulatory acts should necessarily be developed by any enterprise, institution, organization or natural person. Nor can we agree with article 45, section 3, of the law which prohibits the issuance of joint legal acts by several entities. He needs to be brought into absolute conformity with article 94, part 1, of the Constitution, under which the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine signs the law and immediately directs it to the President of Ukraine, part 1 of article 47 of the law which stipulates that the law is signed by the Head of the Supreme Council no later than three days after its adoption and sent it to the President of Ukraine. It should also be noted that this provision refers specifically to the working order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which, in accordance with articles 83 and 92 of the Constitution of Ukraine, is established by the Constitution and the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, which are to be adopted as law and not by other laws. It calls for denial of the concept of the law on content, procedure, the consequences of the state registration of legal acts, their inclusion in a single national register. In particular, the law allows the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine to postpone the validity of acts issued in accordance with the Constitution and laws of Ukraine, in particular the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the President, who do not respond to it, to the position of the Ministry of Justice and the Constitution of Ukraine. Article 55 of the Act, which regulates the procedure for access to information contained in the Single State Register of Regulatory Acts, does not take into account that the laws of Ukraine may impose restrictions on access to certain types of information. Such restrictions have already been established by the Information Act of Ukraine, the State Secret. It is not possible to accept the proposed legal way of dealing with issues of official publication and the official publication of legal acts, which are, inter alia, provided for in articles 56, 57 of the Act. In particular, part four of article 56 of the law provides that Ukrainian laws are officially promulgated within 15 days of their adoption and signature by the President of Ukraine. The law clearly regulates, not explicitly, the ratio of official publication and official publication of the legal act. [[completed]] The provisions of part seven of article 61 of the Law limit the exercise by subjects of a standardization of their own acts in such a way that they have become invalid, a comprehensive list of conditions. The establishment of such restrictions does not correspond to the Constitution, as it does not contain any conditions for the implementation by the relevant entities of the rule of law in the implementation of the powers conferred on them by the Basic Law State. Part of article 61 provides that the President of Ukraine may by decree suspend action.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u48	Please finish, Marina Ivanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u49	legal acts of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in cases provided for by both the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. This does not correspond to article 106, paragraph 15, of the Constitution of Ukraine, under which the only condition for the implementation of the said powers is the existence of a motive for the inadequacy of an act of government only by the Constitution of Ukraine. The country’s distinguished national deputies are a number of other observations. In particular, one of the important points concerns the possibility, in accordance with Article 72 of the Act, of providing official clarifications of the legal instrument or its separate rules by the subject of the rule of law in respect of its own legal act. It should be noted that the official explanations are not limited to the official interpretation of a legislative and regulatory act, which is clearly defined as the mandate of the sole body of constitutional jurisdiction in Ukraine, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. It's important to note. That the law, which should practically be a model, is actually a norm-designing technique, as has already been pointed out, needs substantial technical and legal work. Under such circumstances, the President of Ukraine proposes to reject the Law on Normative Laws, such as that does not comply with the Constitution of Ukraine and does not introduce a single conceptual approach to resolving issues related to the system, species and hierarchy of legal acts, the development of quality drafts of legislation, their adoption, their taking effect and their national registration. Please support the position of the Head of State.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u50	Is there a question for Marina Ivanovna?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u51	Please sign in. Yavrovsky Vladimir Alexandrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u52	Vladimir Yavorowski, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Your Honor, it is clear that the President is reaching out for the last round under the name of "The President's Veto". And I think at this point the Supreme Council is going to demonstrate that it's not just blindly overcoming the President's veto, because in the comments you've made, there's really a lot of right. In particular, the committee head – the representative of the Yulia Timoshenko bloc – will say this. And with a few more minutes, I'd like to go to the law that we just passed, just to get people to know: there's one very unpleasant thing going on in Ukraine -- it's actually from the frequency of Ukraine that National Radio and Television is being pushed out, and frequencies are being transmitted to mobile phones. It's a huge danger. We're actually at the edge, we've actually almost lost the perimeter of Ukraine today, and people don't hear any more Ukrainian radio or Ukrainian television -- a huge problem that we have to turn to.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u53	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u54	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Marina Ivanovna, on the other hand, is being built, people are building a house, and then instead of remodeling something in this building, they decide that nothing that they've been building for a couple of years, nothing that they've spent a lot of effort, and let's just destroy it to the ground, and then we'll build something new one day. And they don't say what we're going to build there. That is, there is a great deal of rightness in today’s proposals. It's amazing. I counted the committee's proposal to take into account the President's 10 amendments. Ten. It's the committee's proposal for. Almost a year's work. And I can see that maybe you could agree with most of the amendments, but I definitely don't want all the work to go to waste. It's a serious law. Whose document, and I'd like to be constructive. I wanted to ask you how you feel about us meeting each other right now, that is.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u55	Please, Marina Ivanovna, answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u56	Dear Yuri Anatoliyovich, I feel that Ukraine needs a law that regulates the legal relationship associated with adoption. Development, adoption, publication, registration of legislation in Ukraine. It is clear to me that this law was passed by the Supreme Council on October 1, 2008, which is more than that. more than a year from now. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Supreme Council has returned to the adoption of this law one year and a month after its promise by the President of Ukraine. Of course, it is perfectly clear to me that the vast majority of the President's proposals on this matter are normative. the law has a very constructive and specific character aimed at bringing it into conformity with the Constitution of Ukraine. Of course, in the position of the Supreme Council on taking into account a small number of proposals by the President of Ukraine, it is entirely possible to adopt and manage the relevant law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u57	Thank you, Marina Ivanovna. Have a seat, please. A report from the committee. Head of committee Mishchenko Sergey Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u58	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues, citizens of Ukraine! Indeed, the Committee on Legal Policy has dealt with all the President's comments and suggestions to this law. Well, first of all, I would like to thank the author of this bill for the fact that, really, like our colleague Carmazin said, the house is built. And that's why we can't have a few bricks out of this house that have to be repaired, made completely so that it's not suitable for housing. So the committee has considered that, in fact, the President's proposals that he made, which relate to the main issues in this law, are the right ones to support. But we will need to vote again in favour of this bill in accordance with article 135, paragraph 6, of the Supreme Council Rules. And we need 300 votes for that. Therefore, I would like to interfere with the fact that, with such provisions as the recognition of heads of local government administrations as the subject of the rule of law, the granting to heads of local state administrations the right to rule of law, the possibility of delegation of legislative powers is excluded in cases defined by law; the reference to legal regulations of local referendums, the addition of paragraph 4 of the first part of article 7 of the law, according to which decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine should be subject to the provisions of the first article 94 of the Constitution of the Ukraine, or to the law of the former article 47 of the law on the signing of the Supreme Council of the Rule of Law, the decision of the ministries and the other central authorities; the addition of the law to the law of the second section of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Kingdom of the former part 47 of the law and the law on the signing of the Supreme Council of the Constitution of the Constitution of the State of the rule of the law of the law of the State of the State of the Republic of the Law of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republicof And a series of other comments. So the committee proposes to follow up on all the President's proposals, where, indeed, it is appropriate and necessary to take these proposals into account, vote in favour of these proposals by the President, and others do not support and ultimately vote in favour of this law by three hundred votes. So please consider the decision and support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u59	Is there a question for a co-conspirator?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u60	Please sign in. Cibenko Peter Stepanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u61	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear reporter, I would like you to clarify the position of the committee, because in your words I see certain, certain contradictions. First, you propose for certain Presidential proposals to vote and then to vote on the 300-vote document. So the point is that you're proposing a new law edition, that's one approach. If you propose to vote three hundred votes, it's a veto. So what does that mean? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u62	Thank you for asking. In response to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, part of the sixth article of the 135th Rules says that if the Supreme Council partially supports the President's proposals, it must overcome the veto and adopt the new law with three hundred votes, it is the sixth part of 135. This procedure is clearly described there, so the committee, in accordance with this article, made its decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u63	Dear Peter Stepanovich, I'll make it clear. The rules provide absolutely logical two actions. After partial consideration of the President's proposals, if the Supreme Council adopts a majority of the constitutional composition, a new law is adopted, which is sent to the head of state, and he considers it necessary. And the second option is, if the proposals of the Head of State are partially accepted, and according to what the Head of the Committee has just quoted, two thirds of the constitutional composition is voted on. It is believed that after this, the veto has been overtaken, taking into account part of the President's proposals. This is recorded in Article 135 of the Rules. Please, Final Vladimir Leontievitch. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u64	Yuri Carmazin. I'd like to ask you. Agreeing in general with the suggestions you have made, which you do not think are purely theoretical and in many ways completely controversial. Well, for example, for example, we have a scientific and expert office that says that we should agree with the head of state's remark on the legal inadequacy of the constitutionalization of Ukraine in the category of laws. And it refers to the legal position of the Constitutional Court, constitutional scientists and so on. In view of this, I see that part of it needs to be taken into account, that the law should be passed in a new order. And how do you see the definition in this case of the Constitution?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u65	Thank you for asking. In fact, the proposals of both the President and the proposals of scientific and scientific management coincide in some way, in some way complement each other. So we looked at the committee and consulted with the drafter of the bill that the proposals that are really necessary for practical implementation in the legal environment should be taken into account. And those who have a controversial nature between a number of legal organizations or professionals remain behind the bonds of this bill. That's why you know the phrase, "where two lawyers are three thoughts."
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u66	Crnowil Taras Viacheslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u67	Dear reporter! In principle, the basic answer to my question has already been given, and that was also a question asked by the national deputy of Cibenko, and I have an additional one. We're going to take some of the President's proposals, then we're going to try to take three votes, if there's a committee position, if all of a sudden we have a low attendance in the room, and what's not enough can be enough votes to take two thirds, and we're going to take it as a whole. Is there a committee position that in such a case, you can go back and look at it in the new edition with 226 votes and correct. So we don't lose the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u68	Thank you for asking a very good question, because the drafter of the bill and in general a lot of experts and the Ministry, including, justice, have worked on this bill for more than a year. And that's why we can now, if we don't vote for the committee's decision, just bury this bill and for many years as it moved, as it reached its final decision today. Therefore, if we fail to support this decision today, the veto will not be overpowered and the law will not take place. So once again, there's going to be a new path, so someone is going to give you a new bill, a new draft, they're going to go through all the procedures again, and then they're going to report back to you on the new bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u69	Karpuk Vladimir Georgievich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u70	Vladimir Karpuk, MP “For Ukraine!” Dear Sergey Grigorovich! Such an impression is that what the President's proposals are rejected, if there are really some political motives. And I want to go back to the question that Yuri Anatoliyevich asked you about the inadequacy of the constitutionalization of Ukraine in the laws of Ukraine that the President made, that's the proposal of the fifth, and with which the Scientific and Experimental Authority agrees, and there is an appropriate decision of the Constitutional Court. Because the interpretations and the explanations that you're giving, they're dissatisfied, I think a lot of people should go back to these proposals, and be more thoughtful about their analysis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u71	Thank you for asking. I can say that if lawyers who have studied in a legal institution, they know an object such as the “Basics of State and Law”. So this law, consider it a textbook, “The foundations of state and law” not only for students, but also for the Supreme Council, for deputies, for those officials who will use it. So that's the first answer. Second answer. I'm sure you have to decide with every amendment that's rejected by the committee that's supported. So you have to put everyone to a vote, get 226 votes, if the 5th amendment goes through in the hall, it's clear that the Supreme Council will support it. So this is going to be the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u72	Klukkowski Yuri Bogdanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u73	Thank you. Yuri Klukkowski, “Our Ukraine”. First of all, I would be very afraid to make a textbook by law, because knowing the textbooks of state and law theory, I know that there are no two identical ones. This means choosing one of them and getting into conflict with all the others. I'm not sure the Supreme Council should do that. Moreover, I would like to remind you that the status of illegality and unconstitutionality are two different statuses that have very different consequences, including with regard to the jurisdiction of the courts. However, I would like to ask you a question about another, on page 39 of the comparative table in the eighth part of the 56th article in the left column and in the right column there are different texts. I'd like to understand whose amendment this is. Moreover, the text in the right column contradicts article 49, part seven, of the same law. This is about when acts of local self-government are published, it is written on the left: “after acceptance and signature” and on the right “after state registration”.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u74	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u75	However, article 49 provides that acts of local self - government are made independent of their national registration. So they have to be published independently of government registration. So I would suggest that at least this amendment be put to the vote in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u76	Thank you for asking, Yuri Bogdanovich. As far as textbooks are concerned. The law is not a textbook. These are the authors of the bill that are getting better, that there is today in this matter, that they have compiled into this bill. So speaking unethically about some textbooks, that's the law. This is a bill that stands today in the vote. As far as individual rights are concerned, I would like to encourage you to go through all 39 amendments, not just on this 30th right. That is why the Supreme Council should decide whether to vote in favour of or reject this amendment. Hence, it will certainly be set up, as will all 39.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u77	Strtovic Volodymir Mikolajovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u78	Vladimir Stretović, Christian-Democratic Union, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" faction. Dear colleagues! This law refers to the number of constitutionals and was developed, think of it, back in 1997. For 12 years, the Ukrainian Parliament could not accept a document that would help in law enforcement. So I have a proposal that comes out of the debate, because we have a working body -- the Committee on Legal Policy -- and he's taken into account some of the amendments, the right remarks of the President, to vote in favour of this law as a whole in the new edition, and if this is more than 300 votes, it's going to be a signal to the guarantor of the Constitution that he should publish it, because part of the amendments are included. At the same time, I can't help but mention the low quality of some of the remarks made by the Secretary of the President, they just don't fit into the logic of the legal and legislative process. So since there is no limit to human improvement, let's put a dot today by voting once again in favour of the draft bill proposed by the committee, thus saving our precious time and giving our lives.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u79	Thank you. Let us turn to the proposals of the President of Ukraine. That was not the question, that was the motive for making a decision. Please stay in the rostrum. Dear colleagues, please take a table so we don't read every proposal by the President of Ukraine. Please, page two, the President of Ukraine's first proposal, the committee recommends that it be disregarded. The President of Ukraine's first proposal is for a vote, please be determined. [[11:26:21]] For the 18th. The offer is not supported. Proposal No. 2 of the President of Ukraine on page 3 is put to the vote. The committee recommends not to count, please specify [[11:26:47]] For the 17th. The President's proposal is not supported. On page six of President Three's proposal, the Committee recommends that it be taken into account. The President's motion is put to the vote, please identify yourself. [[11:27:19]] For 233 The President's proposal is supported. On the same page, the fourth proposal of the President of Ukraine, the committee proposes to take it into account. The vote is on proposal number four. I'd like to make a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u80	Vote. [[11:27:49]] For 269 The President of Ukraine's proposal is supported. On page 7 of the 5th proposal of the President of Ukraine, the profile committee suggests not to be taken into account. The President of Ukraine's proposal is for a vote. I'd like to make a statement. One second, take the vote off! Take off the vote, please. On the grounds of the vote, please, National Deputy Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u81	Yuri Karmazin, distinguished national MPs, Honourable Alexander Volodymyrovich, Sergey Grigorovitch! The Preamble of the Constitution states: “Adopts this Constitution, the Basic Law of Ukraine”. Perhaps we should listen to the President's suggestions, and instead of being “refused” we should write where the laws are: The Constitution of Ukraine is the Basic Law of Ukraine. And it's basically the same thing, it's completely consistent with the Constitution, we're taking down all the conversations on this subject. And all the authors of the textbooks are satisfied, and it completely corresponds to the literally text of the Constitution, which I'm here, you probably have in front of you as well as I do. Thank you. But that's what I'd suggest. What do you think, please? Has this been discussed?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u82	I think it is precisely with this amendment that I agree with the words “Basic Law”. Just as the Constitution is the Basic Law. That's the law, but the Basic Law, and that's it. I think that this proposal, Yuri Anatoliovich, can be accepted.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u83	We can add an additional word now, but, with the rest, it's in the proposal of the President of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u84	Ukraine, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u85	It is contained in the 5th proposal of the President of Ukraine, because the Constitution is the basic law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u86	By law, yes. It's six, not five, six, six.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u87	This is the fifth proposal made by the President of Ukraine on page 7.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u88	After the word “Constitution of Ukraine” add “Basic Law”.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u89	After the words “Constitution of Ukraine”, add “Basic Law”.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u90	I think we can agree.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u91	I mean, this. I think it's going to be us taking into account a partial proposal from the President of Ukraine. That's exactly what the President of Ukraine's proposal is for. The Constitution of Ukraine is the Basic Law of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u92	We vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u93	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u94	For. [[11:30:35]] For 294 This edition is supported. The sixth proposal of the President of Ukraine on page 8 of the Committee does not recommend counting. The President of Ukraine's proposal is for a vote. I'd like to make a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u95	We don't vote. [[11:31:04]] For the 18th. The offer is not supported. Proposal No. 7 of the President of Ukraine on the same page recommends that the committee consider. There's a motion for a vote. I'd like to make a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u96	Vote. For. Look at Chechtchev. [[11:31:29]] For 290 The President's proposal is supported. Proposal No. 8 of the President of Ukraine on page 9, the committee proposes to consider. Proposal No. 8 of the President of Ukraine takes the vote. I'd like to make a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u97	Yeah. For. [[11:32:00]] For 313 The President's proposal is supported. Please, for reasons of vote, Stretovich Vladimir Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u98	Dear colleagues, if you pay attention, the decision of the local referendums is number 11, and the decision of the local council is before that. If you step out of law, you have to switch places, because local referendums have predominant meaning over local councils' decisions, so in the final text of the law you have to switch places to the tenth position of the local referendums, and the 11th position of the local councils and their implementing bodies. It doesn't change the essence of the law, but technically it will be right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u99	It's a question of editing, it doesn't need a vote. Proposal No. 9 of the President of Ukraine. The committee does not recommend taking it into account. She's voting. Wait a second. On the basis of the vote, the People's MP Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u100	Thank you. Yuri Klukkowski, “Our Ukraine”. Dear colleagues, there's a fineness. The fact that the Constitution of Ukraine provides for the possibility of an unconstitutional law amending the Constitution of Ukraine in connection with a violation established by the Constitution of the procedure for its adoption. The rule in the first paragraph prohibits what is provided by the Constitution of Ukraine. If this rule were not to be the subject of a complaint before the Constitutional Court, I would suggest that the President's remarks be taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u101	Presidential remarks No. 9 put the vote to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. The committee recommends not to take into account. [[11:34:05]] For-29 The President's proposal is not supported. Proposal number 10 of the President of Ukraine on page 10. The committee does not recommend accounting. The President of Ukraine's proposal is for a vote. One second. We're taking down the vote. For the reasons of the people’s deputy Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, I'd like to take a look at the motivation of the deviation. In principle, what the motivation says is right. But there remains a question raised by the President. And what relative legal power do the Supreme Council decrees, Presidential decrees and decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers have? Indeed, the President is right. Because the decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers are also issued for the execution of Presidential decrees and decrees of the Supreme Council. Yet the text of the law does not say anything about their relationship with one another.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u103	Proposal No. 10 of the President of Ukraine will be put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u104	They also, the preceding paragraphs, Yuri Borisovich, put out this agreement among these bills. [[11:35:23]] Z-11. The offer is not supported. President of Ukraine's 11th proposal on page 10. The committee suggests that we take it into account. The number 11 proposal is for voting. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:35:48]] For 264 Offer supported. President of Ukraine's 12th proposal on page 11. The committee recommends that we consider it. The proposal is for a vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:36:16]] For 274 The President's proposal is supported. Offer number 13 on page 12. The committee recommends that we consider it. Presidential proposal No. 13 puts the vote to the vote. [[11:36:46]] For 276 Offer supported. Proposal No. 14 of the President of Ukraine on page 12. The committee recommends that we consider it. Proposal No. 14 of the President of Ukraine puts the vote to a vote. [[11:37:11]] For 293 The President's proposal is supported. Proposal No. 15 of the President of Ukraine on page 14. The committee recommends a rejection. The President of Ukraine's proposal is for a vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:37:41]] For-33 The proposal is not supported. Proposal number 16 of the President of Ukraine on page 16. The committee's proposing a rejection. The proposal is for a vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:38:07]] For-23 The offer is not supported. 17th President of Ukraine’s proposal on page 21. The committee recommends a rejection. The proposal is for a vote. One second, take the vote off. On the basis of the vote, the People's MP Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u105	Dear colleagues, I ask you to note that if this rule is voted and becomes law, the Supreme Council will be in violation of this law systematically, because the very first stage is not in the Supreme Council, there is no planning for norm-making. And no act to plan norm-making activity is taken by the Supreme Council. So I don't know why we're doing this. What are we going to do about it?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u106	I can answer that question. Yuri Borisovich, for that reason, we are also adopting this law and this amendment, as it will be in the article, this is the impulse for the leaders of the Supreme Council to work in such a way that the Supreme Council's apparatus is designed to be implemented. And now we're going to talk about what it's not going to do, but we have to control that it's being done by the Supreme Council's apparatus.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u107	Dear colleagues, there's no need for discussion here, because it's about normative acts, and so many of them are bylaws, different types and varieties, in this case it's not just about laws. Proposal No. 17 of the President of Ukraine is for a vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:40:02]] For-13. The offer is not supported. Proposal No. 18 of the President of Ukraine on page 22. Please, the keynote speaker, Yuri Bogdanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, I have great respect for the right of every person, both physical and legal, to think about what legal acts are needed. But I seriously question the establishment of a new institution -- a standard-setting proposal that anyone can make. [[Think about it!]] This will mean a very serious step in bringing chaos into the norm - building business. Notice, this is a standard-setting proposal, it's part of the norm-making activity. Well, let's not even legalize them. Let's talk about everyone's right to turn around, but it's not a norm yet.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u109	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u110	Yuri Bogdanovich, it can be called whatever -- the initiative of issuing regulations, laws or whatever. The question in another is that we give to our civil society what it can offer. But there's no question that someone's taking back the legislative activity and the proposals for the enforcement and the passing of laws. This remains the Supreme Council, the President and the Cabinet of Ministers, and no one else as a legal entity is involved. So I don't see any problems with this proposal here.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u111	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u112	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the committee is perfectly correct in rejecting this proposal, absolutely correct. This rule was voted on in the first, second reading, because the right of citizens to appeal, as guaranteed by the Constitution, can only be exercised in this way. By the way, it is also guaranteed by the law on the conversion of citizens, which is not being enforced by anyone in the State today. Nothing at all. Starting with the President, the Supreme Council and so forth, and the deputies. That's right. In the second part of article 29, it is stated that a direct appeal to the subject requires a proper response to the subject of a standard - making proposal, that is, a citizen. And that's why this law emphasizes once again that the main person we have is a citizen. I propose to reject the offer, and the committee did the right thing, I think. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u113	Proposal No. 18 of the President of Ukraine puts the vote to a vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:43:27]] Z-11. The President's proposal is not supported. President of Ukraine's 19th proposal on page 23. The committee recommends a rejection. The President of Ukraine's proposal is for a vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:43:53]] For-13. The offer is not supported. President of Ukraine's 20th proposal on page 25. The committee recommends a rejection. Please, for reasons of vote, the People's Deputy of Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u114	I would simply like to explain, for it is totally unclear, for for example, that the Ukrainian national deputy is the subject of the norm or the structural unit of the subject of the norm. Or is he not entitled to design projects? Because the subject of standardization is the Supreme Council, as I understand it. The units are committees and commissions. Who's the deputy?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u115	The National Deputy of Ukraine is the subject of a legislative initiative that can prepare draft legislation such as the laws of Ukraine or the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Proposal No. 20 of the President of Ukraine takes the vote. Please be sure. [[11:45:08]] For-16 The proposal is not supported. 21 The President of Ukraine’s proposal on page 26 The committee recommends a rejection. The proposal is for a vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:45:35]] For the 15th. The offer is not supported. 22 The President of Ukraine’s proposal on page 27 The committee recommends a rejection. Puts the vote to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:46:00]] For the 15th. The offer is not supported. 23 The President of Ukraine’s proposal on page 28. The committee recommends a rejection. The President of Ukraine's proposal is for a vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:46:26]] For -14 The proposal is not supported. 24 The President of Ukraine’s proposal on page 29 The committee recommends a rejection. On the basis of the vote, the People's MP Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u116	Thank you. I ask you to note that the motivation for deviation is false. The standard proposed in the text is imperative. “The Ministry of Justice conducts” rather than “can conduct”. Hence, what is written that this is not compulsory is not the case. I have great respect for the Ministry of Justice as an extremely competent body. But the principle of the distribution of power is enshrined in the Constitution. And if all the bills under consideration by the Supreme Council were to go to Minsk for expertise, that would mean simply violating the principles of the legislative process.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u117	Proposal No. 24 of the President of Ukraine puts the vote to a vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:47:42]] For the 17th. 24 offers are not supported. The 25th proposal of the President of Ukraine on page 30 recommends that the committee reject. For reasons of vote, the national MP Klukkowski Yuri Bogdanovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u118	Thank you very much. But here you already agree that the text says "compulsory" and again this means that the Supreme Council cannot consider drafts without an expert opinion from the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economics? Well, colleagues, that's the constitutional principle of power distribution, isn't it, do we follow it or not? Well, believe me, these are the rules that are simply asked to refer to the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u119	Yuri Borisovich. It's okay, isn't it?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u120	Please, Sergey Grigorovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u121	Yeah, yeah, Bogdanovich, yeah, I'm sorry. Yuri Bogdanovich, you know, those bills that are currently being considered in the Supreme Council that require the conclusion of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economics, so the committee, right, the committee needs these conclusions. He uses these conclusions to see whether it really is necessary or necessary. There's a budget or an economic advantage to this bill, or it's going to go to waste. I don't see any problem here if an additional expertise in this regard allows us to solve the issue in the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u122	I don't have any problems, I don't see any problems.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u123	Proposal No. 25 of the President of Ukraine is to vote. I'd like to make a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u124	It doesn't give us any more expertise.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u125	There's a vote coming. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[11:49:31]] For-13. The offer is not supported. 26 President of Ukraine's proposal on page 32, the committee recommends that it be rejected. The President of Ukraine's proposal is for a vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:49:58]] For-12. The offer is not supported. 27th President of Ukraine’s proposal on page 33. The committee recommends that we consider it. Do you object to counting? Please, for reasons of vote, the People's Deputy of Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u126	I want to go back to the President's 26th proposal. I'd just like to ask a simple question to the head of the legal committee. After this law has been passed, what will happen to those laws that have already been issued in common today? What's going to happen to those different laws that require the joint issuance of legislation? Please tell me, what are the legal consequences of what we just voted on?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u127	Thank you, Yuri Bogdanovich. The 27th proposal of the President of Ukraine, which the committee recommends to take into account, is a vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:51:17]] For 284 Offer supported. 28th proposal by the President of Ukraine. The committee recommends a rejection. Please, the microphone of the People's Deputy of Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u128	Once again, I have questions about legislation issued by local governments. No legal act in force today and, by the way, this law does not provide for their national registration. Yet there are no exceptions. And it is predicted that only when the register has assigned a number can it be published, will the registration of acts of local self - government be carried out underground. But this does not correspond to the Constitution, the Law on Local Self - Government, or the Charter of Europe on Local Self - Government.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u129	Dear Yuri Bogdanovich, laws are not adopted underground, they are accepted publicly, and if it is approved by Parliament, it will be the law. Proposal No. 28 of the President of Ukraine, recommended by the committee to reject the vote. Please identify yourself. [[11:52:44]] For-23 The proposal is not supported. On page 37, the Committee recommends that the proposal of the President of Ukraine be rejected. The President of Ukraine's proposal is for a vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:53:14]] For -14 The proposal is not supported. The 30th proposal of the President of Ukraine on page 38 of the Committee recommends that it be rejected. Please microphone of the Stretovich People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u130	Dear colleagues! I return you to the ones raised by Yuri Klukkowski, if you look at 39 pages, and it says: “The legal and legal acts of the Supreme Council, the ARC and local self-government authorities shall be published within 15 days of their adoption and signature.” And in the right column, "after their state registration." But local self - government authorities can take operational measures, such as the spread of epidemics, the use of measures, and the state’s registration can take months. That's the first one. And the second. We need to get as much out of the law as possible, and here we're creating corruption, because the act that needed local self-government needs to be followed up by a state registration, and it's required. So I would like to accept this amendment and leave it in the first column, the left column, after acceptance and signature. And to remove the proposal that's included in the right column, it's inappropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u131	Yes. We agree. I think that's really a good offer and we have to accept that proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u132	Proposal No. 30 of the President of Ukraine. Please, National Deputy Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u133	Dear colleagues, what Vladimir Stretovich said is absolutely right, but this is not about the president's amendment, it's a different subject, they're not related. So what's in the eighth, the right column, should be voted on, and the President's amendment should be voted on separately.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u134	Amendment 30 of the President of Ukraine shall be subject to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:55:25]] For 266 Correction supported. 31 Amendment of the President of Ukraine, page 42. The committee recommends a rejection. President 31's proposal is to vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:56:11]] For-19 The President's proposal is not supported. On page 43, the Committee recommends that the proposal of the President of Ukraine be rejected. The President of Ukraine's proposal is for a vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:56:38]] For the 15th. The President's proposal is not supported. 33 The President of Ukraine’s proposal on page 44 The committee recommends a rejection. The President's proposal is for a vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:57:04]] For -8 The offer is not supported. 34th President of Ukraine's proposal on page 45. The committee recommends a rejection. The President of Ukraine's proposal is for a vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:57:30.]] For-13. The offer is not supported. President of Ukraine's 35th proposal on page 47. The committee recommends a rejection. The President of Ukraine's proposal is for a vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:57:54]] For-13. The offer is not supported. 36. President of Ukraine's proposal on page 49. The committee recommends a rejection. The President of Ukraine's proposal is for a vote. [[11:58:21]] Z-11. The offer is not supported. 37 President of Ukraine's proposal on page 50. The committee recommends that we consider it. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:58:48]] For 279 Decision taken. Offer supported. 38. President of Ukraine's proposal on page 52. The committee recommends a rejection. The President of Ukraine's proposal is for a vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:59:16]] For-16 The offer is not supported. 39th President of Ukraine’s proposal on page 53. The committee recommends a rejection. The President of Ukraine's proposal is for a vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:59:44]] For-23 The President's proposal is not supported. Dear colleagues, head of the committee and national deputies of Ukraine. Honorary colleagues, committee head and national deputies of Ukraine have proposed to return to President of Ukraine's proposal number 26. Who's in favour of this proposal, please vote. Go back to 26th. [[12:00:28]] For 285 We're back to the hearing. Please make a motion for amendment to President 26, National Deputy Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u135	Yuri Carmazin. I'm sorry, Alexander Volodymyrovich. The point is, with the validity of this law, which will certainly be good and I am convinced that the President will sign it, we can immediately do so by losing the validity and numerous instructions, orders, whether the Security Service, the Ministry, the Hen Prosecutor's Office, or the fact that the Law on the Election of People's Deputies on the Central Election Commission is in common with Minfin, the State Treasury, the Nutzbank and so on. So this third paragraph, which is in article 45, has to be deleted, as envisaged by the President's 26th proposal. So I would like to ask the committee head to express what the attitude is to taking into account amendment 26 of the President, and I urge all the national deputies to support this amendment, and it will be a very good, balanced law that we have and normal full cooperation with the President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u136	Klukkowski Yuri Bogdanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u137	But I can only repeat the argument made by my colleague Yuri Karmazin, there are many cases today where joint acts are taken when the problem lies with the acquisition of the powers of several central executive authorities. No individual can solve this problem. Moreover, several laws explicitly provide for the adoption of joint regulations, such as election laws. If we want now, let's say the order of opening the electoral fund accounts is declared invalid, let's keep the rule of non-counselling. Because this order is established jointly by the CFC and the National Bank.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u138	It's all right. We've already voted for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u139	Dear colleagues, we have returned to the 26th proposal of the President of Ukraine, and we have listened to the arguments. In fact, the committee correctly states that the Constitution of Ukraine does not provide for the adoption of acts jointly by several bodies. But in addition to this, we have not only such acts but not only those provided for in the laws, but also the prohibition of such acts is not available. That is why we are right now to make the decision that the Supreme Council considers appropriate. From my point of view, we can fully agree with the President of Ukraine on this issue. President 26 of Ukraine's proposal is to vote. Please be supportive. [[From the hall. For.]] [[12:03:29]] For 290 President 26's proposal is in place. Please, Sergey Grigorovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u140	Yeah. And lastly, we need to go back to article 56, which is the official publication of the legal acts of paragraph 8. I'm asking for the right offer that Yuri Bogdanovich doesn't have? Yuri Bogdanovich, under the transcript, and vote for her.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u141	Dear colleagues, there is no need to vote because we must have the text that was approved in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And because we didn't take into account the President's proposal to change that text, so.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u142	Not counting, no, 30 proposals from the President of Ukraine were taken into account, right? What's your offer?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u143	Under the transcript, please, Yuri Bogdanovich, paragraph 8 read under the transcript. Because this is a new question that is not a matter of the President's proposal. We voted on the President’s proposals, and a new issue arose because we voted on the President’s proposals.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u144	There is nothing to read here, since there is a text adopted by law. Please, Marina Ivanovna Stavniczuk, your point of view on this colossal issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u145	Alexander Volodymyrovich, I would like to take into account what the President's 30th amendment really is, but it is not in the very proposal of the President of State Registration, which appears in the text of the final version of the law. And I'm paying attention to you, honourable national MPs, that this is a formal basis for further the President's promise. Therefore, please settle this matter in accordance with the Rules. [[th m in s a l i]]
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u146	Dear Marina Ivanovna, a respected colleague, since this position was not in the law approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, is not in amendment 30, which was taken into account by the Ukrainian national deputies, so it is absolutely editorial, it cannot appear because there were no such proposals and we did not support them. That is why there is no such thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u147	It is not in the original, but in the editorial, which was approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the law, which referred to the signature of the President of Ukraine. So we've considered all of the President's amendments, whether we've made the appropriate decisions on whether or not we've made them. I ask you to prepare for the vote now. The Ukrainian Act on legal and regulatory acts of Ukraine shall be put to the vote. [[Registration number 1343]] [[taking into account part of the remarks made by the President of Ukraine]] Please be sure. [[12:07:00]] For 366 Decision taken. As part of article 135, we expect Ukraine’s President to sign this law. Dear colleagues, a break of up to 12 hours is announced for 38 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u148	A draft Law on the Ratification of the Treaty between Ukraine and the Syrian Arab Republic on the Legal Consequences of Relationship and Mutual Legal Assistance in Civil and Criminal Matters is under consideration. Registration number 0144. Report to Justice Minister Oneichuk Mikola Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u149	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! Your opinion is proposed for ratification of the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Agreement, the Treaty between Ukraine and the Syrian Arab Republic on Legal Relations and Mutual Legal Assistance in Civil and Criminal Matters. I would like to point out that we and the Syrian Arab Republic, despite the fact that there are enough intensive trade and economic relations, are in fact not available today both bilateral and multilateral agreements that deal with mutual legal assistance. And that's why the corresponding agreement between Syria and Ukraine was signed on October 8th last year. And today it is proposed for ratification. It is noteworthy that the purpose of this bilateral treaty is to establish effective cooperation between the courts of Ukraine and Syria in the provision of mutual legal assistance in civil matters, as well as to create appropriate legal grounds for the interaction of the authorities, the investigating authorities of the two countries in the event of the need to provide assistance in criminal proceedings or criminal proceedings. The competent authorities of Ukraine, which are to act on behalf of the country, on behalf of the government, particularly the Office of the Attorney-General, when it comes to questions in criminal matters or questions at the stage of judicial investigation and the Ministry of Justice, when it comes to the provision of legal assistance in civil matters, in particular civil matters. Dear colleagues, it is obvious that ratification is necessary for proper legal security, services, including Ukrainian citizens who are in the Syrian Republic, particularly in labour relations, employment, etc., and generally for the development of bilateral relations between our countries. The ratification of this treaty meets the relevant constitutional and legislative requirements and rules established in our country. I'm going to support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u150	Any questions about the reporter? Please, Stretovich Volodymir Mikolajovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u151	Vladimir Stretović, Christian-Democratic Union. Mr. Secretary, I had the opportunity to be in Greece last Saturday at the match of the assembly of Ukraine-Greece, and I think today we are going to the world championship, but by the way, we met our employees who work there. And they told me this strange situation that they've been working there for 10, 12 years, they've earned their pension, they've got the number of days worked. He says: “I have 400 days left, I will have a pension, a Greek pension.” But there's no agreement in Ukraine to recalculate this job. It turns out that our wage earners are strengthening the economy of other countries, so they have the right to receive pensions from this country, but there is no way. As the minister of justice, tell me, wheeze about the subject of the discussion that should be made between Ukraine, Greece, Spain, Italy, Portugal, that what our citizens put into the economy of these countries was going back to their pockets when they reached retirement age? Is that possible or impossible? Describe the algorithm that works in this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u152	Thank you for your question. It really applies to the interests of our citizens, who are now in a number of countries, especially in employment. In fact, a number of countries, including the European Union, in particular Portugal, have gone to establish appropriate bilateral relations with Ukraine concerning issues relating to guarantees of the social and labour rights of Ukrainian citizens in these countries. In this regard, the relevant intergovernmental agreements, which either provide this legal regime, such as the national regime, are virtually close to the national regime of citizens of Ukraine who are officially employed or who refuse. Nevertheless, this practice is not yet common today. As I said, there are only a few countries in the European Union and we have such agreements with them. I think today's question is actually a signal to the government that, in particular, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy will be united at the intergovernmental level of signing relevant protocols or agreements with countries where our citizens have established working relationships.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u153	Yavorovsky Volodymyr Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u154	Dear Mr. Minister! Vladimir Yavorowski. Of course, we realize that in the Syrian Arab Republic, our people work hard, especially our builders. I'm not saying that at this very time, but these are constant contacts, and this document is of course very important, and we will support it. I've got two of these little ones, I'd like to emphasize, little doubts. So, we're being investigated by the Attorney General's Office, the civil affairs department that you run. And on the other hand, everyone's in the Ministry of Justice. Isn't there some sort of disunity here, and there are some problems here, that there's one state authority, and we have a state authority dealing only with criminal matters, I'm sorry, the prosecutor's office is criminal, and the public authority is civil? One. And don't you think there are poorly prescribed diplomatic channels that can be used to deal with such problems?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u155	Thank you for your question, Mr. Vladimir. I will note that the treaty actually foresees that the Syrian side, including in terms of representation of interests, requests in civil or criminal matters, is represented by only one body at the stage of the pretrial investigation – the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, the Ministry of Justice and the Attorney General's Office. The point is that we have in accordance with the General Prosecutor's Office Act, according to the Law on the Ministry of Justice, this distribution of the representative functions of the Ministry of Justice and the Prosecutor's Office is established. In particular, the Ministry of Justice represents the interests of our country when it comes to dealing with cases in civil courts, or civil cases, and only here is its competence. If we are talking about the stage of the criminal investigation or the investigation of criminal cases, this is the competence of the Attorney General’s Office. Conflicts in this practice have not arisen in the practice of law enforcement, it's a well-established practice, and it doesn't create any problems with law enforcement. As for your second question about diplomatic channels, you know, it's also a established practice, there is. The Vienna Convention and a number of other convention rules governing relations with regard to diplomatic service, diplomatic relations, rules and procedures are in place. I'll tell you that it's not the first ratification of a similar kind of relationship, in fact, it's already about 100 such documents and no conflict, let's say, in the interaction of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Justice or the Attorney General's Office.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u156	Thank you, Mikola Vasilovich. A report from the committee. Belarus Valery Grigorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u157	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! The Committee on Foreign Affairs has carefully considered the draft Law on the Ratification of the Treaty between Ukraine and the Syrian Arab Republic on Legal Relations and Mutual Legal Assistance in Civil and Criminal Matters. This discussion was conducted actively, comprehensively, with the participation of the deputy minister of justice, and thus the committee will be able to produce the appropriate ones. Justification, from our point of view, ratification. We support both the purpose and purpose of this bill, which is designed to carry out the unified internal procedures necessary to obtain the stated contract of validity. The aim of the treaty is to improve the effectiveness of cooperation between the competent authorities of both States by providing mutual legal assistance in civil matters, by using an effective mechanism for mutual recognition and the enforcement of judicial decisions, and by creating legal grounds for cooperation in crime prevention, criminal investigation and confiscation of proceeds obtained by criminal means. According to an explanatory note by the Ministry of Justice, implementation of the law will not require additional funding from the State Budget of Ukraine. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council supports the adoption of the law. The draft law was considered at a meeting of the Supreme Council Committee on Legal Policy, which also concluded that the draft law was consistent with the Constitution of Ukraine and could be adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Committee on Budget Affairs also concluded that the bill does not have a negative impact on the income and expenditure of the budget and on its implementation during the current financial year. The draft law was also considered at a meeting of the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Security of the Supreme Council, which concluded that the draft law was registered in accordance with articles 91, 92 of the Supreme Council Rules, but commented separately on the accompanying documents of the bill. After studying these conclusions and discussions on the committee, we came to the conclusion on October 7, 2009, that there is good reason to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine ratify the treaty. Please support the committee's recommendations.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u158	Thank you, Oleg Grigorovich. Is there a question for a co-conspirator? No questions asked. Have a seat, please. Is there a need to discuss? There's no need for that. I am voting on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Syrian Arab Republic on Legal Relations and Mutual Assistance in Civil and Criminal Matters, registration number 0144. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:50:07]] For 296 Decision taken. The law's approved. Dear colleagues, two parliamentary factions -- the factions of the Party of the Regions and the factions of the Company -- have made a statement for a break of 30 minutes. Please, Efraem's microphone Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u159	Dear Alexander Vladimirović, so as not to delay the work of Parliament, we would like to ask for the floor to make a statement, in accordance with the Rules of Work, so that the suspension may be omitted and the right of the faction to make a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u160	Who will make the application?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u161	Sergey the Fishman.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u162	Please, the People's Deputy Ribhub.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u163	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters, our statement on such matters that we cannot keep quiet, since if we keep quiet, it means being a slave accomplice, it's classic. Prime Minister Timoshenko, in his numbered performances, artistically convinces the Ukrainian people that there is no money in the budget for social needs. I would say, with such wild joy and inspiration, they spread this lie to its nearest environment: vice-premiers, ministers, those who are just bound by a clear and well-respected law, recently adopted by the Supreme Council, to raise social standards. And all of this rhetoric is disguised as a veil of promise to fight corruption and to make excuses to its opponents. In fact, according to the facts, Timoshenko's government is implementing large-scale corruption schemes for the theft of state funds, and they're doing it openly, boldly, and, I would say, somehow challengingly, saying that you're going to do it here. That's what allowed us to get the facts about the corruption schemes of government officials. There's a sacred place in the economy like the state's wealth reserve -- products, I'll tell people, on a black day, so to speak. So they went there in the form of stock upgrades, and there they steal, and there they go. Here are the facts. The state reserve purchased 8,000 tons of meat, 4.3 thousand tons of animal oil, and 9 million, 600,000 cans of cans at a cost of 1.5 times the market value. Why higher than lower? But he sold it to his businessmen. Here they are together, and they've taken a lump of 176 million dollars right now. What kind of business are these? It is the “Grandmother’s Recipes” association from Mirrod, the “Pruženjka” association, the “Tradicia” from Chernivci, the “Riviera” dairy company Poltava, “Uko” of the Kyiv region, “Bachmachchunservmoloko”, the “LTD” trading house. These are all part of the immediate environment of the Prime Minister and their ministers. And why did these, not other enterprises get preferences on this issue, as they say, rhetorical? And in fact, it's not just a violation of tender legislation, it's obvious outright corruption. But this does not exhaust the fact. It turns out that all these thousands of tons of production in the state chamber did not come at all. These companies simply do not have such storage facilities in these areas. As a result, indeed, shame. To whom shame, and to whom, see a half billion dollars, 532 million dollars, more specifically, were paid to questionable firms for a product that did not come to the disposal of the State. Next fact. I'm asking you to give me half a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u164	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u165	This is corruption in the implementation of the State Reserve. First. The first category is sold at 6.40-6.75, 3 times cheaper. The loss of the state is another 74 million. The third class wheat was sold to a company called Universalline for 274 bracelets per tonne when the market value was 1 000 50 bracelets, i.e. 4 times cheaper. With Vika, NPA and others bought 6.90 of animal oil in the Derezer, and Derezerv himself bought it for 32 bracelets per kilogram. Four. The state reserve sold 15.7 ten thousand tons of petrol to Energo at the price of a thousand 600 dollars per tonne. And the market price at the time was eight 900, the result is 144 million dollars lost. And here's another fact. More than 170 million dollars were under-budgeted as a result of the sale of low-priced diesel to Energomas. I mean, at a funny price, he sold it for a thousand and a half tons. Thus the loss of the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u166	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u167	The truth is, let's give you a little bit of a row. Thus, the loss of the budget from government stocks alone amounted to 550 billion. What does that say? The State operates a crime-stricken budget-washing scheme through the Derezers, at the expense of established firms. Question: "What else do you need to steal in order for the prosecution to respond?" That's why I'm asking the Attorney General's Office to consider my speech as part of the current legislation. It's ours. I'm going to file a motion as a member of parliament to check the facts I've been explaining by opening a criminal case.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u168	Thank you, Sergey Mikolayovich. Thank you. I'm asking the apparatus to make a proper request to the Attorney General's Office. The draft Law on the Ratification of the Convention between Ukraine and the Great Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion on income taxes is under consideration. He reports: Fedashkin Deputy Finance Minister Denis Aleksandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u169	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! You will see the draft Law on the Ratification of the Convention between Ukraine and the Great Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya on the Prevention of Double Taxation and the Prevention of Tax Mitigation in respect of Income Taxes, signed on 4 November 2008 in Kiev. The convention will expand Ukraine's contractual legal base on taxation issues, the Convention provides favourable conditions for investors in Ukraine and Libya, stimulates the business initiative of entrepreneurs, regulates the issue of international taxation of income in bilateral relations between States. The purpose of this convention is to avoid double taxation on the income of natural and legal persons that arise in the territory of both countries. In addition, the convention aims to prevent tax evasion, eliminate tax discrimination, and create mechanisms to improve cooperation between the tax authorities of Ukraine and Libya, by establishing procedures for mutual reconciliation of issues and exchange of tax information. According to paragraphs 2 and 3, article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts, this convention is subject to ratification by the Supreme Council. The adoption of the aforementioned Ukrainian law will speed up the effectiveness of the convention and the organization of relations between Ukraine and Libya in the tax field. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u170	Any questions for the reporter? None. Please, have a seat. A report from Oleg Grigorovich Belarus, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u171	The honourable Head, honourable national deputies, the Committee on Foreign Affairs has considered this bill comprehensively and, also taking into account the conclusion of a number of other committees, believes that we have every reason to recommend that the Supreme Council ratify this treaty. If the Supreme Council is interested in the comments of other committees of the Supreme Council, I can comment on them. But in general, this bill will help resolve the issues discussed by the deputy minister. This bill was discussed on the committee by one of the heads of the ministry and thus all the questions were clarified. At its meeting on November 4, the Committee on Foreign Affairs approved recommending that the Supreme Council ratify the document. Please support the committee's recommendation.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u172	Is there a question for a co-conspirator?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u173	Please sit down, Oleg Grigorovich. Is there no need to discuss?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u174	I am voting on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Convention between Ukraine and the Great Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in respect of income taxes. Registration number 0148. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:00:15]] For-300 Decision taken. The draft Law on the Ratification of the Convention between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in respect of income taxes and the Protocol thereto is announced for consideration. [[Registration number 0146]] Reported Deputy Finance Minister Fudashkin Denis Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u175	Dear National Deputies! The draft Law on the Ratification of the Convention between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in respect of income taxes and the Protocol thereto is before you. [[Signed December 23, 2008 in Kiev]] The convention expands Ukraine's contractual tax base, the convention provides favourable conditions for investors in Ukraine and Pakistan, stimulates the business initiative of entrepreneurs, regulates the issue of international taxation of income in bilateral relations between States. The purpose of the convention is to avoid double taxation of the physical and legal incomes that arise in the territory of both countries. Also, this convention regulates tax avoidance prevention, tax evasion, and the elimination of tax discrimination. And also, the creation of mechanisms to improve cooperation between the tax authorities of Ukraine and Pakistan through the establishment of appropriate procedures, mutual reconciliation of issues and the exchange of tax information. In accordance with article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts, this convention is subject to ratification by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u176	The question is to the reporter? Yes. Please sign in. Yavorovsky Volodymyr Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u177	Dear reporter, this is the standard standard agreement for not allowing double taxation and for avoiding taxation in general, either in that country or in another country, we will support it and we need it. Maybe you know, I just asked you this question, you know, if you don't know, if there's a Pakistani reserve, and why they have meat, gasoline, and all that. If you know, please tell me.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u178	I can't answer that question.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u179	National Deputy Skutak, please. Have you changed your mind to ask questions? I see. A report from Oleg Grigorovitch Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u180	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The Committee on Foreign Affairs has considered this issue carefully, we have heard an open report by the Deputy Minister, we have heard the opinion of the Ministry of Finance that the implementation of the law will not require additional budgetary funding, we have considered the conclusion of the Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council, which supports the adoption of this law and takes into account the opinions of the Committee on Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Budget Issues, as a result of the discussion, we have concluded that there are grounds for recommending to the Supreme Council the adoption of this bill, i.e. the ratification of the agreement. We must say that there is an active work to be done to expand the international legal framework for our cooperation with the great Asian country of Pakistan. Please support the recommendations of our and other committees of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u181	Any questions for Oleg Grigorovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u182	I won't. Please sit down. Is there a need to discuss? There's no need for that. I am voting on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Convention between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in respect of income taxes and the Protocol thereto. [[Registration number 0146]] I'd like to make a statement. [[13:05:30.]] For 317 Decision taken. The law's been passed. A draft Regulation on the consent of materials to choose the location of land is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 4804]] Reported to the head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, Jury Mikola Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u183	Thank you. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished national MPs, regarding your proposal for a draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Registration number 4804]] It should be noted that according to the site selection materials, it is proposed to accept the limited liability of Thorf Land Ukraine for the location of manufacturing areas from the extraction of peat and the location of land in the Morokna-1 area of 203 hectares of particularly valuable land on the basis of the land of the state-owned enterprise “High Forest Farm” within the territory of the U.S. Rural Council, and 79 hectares of particularly valuable land, including 56 hectares of particularly valuable land from the agricultural cooperative Lysotechnik. The full scope of the material corresponds to the requirements of land legislation and, in accordance with the requirements of article 151 of the Ukrainian Land Code, is in line with the relevant executive and local authorities, landowners and land users, land administrations, environmental and health and epidemiological authorities, local building and architecture and protection of cultural heritage. In view of the above, the draft decree is proposed to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that it be accepted as a basis and as a whole as a determination. The Agrarian Policy and Land Relations Committee at its meeting on September 8, 2009, reviewed the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the agreement of the site selection material, registration number 4804, and also proposes that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the decision on the basis and as a whole as a decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u184	Is there a question for the reporter? No questions asked. Please have a seat. A report from Bebezenko Valerij Fedorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u185	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! With regard to your proposal for a draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision “Agreement of Land Location Selection Materials”, the following should be noted: The Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations at its meeting on 8 September 2009 considered the issue and notes that the materials of the selection of the location of the land of the company with limited liability “Torf Land Ukraine” and the location of manufacturing areas for the extraction of the Freser Torf in full measure meet the requirements of land legislation. [[Registration number 4804]] According to the requirements of articles 150 and 151 of the Ukrainian Code of Land, the materials are in agreement with all relevant authorities, checked by the committee’s experts and made available to all Ukrainian national deputies who would like to know them. In view of the above, the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations invites the Supreme Council to take the stated decision on the basis and generally as a determination. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u186	Thank you, Valery Fedorovich. Please sign up for a question. Yavorovsky Volodymyr Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u187	Dear reporter! Vladimir Yavorowski, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Of course, I would very much like to press the “yes” button or “against” button or not to vote at all to know who's behind this torpedo park, torfoland there and so on. But the thing is different. For 20 years we rent especially valuable land. I have an immediate question. What will happen to these particularly valuable lands 20 years after they are hosted by this Torf Land? That's one question. The second question. It's actually competence, and why is the Supreme Council here, if we start asking these questions every time, we can solve them in a completely different way? As a result, we will not vote in favour of this decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u188	Dear Mr. Yavorowski! I fully agree with you that this issue does not fall within the competence of the Supreme Council, but is enshrined in the Codex Earth. Accordingly, we must consider all matters of land drainage that refer to particularly valuable lands.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u189	Bondarenko Volodymir Dmitrovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u190	Vladimir Bondarenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, Party “Reforms and Order”. Of course, such decisions should first be fixed and there should be monitoring of the reduction in the number of particularly valuable lands by transferring them under a host object under some other of their investment programmes. And I wanted such questions to be further worked out in the Supreme Council and discussed, and what would happen there? What course or activity will be carried out there? Will this land remain especially valuable, or will it be tarnished or crammed at that time, and there will be nothing of value left for all Ukrainian citizens? So I would also like to have a deeper understanding of what and how to vote. If you know anything about this, for example, about the decline in the number of such land. Or how many in a year or before? And for what, in particular, do these areas stand out? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u191	I can only say what's in the documents. The papers say that this peat will be mined for the purpose of producing organic mineral fertilizers that will be directed to increase the fertility of the land in the Rowen region mainly. This is provided by the programme and the Minagropolitics, and it was approved by the Supreme Council in 96 May. Thus, for formal reasons, it is likely that we are doing what is right. But I also have a question about what will happen to these lands. So it's... it's...
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u192	Thank you. Please sit down. Is there a need to discuss? Yes. Please sign in. Let's sign up for a discussion. Yuri Volodymyrovich's digger, please. Prokopchuk Yuri Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u193	I'm out of town. Yuri Prokopchuk, Timoshenko Street. Of course, today the problem of torpedoing and peat as part of an energy program in Ukraine is very important. And let's say today, just to rip out, destroy all the Polish swamps, all that is and it's like they're using as fertilizer, it's completely useless and ungovernable. And that's why I think that this bill can't be supported for the simple reason that it's not going to bring any gains to the Plains region, it's going to cause damage. Including ecology. Therefore, I ask that the bill is not supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u194	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u195	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I'm surprised when the bill that was to be tabled by the government was now not introduced by a government tabled by individual MPs. I saw what we have on the Supreme Council. We have these two little papers: the draft decision that agreed with it and the conclusion of the committee. We don't have anything else. We have no conclusion from the Committee on Ecology, we have nothing to go on, no forest committee. We do not know what will happen to these particularly valuable lands or not to be buried, and there are 79.6 hectares of particularly valuable land, including 56.6 of the particularly valuable land of the Lisotechnik plant, as it relates. All we know is that the Ravenna district administration, the district council, and so on, agreed. That's why we're being referred, but there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, I think that, I don't know, maybe we should do the peat production, but on the materials we have, I can't personally vote. I went to the secretariat, asked, “What other materials are there? ” I'm sorry, we need to give more thorough papers, I'm sure of that. I don't think we're quite ready for this. Perhaps you should do so, perhaps not. This is the case where the principle “no harm” must be implemented. I was not convinced by these documents that I should vote in favour, they simply did not convince me, and even the committee that made the presentation, the representative of the committee, also uncertainly spoke. I didn't understand your point of view whether you were convinced of why we should vote or not. If you are convinced, then you must have called all the government officials by the committee, and they should have told you. At the very least, we must now invite a government representative who is today to speak here, but perhaps this is not enough to make such very serious decisions, very serious, because the Constitution refers to the property of the entire Ukrainian people. And it's already doing anything in this area. The oligarchs today get their oil, they think it's their oil, they get their gas, they think it's their gas, they set their prices as they wish. Nothing in this area changes over the past 18 years, just property goes from one to the other. And now the pears have begun to divide. I don't think we have enough material to make decisions, so I'm not voting on these materials personally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u196	National MP Herman Hanna Mikolayivna passes the right to speak on to Baran's Valery Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u197	I'm grateful to Anne Herman. I agree with Carmazin that the quality of the documents may leave us with a desire for the best. But you know, we can mold the baby with water, because we forget about the content, we prefer to talk about the form. The purpose of this bill, this regulation, is to allow for the development of peat. We are very fond to talk about energy dependence, about the need to move on to alternative sources of energy, about the need to build new equipment and introduce new technologies. At the same time, we do not allow this process to begin. It's like they say in Odessa, stay there, come here. Therefore, if we feel today that this decision cannot be taken, I would ask it to be withdrawn so that it can be finalized, invited by the representatives of our central authority and, after finalizing it, adopted. Because, in fact, you will agree, people's good must begin to be used for the purpose of the people and to overcome the energy dependence of our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u198	The discussion is over. Is there a need in the final word of the reporter? None. A draft Decision on the consent of the selection materials at the site of the land is put to the vote. [[Registration number 4804]] I'd like to make a statement. [[13:19:12]] For-100 No decision taken, draft decision rejected. A draft decree on the boarding of the borders of the city of Krasnoprekskok and the region of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea is being announced for consideration. == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u199	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! Dear National Deputies! The Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the community of the city of Krasnoperpekopsk have broken the city’s boundaries. The Red Cross is related to the establishment of a chemical industry and businesses such as VAT “Crime soda plant”, VAT “Brom” and VAT “Polly fluorine”. The project to change the borders of the city of Krasnoprekopsk was developed by the Crimea Research and Project Institute of the Ukrainian Academy of Agricultural Sciences. According to the city’s border project, including the existing area of 741 hectares and a thousand acres [741 ha]. One and a half thousand hectares of territory in the knowledge of the Red Cross City Council. The land of the city was transferred by decision to the Rajvikon, the archbishop, and the Council of Ministers of the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic. According to the decision of the Red Cross District Council, thousands of acres [1,000 ha] of land were transferred to the city council in 1992. With the adoption of the Constitution of Ukraine in 1996, the change in the boundaries of areas and cities is the exclusive competence of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, so the issue of the approval of the new borders of the city at the meeting of the Supreme Council was raised. After the change, the territory of the city of Krasnoprekopsk will be 2241.98 hectares. The issue of the change in the borders of the city of Krasnoprekopsk is in line with the legislation, discussed and approved by the city and district councils, the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on agrarian policy and land relations. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self - Rule supports the concern of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea regarding the establishment of the borders of the city of Krasnoprekopsk. We ask the deputies to support the community of the city of Krasnoprekopsk and the decisions taken. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u200	Any questions for the reporter? No questions asked. Please, have a seat. Thank you, Victor Mikolaiovich, sit down. Is there a need to discuss? There's no need. I am voting on the draft decree establishing the borders of the city of Krasnoprekopsk and the region of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. [[Registration number 4801]] I'd like to make a statement. The decision is taken in general. [[13:22:49]] For-173 The decision is not taken. The draft decision was rejected. The factions, please. Region Party – 113, “Timoshenko Yulia Block” – 1, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” – 15, Communists – 27, “Litvina Block” – 17, “Afterfractional” – 0. A draft regulation on certain issues of the administration of property of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is announced for consideration. [[Registration number 3663]] Reported by Ukrainian national deputy Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u201	Honourable National Deputies, on January 27, 2009, registered Bill 3663: Some issues of the administration of the property of the Supreme Council. I should like to inform you that this project is designed in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine, the Law on the Legal Regime of Property, which provides for the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, articles 319, 326 of the Civil Code of Ukraine, articles 134, 137 of the Master's Code of Ukraine for the purpose of rational and effective use of the Property Complex “Pancionate Glycinia” and the Land Area, which contains a monument to the Livadian Garden Art at an area of 10 hectares and a Botanical Order of the Local Value of “Northern Coastal Debris” at an area of 9 hectares, which refer to the Nature-Command Fund of Ukraine and have a special legal protection regime in accordance with Ukraine's Land Code and the Law of Ukraine. I remind everyone that this is a former object called "Dacha Breženeva". Prior to that, he was called an estate or, as it were, a former brother of the king, but before that, Khrushchev, yes, and so forth all of these. Well, I'll tell you what happened now. Therefore, I am grateful that he has been placed in the order of the day, and I am grateful to all the factions because I have demanded many times from this rostrum that he be installed. Thus, on February 26, 97, this monument commissioned the head physician, the director of the Lower Orenda sanatorium, the property of the former Veteran boarding house, then renamed “Glycinia” as a separate property complex to transfer the Lower Orenda sanatorium to the balance sheet of the Ukrainian State Tax Administration. I remind you, this happened in '97. Then by a ruling of the Kiev Master’s Court of Justice, dated 30.06. In 2005, the so-called Lower Orenda sanatorium to the Supreme Council's Office for the State Tax Administration found this to be invalid. the managing apparatus of the Supreme Council of Gnyduk for the transfer of the property of the former Veteran boarding house to the balance sheet of the DPA of Ukraine and is accordingly recognized as an invalid act of acceptance and transfer of all movable and immovable property from the balance sheet of the Lower Orenda sanatorium to the balance sheet of the State Tax Administration. The decision gained legal force. But on January 8, 2004, by order of Cabinet of Ministers No. 694, without the approval of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the owner of the property, this boarding house was transferred from the administration of the State Tax Administration to the administration of the State Administration and its subsequent consolidation under the State Enterprise of Ukraine, the International Children's Centre, Artek, on the right of economic knowledge. So watch the dates, distinguished national MPs! How does property disappear? By the order of the Head of the so-called DUSI then, in 2004, at the number of 12.10.2004 on the acceptance of the object of the medical appointment of the Glycinium has been transferred to the Artek balance sheet. On the ninth day after that, on the ninth day! – the leadership of the Head of State Affairs of Bakaya since 21.10.2004 has granted permission to the State Enterprise of Ukraine "The International Children's Centre "Artek" to alienate the boarding house. On the ninth day after the transfer, only. After the reception! You can imagine that this was done specifically in order to take and privatize this center. I emphasize the date when this happened. These were the last days of that President, and there were elections at that time. I looked at all these dates. On November 12, 2004, between the State Enterprise "International Children's Centre "Artek" and VAT "Bank of Foreign Trade" of the Russian Federation, without the consent of the owner of the property, the Supreme Council, a contract was concluded for the sale of buildings and the construction of a boarding house for 77 million 934 and 528 bracelets. The cost estimate did not include: moving property, a land plot of 20.4 hectares, on which is a monument of the Livadian Garden and Park Art of 10 hectares, a botanical order for the local meaning of the South Coastal Depot, which refers to the natural-order fund of Ukraine. [[9 hectares]] So grossly, brutally violated all the laws that are, including the Constitution of Ukraine. The Ukrainian court’s decision of 13.12.04 on the legal administration of the Supreme Council’s apparatus to the Cabinet of Ministers found that the first order of the government of 8/01.2004 on the transfer of health - care facilities was invalid. On September 11, 2008, the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine, in the case of the solicitor-general of Ukraine, the prosecutor of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Shemczuk, our current colleague, was presented in the interests of the state in the person of the Supreme Council of Ukraine by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to the State Administration of the VAT “Bank of Foreign Trade” of the Russian Federation and the DP MDC “Artek”, was examined in this case by the courts of the first and appeal institutions. The decision found that the contract for the sale of buildings and the construction of the Glycinium boarding house and the additional agreements made between Artec and the Bank of External Trade were not valid. I remind you that he is "Artec" to "Glycinia" for 40 kilometers, and it was obvious to all that the attachment to "Artec" was, you know, just so fictitious. Thus, for the time being, courts have established the illegal alienation of the property of the Supreme Council and the illegality of the mechanism for the acquisition of the right to use it by the State Administration of the cases and by the DRC of the ICC "Artec". In addition, after receiving from the Bank the external trade in buildings and boarding facilities, there are no legal grounds for the existence of the specified property in the MDC "Artec" DP, as the courts found not to be the real point of the first order of the Government of Ukraine since 8 January 2004 on transfer. The court is obliged to return the property, i.e. make a two-way restitution of the bank — to return the property and the property obtained under the contract — to recalculate the bank’s amount of $36 million,369,000,446.4 of the bracelets. The decision proposes to the state-owned enterprise within two months of the adoption of the decision to make all necessary arrangements for the transfer of mobile and non-movable properties of Glycinium to the balance sheet of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Supreme Council's apparatus is offered to be taken into balance by the Lower Orianda Sanatorium Management of Mobile and Non-Moveable Property Facilities of the Glycinium; the balance between the maintenance and protection of Glycinia boarding facilities and the maintenance of the land protection regime as a part of a natural-command fund, providing for the necessary costs in the Supreme Council's projects for the corresponding year; and obtaining documents in the established legal order that demonstrate the right of the Sanatorium to use the land permanently. [[Autonomous Republic of Crimea, a town-type village of Orenda]] I also propose, in paragraph two of the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption, that the involvement of officials, executive authorities, local self-government and state institutions be checked for corruption activities aimed at illegally alienating land and buildings in the Glycinium for the benefit of private persons, transferring a boarding house to a tenant's lease without the owner's consent. Let me tell you, over the years, the beach has been laid out, everything else has been laid out over these years, while all the weights are gone. I mean, control, I suggest he stay on the Committee on Rules of Procedure, MP ethics and the provision of the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Unfortunately, honourable national MPs, we just think we're in charge here, and by the order of the deputy head of the apparatus, it's just that state property, which is priceless, has no price, because 20 hectares of the reserve can be handed over just like that. And in a very simple way, it's taken out of state property, privatized and taken care of. That is why everyone in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and Ukraine has observed this, and I have asked this question more than once. I am grateful that you have brought it to a close, that the public has learned about the problem, and what decision you will make. Thankful for the committee’s consideration, they generally supported the decision. I ask you to vote and restore justice so that everyone understands that it exists and that there is justice in one way or another. I'm not sure it's going to be a very easy decision yet, but the first step, I think the national MPs have to do, the more that we've adopted good laws today, has shown that we can accept them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u202	Any questions for the reporter? Yes. Please log in. Yavorovsky Volodymyr Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u203	Vladimir Yavorowski, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. Dear Mr. Jury, poor 'Artec', poor our 'Artec', once one of the cleanest, most likely the city, has abandoned such a glimmer of filth, shame and scandals today, that I do not know how many years it takes to restore his honest name at all. I have a question for you, Mr. Jury, of course it's a cartolemy and criminal detective -- all that's been laid out and it can only happen in such a blessed state as we have with you today. But as a person I've known a long time ago, a man of integrity and courage has led the problem to society itself. But, Mr. Jury, I support you and I vote, "The Yulia Timoshenko Block" will support this decision's draft, but what do you call specific heroes? One day, you know, you passed between the dots. Who was then the head of the tax collector when it was taken, that is, it was the first step. What are these names? You know, give it to your tongue.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u204	You know, I've analyzed all of them into the same documents. I didn't want to and I don't want to politicize these things. Because I said it was the President's time, the President's time. That's the first one. The other one. I called it the end of 2004. [[Kuchmi, I mean]] But what I want to tell you is that this supervisor, I called him, the deputy manager of the management of the affairs, then the incumbent of the duties of Gnyduk, and by then, you know, there was one manager of the tax administration, and then they changed. But it's a flash operation. And I don't think, more faithfully, I want to tell you that the role, obviously, of a tax manager, had it not been for a government decision that then went, obviously, it didn't have that. So who was the head of the government in 2004 at the end? You know these same names. They're all known absolutely. I don't want it to be a papier for one candidate or one candidate for one -- you know me very well, Mr. Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u205	Stonewall Valery Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u206	Thank you. The Stone Block of the Yulia Timoshenko, Kharkiv district. I am deeply grateful to you, Your Honor Yuri Anatolyovich, for raising this very important, really, problem. In the spring of this year, I was assigned by the committee to go to those places and, in particular, by truths and lies, to this territory of Glycinia. What I saw in there is, they say, "the hair has gone deep." So it's over there. I would like to ask you if you know who stands, whose first name, again, is not to be politicized, because information has been given to me that some of the governing members of the Party of Regions are behind the new buildings that have emerged there, the new tenants on this earth have already appeared. And relative to moving and immovable property. It seems to me that the building is still, and everything is moving, and it's probably been taken away, stolen and sold out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u207	Dear colleague, I am deeply grateful for your sympathy for this moment, I just want to say that I do not want to use my senses, because I am not the Attorney General of Ukraine today, Attorney General Medvedzko. And in some ways, part of it belongs to someone in the Henprosecutor's Office, part of it belongs to someone else, from another state, and even higher bodies than the Henprosecutor's Office, the neighbouring state, I mean, part of it belongs to someone sitting in this room. Why was this project blocked? He wasn't put in the hall, that's what I've been asking for, like, a dozen times. I came to Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvin and asked him: stand up, put up, vote 0, but let my conscience be clear, what I did, what I could do, and that's all. So I think that where we're doing the commission of the committee, let him involve the prosecution, let her answer those questions, because if I'm going to evaluate it now, it's going to be a political evaluation of me as the head of the Party of Defenders of the country, it's not going to be right for the legal document, it's not going to be right. I don't want to, there are oligarchs there that don't have a party sign.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u208	Lyszko Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u209	Thank you, Reverend Alexander Volodymyrovich! Your Honor Yuri Anatolyevich, you have taken a very responsible approach to this question, and I think we should thank you and it will be strange if the majority of Parliament does not support this decision. Because it's about government property, which has actually been privatized with free, to the detriment of the interests of the state, the interests of the citizens. And when you're shy, surprisingly, you're not even risking calling the names of the people who were involved, you actually have to say that this was done directly by the previous government that ruled the country before 2005. In 2004, they stole the Glycinium into the states, in 2007 the “Migiriya” residence and other state acquisitions. That's exactly what we need to talk about. We need to vote and return the Glycinium.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u210	He's lying to Valeriovich! I want to answer you in this way, you and I have already made decisions, in fact, about the return of Glycinia to state property. When we adopted the budget for last year, where we predicted 77 million to return, to give away, we accepted the moment. We screamed, "Take this money away." We accepted, that is, most of our position. I think there's some part that needs to be turned over. Guilty is called the Attorney General's Office. I can't blame the guilty today, I just have a broken heart about what's going on there today. As Kamchatny said, what was going on? And everybody knows that, and on the regulatory committee, they've been looking around at what's going on. So, come on, let's vote now, let's get state property back. And from the DA's office, we'll ask them what they're doing specifically, let's hear them out, if you want, we'll vote for the Attorney General's Office right now. We have a sevastopol, he's sitting, the Attorney General's deputy, too, knows this situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u211	The question is Bondarenko Volodymyr Dmitrovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u212	Vladimir Bondarenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, Party “Reforms and Orders”. It has been a long time since these things were done. But before and now the undiscovered names of those heroes who did this, especially those who shared Foros, who took and divided Miss Saric, who beat 5,000 deer in the Crimean Reserve, who refused today, but who built a huge estate near Yalta to the side of Bear Mountain and many other questions. I know the role of one person who protected the property of Ukraine, by the way, you can blame him for something else, but Yuri Dagayev only learned that someone had a castle, particularly in a neighbouring state in some territory, he was taking it to state property. Sadly, another who came after him did so the other way around. That's why Mr. Jury is making the right proposal, and I'm bringing it in, let's hand it over to the Attorney General's Office with a whole set of territories that need to be determined who ripped them apart and why they didn't take responsibility and what is the role of today's President of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u213	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Dmitrovich. I want to remind you of that point you said at the mountain is the Nikita Botanical Garden you were referring to. And as for Miss Saric, and as for the trees of the jell-o tree, who doesn't know Ukrainian, I'll say he's a think tank. Thus, the mogul forests are now bought in the face of common sense, conservation legislation, everything else, and everyone is silent today. Part of it was reported from this rostrum, part not. But unfortunately, you're saying, we're talking about the President's past, it hasn't changed, and for this President, more than that, there have been papers, including not so long ago on this property. So let's not throw stones at that palace that we built with you, we control the enforcement of the laws, we assign ourselves to the authorities that control it, see that in another country is now hiding. Let's vote for it, let them handle it, give a report, break criminal cases.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u214	Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u215	Thank you. Dear Yuri Anatoliyovich, the decision must certainly be supported, and we will vote for it. But I'm in the middle of a discussion right now, and I'll tell you frankly, it's just the human pity of those black people from the power coalition who are trying to tie anything to any event, the real event of their political opponents. Believe me, this does not honor you, only political shells act this way. The specific fault of the individual must be proved, and Karmazin, as a lawyer, is certainly right. Dear colleagues, you've been in power for the second year, you've been killing the people that keep you out of order? You've got all the tools in your hands. Yuri Anatoliyovich, please tell us the Dulber sanatorium is today's, today's woe. Who's alienating some of the property? Who is there in the Dulber sanatorium that alienates part of the beach? Who is there trying to repeat what was in Glycinia at the time? Who are these people? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u216	Dear Jaroslav Mikhailovich, I agree with your proposal not to politicize this issue and vote. Thank you for your intention. If I haven’t been political, I can tell you that as a rester, I haven’t been there for the next nine years, so it’s hard for me to say. Names that play on the level of sound I won't sound. Among them are the names that sit here in this room. I don't want to do it, and I can't do it. There is a presumption of innocence established by the Constitution. I've informed you of the decisions of the Ukrainian courts, which are today, which have entered into force, which must be implemented. And we need the Supreme Council, we need to get up, we need to get our property, we need to stop and we need to control it. And then together, I think we'll find the political will to make things right. So we're not going to politicize either way. And "Dulber," I agree that "Dulber" should, but this is a separate subject and the "Dulber" decision. Well, if you give me an order, I'll check it out, report it to you on "Dulber." All right, I'm going to make a "Dulber" ruling.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u217	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Please sit down, Yuri Anatolyovich. A report from the Committee by Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov Please let go. Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u218	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! To carry out the mandate of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Lithuania, of 27 January 2009, the Committee discussed the draft Supreme Council Regulation on Certain Matters of Property Settlement of the Supreme Council, introduced by the People's Chamber of Carmazin at its February 04th meeting this year. The above-mentioned draft decree proposes that, in accordance with the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Civil Code of Ukraine, article 2 of the Ukrainian Law on the legal regime of property, which ensures the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with the decisions of the courts, undertake the State Enterprise of Ukraine to the International Children's Centre “Artec” of the State Administration to arrange for the transfer of illegally transferred property to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the balance sheet of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The draft decision was made in accordance with article 93 of the Constitution of Ukraine and articles 90 and 91 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. At the same time, we need to sort the numbering of the items in the draft regulation because it contains two other items. In paragraph 3 of the draft decision, the Committee considers that a specific area of land, 24 hectares, should be specified in paragraph 3 of the draft decision. I'm asking you to listen, because it concerns you, and there's a lot of detail going on here. Instead of the border reinforcements established at the time of the issuance of the illegal order of the executive responsibility of the Chief Executive of the Supreme Council of Ukraine since 26. 02. In 97, he suggested that the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine should check the legality of the decision of the Libyan Village Council of 23 March 2001 to exclude the permanent use of the Glycinium mansion of an area of 1.02 hectares and consider the measures to restore the land to state ownership. The paragraph that includes the commission of the committee on the fight against organised crime and corruption of the committee's draft decision is proposed to be excluded, since article 14 of the Ukrainian Act on Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine does not provide for the verification functions of the committees for which they carry out the checks referred to in this section of the project. As a matter of violation of this draft regulation, the committee referred to the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine. Paragraph 3 of the draft regulation should also not be excluded, as one of the subjects of the Committee's knowledge of the Rules, MPs and the provision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's activities is to monitor the performance of the apparatus for ensuring the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, so this does not require a separate definition. That's what I'm talking about. Moreover, this point is not valid from the point of view that one committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is obliged to control the work of another committee. The Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to consider and support the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on certain matters relating to the administration of the property of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, introduced by the National Deputy of Ukraine Carmazin, taking into account the above-mentioned observations of the Committee in view of the circumstances in and around the state-owned enterprise of Ukraine, the “International Children's Centre for Artek” and the objective of rational and effective use of the property complex of the Glycinium Pension and the land area of 20.4 hectares, which includes, inter alia, the monument of the Lividian Garden Art in the area of 10 hectares and the botanical order of local importance of the “Northern Trees” at 9 hectares. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention. We have the determination of Alexandre Volodymyrovich, we can make it with our suggestions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u219	Is there a question for a coconspirator? Please sign in. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u220	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Alexander Sergiyovich, thank you very much for your support. But you have heard today that the question of "Dulber" was also raised during the consideration of the issue, that it is completely insane. I agree with what the village council did there, and I told you that they took it there, not just the village council, but the court's decisions got mixed up there, there's a serious set of problems. We need to put the Attorney General's office on the line. I would just like to point out what I would ask you to say, and what if I don't need one committee after another to control it, but let the two committees -- the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption and the Committee on Rules review the status of implementation of this decision, including the situation in Dulber. How do you feel about this? I completely agree with what you can and remove these points, but it's better if we did that, and it would certainly be that it wouldn't have just been pushed down to the brakes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u221	Dear colleagues, in fact, we have been working on this issue in the Regulatory Committee, if we are objective, for three years, from the moment we initiated the courts on the return of the Police to the property of the Supreme Council. These decisions were then taken, and so far, as I have spoken and prepared material for this decision, we have already had the answers of the Attorney General's Office on a number of issues. There, the Attorney General's Office questions the return of a number of territories in general. If you've seen, if you've given attention to this issue, I've asked you specifically to indicate in our ruling that, well, in this case, when you've been cooking, you haven't been able to do anything to point out a 20.4 hectare area, because if you take into account what the Attorney General's Office is throwing out, it's supposed to be in other property, then there's much less space. I believe that we must deal objectively with all these issues, in accordance with the laws that exist in the State. The question is, who's gonna control it? You know, it's not so important, it's so important that those bodies in charge of implementing powers work effectively.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u222	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Herman Hanna Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u223	Dear colleagues, it follows from this that in Ukraine law enforcement structures are needed. Ukraine needs the National Attorney General's Office of Ukraine, which would have the authority to beat the hands of those who steal state property. I propose, Alexandre Sergiyovich, to add to paragraph 2 the requirement to verify those actions that are currently taking place from the attempt to acquire, also to privatise the territory of the Dülber boarding house. It is absolutely necessary to do so and to address the people, if we see that the Attorney General’s Office, if it is true that it has its own houses there, is trying to close its eyes on such thefts, then we must turn to the people. Let the general prosecutor be the Ukrainian people.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u224	You know, I totally agree with Anna Nikolaevna on this. It would also be logical to consider Dülber, including. And there's a place up there that's always trying to take the village councils. is now Lower Oriand, and we have already refused to address this issue several times on the committee, and we need to work together on this issue and make a final decision, whose property it is, to find the master there. But I would also like to stress the following, distinguished colleagues. When it comes to property, we have to understand. That this property should be kept. And in a state where there are truly unique buildings and buildings that are valuable to our entire State, they must be adequately funded to be supported in the same manner. in the state in which they are to be. We are saying today that it has not been allocated to the Supreme Council for the maintenance of the buildings in recent years. As soon as funds are made available, it is immediately said that it is the legation of deputies and so on and so forth.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u225	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u226	And in fact, the fact is, it's separate. Some would simply want to bring it to complete destruction and then privatize it. That's my point of view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u227	Zinovy Vasilovich. One last question.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u228	Alexander Sergiyovich, we handed over "Artec" from the Authority about six months ago. State administration of the President's Office of Ministers. Please tell me whether the state property management situation has improved in relation to the transfer, and as you think, this frequent change of management does not allow it to be used by those people who, in this way, behave as they did with Dülber and this sanatorium that we are looking at.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u229	You know. You know, I understand the answer I'd like to hear from you, but I've been doing a very long time of actually specific production work, and I know that from the moment you take a balance to the time you put it in order, even if there are funds. Because, in the short period of time that Artek camp was transferred, it was unlikely that something could be changed to the best or the worst. That's one question. And the second question. As I recall, there were only 80 million bracelets allocated by the Cabinet of Ministers as a matter of priority to address these issues. This is not the amount that can provide for the same solution. In doing so, I would like to say that, over the past five years, the financing of the President's Secretariat, including from the DUSA, has increased much more than the financing of the Cabinet of Ministers and the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u230	Dear colleagues, we continue this morning's plenary session before the finalization of this issue. Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? Please, the people's representative of Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u231	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u232	Excuse me, hold on a second. Sign up if you still want to. Please, the people's deputy, Matthew, and then on the list.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u233	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to propose the following. In order not to distract the adoption of such a very important legal act, I think we could go this way: to take a decision today as a whole, not to go any further: on the basis of, then to work out, and again to wait for this bill to happen, or to draft its decision as of January of this year. Think about it, our colleague Karmazin introduced in January, and only today are we considering the draft of this ruling, how long after that has taken place, including in matters of judicial review of the problem. So I think that, in doing so today, we would be able to entrust the Rules and Deputy Ethics Committee and to provide the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, together with the author of the bill and the Chief Legal Authority, to finalize this draft decision in an editorial manner in order for it to come out as a document adopted by the Supreme Council, taking into account all the proposals that have been made, particularly by the Head of the Regulatory Committee, and speaking in discussing this very difficult but very important problem for many citizens, particularly those who live and work there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u234	People's MP Prokopchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u235	Yuri Prokopchuk, Timoshenko Yulia Block, Ravenshkina. Dear voters, honourable colleagues, today, one of the most important issues is being addressed, the issue of the looting of the Ukrainian state, the looting of its lands, and when the question of Glycines is raised today, and the "Dulber" is now emerging. Once again, we forgot that 140 acres [140 ha] of mountain was donated as political bribes by President Viktor Yanukovic. Why is this question not being considered today? It rises but does not form a temporary commission of inquiry or anything else. We have heard so much from this rostrum that everyone is fighting corruption, as everyone is fighting including law enforcement agencies that go to court. But yesterday we had to beat the President’s veto to a bill of 3,428, which deals with sanctions, severe sanctions, in relation to those officials who are to conduct objective investigations and investigations that are to be conducted objectively, and if they take bribes, they are to be held for life. How many times have we heard the word “corruption” from this rostrum by our fellow party members today? What are you doing to fight corruption? Nothing. Excuse me, Your Honor, your faction is not prepared to take bribes but 19 people who voted in favour and defeat the veto. Everyone else, I can understand it that way, either I'm ready to give, or I'm ready to give. What you're struggling with then and what you want, using this rostrum as a political platform to win voters' sympathy. People won't be able to fool themselves anymore. And we know who's really fighting, and who's just saying it, pouring poison out of the screens. Now, I'm sorry, Grandma's hats on individual politicians are being thrown into the screens. And, you know, I want to say that we're talking about both the economy and the economy. I think that at this point in time, the more there are politicians who are present in the hall, and there are those that are not there, who can't even justify what to say, because they're just being watered down all over the canal from morning to evening. And that's all. Because when they say so, they've already stolen it. But after you, there's nothing to steal. It's as empty as the desert. So what do you want, Your Honor? The bill is right and the decision is right, and it needs to be supported. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u236	Serbian Yuri Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u237	Dear colleagues! I rarely speak out on political issues. But they did, as they say. Here are our opponents who are offended by the fact that we are referring to Mizgir, who is mentioned in other questions. And that's all of them. [[B in m in s a l in]] And that's all one question. One chain, no matter what screams, this colleague of ours is yelling. Just remember who protected Mr. Chernevski when we were in opposition and you were in power? You know for two years that the land of Kyiv has been looting, you know that by the time we have chosen it, God forbid, Julia Volodymyrna will win the election to bring order, there will be nothing left in Kiev. You're still supporting him, aren't you? Who's he working for now? It's working for you, dear fellows! So why do you resent us when we tell the truth? And you're gonna sew up pedophiles for us or something. So what's the moral principle here? Now, specifically to this determination. I understand the author who didn’t want to do it to be political, and we wouldn’t want you to talk about it. But still, we have the only thing that makes me question, remember we've been looking at Kiev and Sevastopol, the result is zero. Because what I'm proposing in this regulation is that we definitely have to accept it, but let's make sure there's constant control behind this decision, and we don't have to give it six months, as we give it, the year gives everything else. Let us be with you every two months, regardless of how this case goes. Let's prove that the Supreme Council is capable of something. And then you, distinguished opponents, can really tell us that we're against corruption. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u238	The national deputy of Labunsk. Bondarenko Volodymir Dmitrovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u239	Vladimir Bondarenko, House of Yulia Timoshenko, Party of Reform and Order. Today’s decision applies only to one object in Crimea that has caused such a storm of emotion and that is said to be the dumping of other materials that should be thought out, but at what moral level is our authority and society, when such things become possible not only in Crimea but also near Kiev, near every great city. And there was already a reference to politics, such as the Cherniewiteks. You know, today the Attorney General's Office in Kiev has taken away over 60 plots of land of various sizes. I've charged the Attorney General's Office with commercial activity and now I have a court case that's been pending for two years. They feel that it is not commercial, for example, to divide the military into caves and to distribute several acres or other land to their friends. And these facts continue, here was a suspicion of what the Cabinet of Ministers did with "Artec". But there was nothing I could do, because the Dusia did not give up, which means the President did not hand over the "Artek" to the Cabinet of Ministers, there is no such legal act of transfer. They just threw in the funding, because the money that used to come to them was usually stolen. So I would like to point out that in my time in Crimea, I went on a small boat like this to that big building in the Botanical Garden and talked to the Serbs who worked there, with the Yugoslavs. They made it clear to me: “This is Mr. Janukovic’s object. ” I don't know, I'd like the D.A. to check it out, but it was moved so quickly, they said they had nothing to do with it. Who paid, and who ordered, where did he come from, and who could take such a large land to Crimea? I want to say that this practice continues. I've already said here that the National Security and Defence Council, which has to deal with other problems besides building housing, as if for its employees, has taken a hectare of land to me in the district, in Borsztzegovica, under the windows of the house, where I live and not only me. And I learned about it by accident, no citizen knows about it, unless the National Security and Defence Council is its profile activity to build housing and sell it. Because in the council itself, fewer people work than apartments in this house. Thus, it is clear that our authority, especially that today was formed near the President, is those who have moved from the Party of Regions, Mrs. Bogtyrirova, Gavrish. Today they have brought standards, joined with the President, and today they are tossing Kiev under the cover of Chernewsky, who hangs on their hooks, for if he pulls it somewhere else they will give it away. So he is the most obedient mayor and they will fight for him every day to get this Kiev land into the pen. That's the question we raised, and it came up like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u240	Shevchuk Sergey Volodymyrovich. Yavorovsky Volodymyr Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u241	Dear colleagues! Dear voters! I imagine people are now listening to us and imagining what is happening in our blessed Ukrainian state. Of course, Crimea has become such a range, perhaps the dirtiest criminal, insolent, various privatization initiatives. From Crimea, these initiatives are taking place all over Ukraine. And I think it's catching up not only with Kiev today, but perhaps even the deafest village today, as we were looking at the ruling on this "Ttorfolland" that was offered to us today. We understand that Crimea is too lassy. But let's imagine for one minute, we're MPs here, people think we're great authorities, we run the country there and so forth. And behind our backs, behind the MPs, some deputy in charge of the affairs, it turns out that he's giving away the property. And none of us really knew anything about it. You see how much it went from one hand to the other -- it's a whole chain, and no one stopped it. And we, look, back in January, Yuri Carmazin suggested that we take this decision, and we're just looking at it right now. And look who we're all torn up, scattered, and we'll see who's voting for and how. But let's, if we say so, let's really talk about these issues already in the complex. There's one of the presidential candidates, and I'd like to call it in peace, Victor Mezigirski -- we can call it -- we've calculated how much 130 hectares of this beautiful Highland can cost. [[Applause]] And you know, in very modest estimates, we took something like this -- $8,000 a hundred. Do you know how long it's been going on? 28 billion, imagine what fraction would now come to our budget and we'll do it, and I think we'll return, and it would be really great if he did it himself, and it would be such a colossal cleanup, let's say an example of the cleansing of the person who claims to be the highest. Well, there's a lot of these typical things going on in Crimea, and I'm just going to be the head of the National Writer Association, and I'm going to say that two, three times a year, we're organizing all the writers to get away from this dame, the deputy prime minister of Crimea, because she really likes the house of Mother Volosin, the famous Russian poet of the Ukrainian native. And as we didn't explain, because they kind of want to do another mother museum there, I'm explaining to them, you know, in this country was the only mother's museum, this is Lenin's, but even Chevchenka's mother's museum isn't there, because it's not accepted, but it really likes this house. And if it wasn't for my title, believe me, this house would've been a long time on the coast of the sea at Coquettebel, they'd have taken it long ago. That's why I think it's today.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u242	Vladimir Alexandrovich, that's not different. If you spoke by decree, you could talk for a long time. Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u243	Because of this, I am convinced that this decision that Yuri Carmazin made today is very relevant, it is good that we have returned to this painful problem. "Julia Tymoshenko's Block" thinks it can't be voted for in all of the inaccuracies there, and today we have to vote for it. Because if we put it down, there's a presidential company and it's gonna choke to death. Let us vote today, and I urge everyone to vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u244	Herman Hanna Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u245	I am addressing those who have not stolen anything in Crimea and who are obviously going to vote in favour of this decree today, as well as for us to prevent criminal acts in the Dulber. One of the deputies from BUTU came out here and asked what kind of moral level our authority is today. I'll tell you this, my dear colleague: at any point, today's power is not at any moral level, because, according to Stephen Cloud, it simply “mixes morale with marlay”. The second deputy from BUT here is crying that they no longer have anything to steal, steal, sin, and respectable colleagues. And we here in the Parliamentary Hall should not talk about what you no longer have, what you steal, but you should think about how you don't steal, and why you shouldn't steal. And the fourth member of the "Julia Timoshenko Block", speaking, suggests that the Attorney General's Office calculate how much a hectare of land costs in Medjugorje, because he thinks it's a great idea to clean up. Let us also invite the Attorney General's Office to examine who owns the palaces of Julia Timoshenko? Who pays for these palaces? Why Julia Timoshenko lies in her declaration, writing about her living in a two - room apartment in Dnipropetrovsk. And if Julia Volodymyrna goes through this purgatory too, we will feel that we have made a good start for the cleansing of the entire state. Thank you for your attention, and I urge everyone to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u246	Last written by Corge Vitali Terentiyovich. Don't insist. Thank you. I am betting on voting on the basis of the draft Decree on certain issues of property management of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Registration number 3663]] I'd like to make a statement. [[14:15:41]] For 332 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, under the co-report of the Head of the Regulatory Committee, made proposals concerning the inclusion in the draft regulation of specific area numbers, including in paragraph 2 of Part 3 after the words “Glycinia’s land area should be added to an area of 24 hectares”. There's a denial against
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u247	No objections? I won't. And also with regard to the 3 points on the appeal to the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine to verify the legality of the decision of the Libyan Village Council of 23 March 2001 on the removal from the permanent use of the Glycinium land estate of 1,0232 hectares and the measures taken to restore the land to state property. Is there any objection to that? There's no room!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u248	Let's take it one step at a time. The proposals of the Regulatory Committee shall be put to the vote. Please make up your mind. [[14:17:01]] For 331 Offers are supported. Now, Tomenko Mikoli Volodymyrovich's proposals.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u249	Dear colleagues, since this was the subject of a series of boarders who are known to govern the property of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I propose to paragraph 2 where it reads: “The Territory of the Glycinium Pension, write, “Dulber” and “Lower Orenda” for the benefit of private persons transfer to a long-term lease”. Because it's about not only the Dulber, but also the Lower Orange, a lot of classics that are obviously connected to the highest positions, and they're building up, and they're building up, and we're afraid to say it. So we're going to add two words "Dulber" and "Lower Orange" and we're going to analyze all three objects.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u250	I'm voting on the proposal of Mikola Volodymyrovich. I'd like to make a statement. [[14:18:09]] For 331 Offer supported. Any more suggestions? There's no more, there's more. Please, Serbin Yuri Sergiyovich. Dear colleagues, we have agreed that we are working on this issue before the end.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u251	I suggested that two months later at the end of January, I consider this issue at a meeting of the Supreme Council in my speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u252	What question is there to consider?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u253	This question will be considered at the end of January at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council at the end of January.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-18-m0.u254	Well, it's probably not a question, it's information about execution, I understand. Well, it doesn't have to include a ruling, it's protocol and you can do it. I'm betting on a whole draft Supreme Council regulation on some issues of the administration of the property of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, taking into account the already voted supplements. [[Registration number 3663]] I'd like to make a statement. [[14:19:24]] For 343 Decisions have been adopted in general. Dear colleagues, it was an offer to return from some question. I think we can do this, we can do this in our next plenary session. The morning plenary session is closed. The next plenary session will begin tomorrow at 10 a.m. Good luck.
