ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please prepare for registration. Please turn on the "Council" system. [[10:01:19]] There are 413 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The morning plenary session is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of our colleague, Deputy Lászko Oleg Valeriyovich. Oleg Valeriyovich, we welcome you and wish you creative activity and good results. Today, Thursday, we're working on a schedule that we've had since Tuesday and in part Wednesday. Reported for review, with proposals from the President of Ukraine, Ukraine's Act on Amendments to Ukraine's 2009 State Budget and on Excise Assembly Rates on Tobacco Products [[Registration number 4707]] As reported by Alexander Vitaliyovich Schlapak, First Deputy Head of the Secretary of the United States of America.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u2	Dear Lord Chairman! Dear National Deputies! On October 22, 2009, the Ukrainian Parliament adopted amendments to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget 2009 and the “On excise duty rates on tobacco products”. The law is vast, the law is large enough. And according to most of the articles of this law, there are no warnings from the President. This applies to changes to the income and expenditure of the special fund for more than five billion dollars, and this also applies to all proposed changes to the 2009 budget. Yet the law contains two standards that the President considers to be extremely principled and which he proposes to review. Such proposals were made in accordance with article 94 of the Ukrainian Constitution, and the President sent them to the Ukrainian Parliament. Let me comment on these two points of principle. The first one. The Head of State cannot agree with one of the sources of additional costs defined in the law, namely, an increase of more than 190 million dollars in excise collection revenue from an increase in excise duty on tobacco products and an increase in the corresponding additional costs to be financed by a reduction in the cost of domestic government debt. For example, honourable national MPs, I would like to remind you that this is the third change in excise duty rates on tobacco that Parliament has made this year. And if we had an increase in excise duties in February by 25 to 30 percent, the increase that took place on April 30 already raised excise duties on average 2 to 2.9 times. The third increase now proposed is the increase in excise duties, if you compare it to the beginning of the year, 2.7 to 3.5 times. There are at least two groups of warnings: the first is a legal group and the second is an economic group. As for the legal group, I do not consider it necessary to remind you that the Ukrainian Act on the Tax System says that the new rates of excise congregations, as well as any tax innovations themselves, should enter into force no later than six months after the adoption of the law. This is designed specifically to enable businesses to prepare their productions for new game rules. In this case, however, it is suggested that excise duties be imposed on the congregation from the time of the publication of the law. I will also remind honourable members that the Act, the Basic Act on Excise Rates on Tobacco Products, introduces a procedure for setting excise rates. This procedure is clearly followed this year. On July 24, 2009, according to the law required to be passed by August 1, already announced excise duty rates to be applied from January 1, 2010. Sadly, however, a few weeks before the new year, another attempt to change the rates of the excise congregation, which I will say again, is in conflict with this law. Now for economic arguments, honourable national MPs. The increase in excise duties will no doubt result in a decrease in the production of Ukrainian tobacco companies. I want to bring you only one digit in, after the adoption of the new excise duty rates in April months, we have a decrease in the third quarter of production in our factories by 17 percent. Second, this will certainly lead to an increase in counterfeit production. According to recent data from our power structures, three powerful, illegal cigarettes have been eliminated in the last four months. Of course, it will lead to increased smuggling in Ukraine. Notice, for example, these figures, the rates of excise duty on cigarettes in Ukraine in solid amounts will be twice as high as in Russia and nearly 17 times as high as in Moldova and are set at 6 and 12 times as percentages respectively. The most striking difference is for non-filtered cigarettes and low - brown cigarettes. Because with the adoption of the law, one pack of non-filtered cigarettes will be 4.3 times more likely than in the Russian Federation and 3.8 times the filtered cigarette. This has already yielded its results, and we have a tremendous amount of information about the substantial increase in the smuggling of cigarettes into Ukraine. I'm going to start with just two testimonies, the first of which is the Ministry of Internal Affairs, which reports that there has been a 40-fold increase in smuggling in Ukrainian markets today. And the second is the testimony of the Consumer Protection Committee, which conducted special studies throughout Ukraine on September 23th and November 5th. This study confirmed that out of 730 surveyed commercial objects, more than 150 are involved in smuggling. The largest number of products that do not meet the requirements of the normative documents is clearly located in the border areas. Externally, such products are made in an absolute majority of cases in foreign lands. For example, in the Odessa region in each third case, smuggling was traded. In Kharkiv, 100 percent of the subjects that were screened for smuggling were smuggled. The Autonomous Republic of Crimea out of the 50 proven cases of smuggling and so forth. And finally, the last argument I wanted to make is that of my esteemed colleagues. I want to remind you of the order in which the excise congregation is brought together, which is fixed in Ukrainian legislation. Five days before the beginning of the month, new excise rates should be declared. It's impossible to do that now. But even if you think of a way outside the law to force an enterprise to pay this excise, I remind you that according to Ukrainian legislation it pays for 15 days, not earlier than 15 days after the end of the month. So at best, the new revenue will only get on January 16th. To view this 190 million as the source of the 2009 budget is absurd. That's why the President is proposing to replace the source for the economy in the service of government debt. The second principle of observation, honourable colleagues, relates to article 57 of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget 2009. I recall that this article states that the average monthly salary of employees of the executive district and district councils should not exceed the average monthly salary of employees of the appropriate local government administration. For the first time in the 2009 budget, this is an extremely complex and controversial issue, the alignment of the employees of the executive bodies of the district councils, district councils and administrations has been put in place and resolved by the Supreme Council. I will also remind you that there has been a reference to the Constitutional Court by a number of national deputies to the legality and constitutionality of this article. And the Constitutional Court, by its decision of 20 May 2009, has absolutely confirmed that Parliament has the right to a similar kind of restriction. Then the deletion of this article will bring back the problem that we had, and I remind you, on the average, 28 percent of the wages paid by members of the representative authorities were higher than in the administrations. We have had cases where the head of the district council received a cumulative salary nearly twice as much as that of the head of the district administration. For the first time, once again, Parliament has placed the salaries in the representative authorities under parliamentary and executive control. Convinced that this order must be preserved. The president would like to hear these two proposals, after which he would be ready to support the Law on Changes to Budget 2009. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u3	Any questions for the reporter? Please log in. Liszko Oleg Valeriyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u4	Oleg Laszko “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear Alexander Vitaliyovich, do you know the coming of excise duty on tobacco in January-November 2009? Because you didn't say it in your report. If you don't know, I'll tell you. 8 billion 364 million dollars. For comparison. Over the same period last year, a little over two billion. So the difference is almost 6 billion dollars plus last year. If this smuggling, as you say, where did this plus 6 billion come from? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u5	Mr. Oleg, I want to support you, to support you in this. Today, excise duties on tobacco products in Ukraine are indeed significantly lower than in European countries, for example. And the price of a pack of cigarettes must have been to raise the rate of excise duty. It's hard to deny. However, we must consider that there are neighbors with us who are able to store the market in case we are thoughtlessly engaged in such a work. I want to remind you of the year 2000. I remember very well when I was working in the executive branch and we had one of the main tasks of dealing with smuggling, which at the time was two thirds of the Ukrainian market, two thirds of the money that stood with smuggled cigarettes at every literal step and turn. That's why the numbers you call are definitely very important and good. But there is a limit. We can cross this line, with my conviction, from the adoption of this law. A 3.5-fold increase when a pack of our cigarettes is 4 and 3 times more expensive than Russian cigarettes, is the 200 percent, after Carl Marx, which will lead to a distortion of the Ukrainian market. Let's go back to this issue in January, let's look at the results of the year. Again.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u6	Please complete your answer more precisely.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u7	Consider once again the situation of smuggling, the decline in production in Ukrainian factories, and only then will we make such important decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u8	Sebravsky Paul Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u9	Alexander Vitaliyovich, did I understand correctly that the President does not mind raising the excise, but that we reconcile our positions with Moldova, with Russia, and in sync, we raised the excises, where in Russia, our immediate neighbours, and Moldova, if we could get up, we wouldn't mind lifting. Because it's not going to stimulate smuggling. That's the first question. And the second. Don't you think it's the return of the numbers for the heads of district councils, that's the political bribe before the election campaigns. And there's more politics than common sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u10	Thank you for asking. As for the first question, I fully support, Paul Ivanovich, the logic that you speak of, and that logic is supported by the President of Ukraine. Let's do this together. Let's have appropriate interstate talks with them and try to go together and together. Moreover, the plans of both the Moldovans and the Russians are. Just let's go in sync. Otherwise, I say again, we're going to lead to market distortion. As for your second question. I'm deeply convinced that the Supreme Council made the right decision when I put under State control the cost of any official's salary. It does not matter if it serves the central government or if it serves the local authorities. And so the attempt to abandon this, 57th article of the budget, I am convinced, is a political mistake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u11	Landik Valentin Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u12	Dear Alexander Vitaliovich! In fact, we've heard your speech, we understand that excises are very serious. That's the budget filling and so on and so forth. But something you haven't said in a while, no matter what anyone says, and what we're doing with some kind of production, we're raising something and we're still filling the budget. Let's just keep quiet like that. And that's not what I was going to say, because not today -- tomorrow you'll come up with another question. What, we're gonna bring in a beer too? Do you know that the price of beer is already equal to the price of vodka cheap, we're all going to merge, but are we going to wait for excise duty? I have two such questions. If possible. The first isn't very much on this subject, but you're just going to go out for a beer. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u13	Valentin Ivanovich, this is how I propose. In each case, it is an extremely important regulation for the market. Let's sit down and count together. It is not just from the point of view that we allow cigarettes or vodka to traumatize people. If you're a smoker, you'll smoke anyway. The other thing is that you stop smoking Ukrainians over expensive cigarettes, and you encourage smuggling. And here's the limit to making the right economic decision in every single case, if there's a question in Parliament about the next raise of beer excises, although I'd be absolutely against, coming out of today's market, I'd have to count carefully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u14	Hell-bent Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u15	The distinguished rapporteur, I, as a smoky smoker in the past and non-smoker in the present and future, will support any programme related to the fight against smoking. But this proposal to combat smoking has nothing to do with it. You've been here a long and long time telling us what's going on. The joke the boy from the newspaper said: "Daddy, are you going to smoke less?" – "No, you're going to stop eating candy." So where did you get the $6 billion, you have to name it, they got out of our voters' pocket. Today, the family budget for a smoker is 17 per cent instead of 2 per cent earlier. Therefore, in order to raise excise duties, we must come to European wage standards. That's what we have to start with, not what the government does. That is why we will never support the law that goes into the pockets of our constituents.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u16	Let me use this question. To compare a few figures, please listen to them. So according to today's current order, a pack of unfiltered cigarettes in Ukraine costs 3 bracelets 25 copies, a pack of cigarettes in Russia 2 bracelets 21. The difference is pretty substantial -- almost 50 percent -- but that's the difference between taking risks, going across borders, hiring people who will drive them, then trading them. But after the adoption of the law, such a pack of cigarettes will cost 4 bracelets of 64 Ukrainian and 220 Russian. Thus, 200 percent of the income that I have been talking about can be paid for all the risks. The same is true of low - fat cigarettes. They're in Russia today with a filter of 3.73 in the translation into the bracelet, we have 5.23, we're still holding on. [[difference – 50 per cent]] After we're up, we're up, we're up, we're up, we're up, we're up, we're up, we're up, we're up, we're up, we're up, we're up, we're up, we're up, we're up, we're up, we're up, we're up, we're up, we're up, we're up, we're up, we're up, we're up, we're up, we're up, we're up, It's going to be smuggled. I assure you, dear fellows, let us approach these things with caution. I don't exactly agree with Mr. Pecklesenko. If you can raise the excise, you need it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u17	Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u18	Dear Alexander Vitalyevich, well, we know that Julia Timoshenko, she just hates the domestic manufacturer and does everything to roll him under the asphalt. And it's clear that by raising excises on cigarettes, people are not going to smoke any less, they're going to have to smoke anyway. The money to buy these cigarettes won't and will go, as you said, smuggling and smuggling from Russia. That is, the decision lobbies support, not the domestic producer, but the foreign Russian producer. Now I have a specific question: do you think it is that Mrs. Timoshenko is earning the Kremlin's political preferences for the future presidential campaign, or is she already working on the Kremlin's preferences? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u19	Mikhail Vasilovich, I think there's been a small economic error. Let's fix it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u20	Moisik Volodymir Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u21	Vladimir Moisik, MP “For Ukraine!” I'd like to give it to my colleague, Mr. Tchachu Roman.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u22	Roman Tkac, MP for Ukraine. Dear reporter, I would still like to come to the other side. Well, we realize that today on the calendar is December 3rd. Let's think about it theoretically. If even the law is passed today, it will be signed in there for 15 days, it will be December 20, and there is a question at all, and what is the price of this question, how much? For this law shall enter into force from the day of its signature. How much money we'll get by the end of the year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u23	Dear Mr. Roman, I will repeat what I said in my speech. In accordance with the Ukrainian Act on Excise Assembly Rates on Tobacco Products, we have the order of withdrawal: five days before the beginning of the month, these prices had to be declared. This can no longer be done in December. But even if you imagine that a government that, unfortunately, violates laws frequently in relation to a tax situation, with its internal instructions, has to declare them urgently, it will pay these taxes, excise duties, businesses will not be subject to the law until 15 January 2010. Thus, no change will be made to the 2009 budget. So if we're sincere and we want to finance the expenditure planned in the 2009 budget, we need to change the source, and since 2010, or maybe with the 2010 budget, let's go back to the issue of excise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u24	Odarchenko Yuri Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u25	Dear colleagues, we certainly need to mobilize all sources of budget replenishment, and I'm going to put in a very specific argument here. During the last days, there was an absolutely tense situation in the Highland region of Hersonian, where we had about a hundred people sick during the period. These are 29 adults, 16 health workers, and 56 children. 54 people have been hospitalized today. The previous diagnosis is acute respiratory viral disease. For the less populated area of Ukraine, these are absolutely catastrophic figures. The situation is critical, and a large group of medical professionals are being sent to the area, including anesthesiologist. Pregnant women are sent to the district hospital by an ambulance. And we can see that there's absolutely no medical facilities, no built-in infectious compartment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u26	Alexander Vitaliyovich, I realized that there was no question. So you're not answering in time. The questions come to an end. Have a seat, please. A report from the committee. Deputy Head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Oleg Valeriyovich Ljashko
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u27	Thank you, Your Honor Alexander Volodymyrovich. I'd like to, because there's a lot of important questions coming out of my colleague, and from others, I'd like to literally answer a few questions that have been raised here. It's about the neighbors. Mr. Schlapak, I want you to listen to this information. It's about the Excise situation in the neighborhood. Dear colleagues, since January 1, Russia has raised excise duties on tobacco by 30 percent, since January 1. So what Mr. Schlapak is talking about right now is what he's talking about today. A month later, Russia raises excise duties on tobacco by 30 percent, and we have cigarettes again cheaper than in Russia. That's the first one. The other one. The International Monetary Fund signed a loan agreement with Moldova for $500 million. One of the conditions for signing this, lending is raising excise duties on tobacco. Moldova from New Year’s Eve raises tobacco excises by about 40 percent. So when we raise these excises, we're just counting this time lie. So that our cigarettes won't be cheaper, cheaper in the world and cheaper than in Russia than in Moldova. Because they've been raising their excise since January 1. If we don't raise our excises now, we're going to have the cheapest cigarettes again in Europe and in the SND countries. Next: about raising prices. Colleague Pecklusenko, Alexander Mikolayovich, said that we're getting this money out of people's pockets. Yeah, we're pulling out, but who's pulling out? Since November 1, excise duties on tobacco have not risen, and the prices for cigarettes have risen. So tobacco companies, without waiting for excise increases, have raised the price of cigarettes by 1.5-2 bracelets, and this money is not going to the budget, this money, Mr. Romane, Tuck Roman, to you, this money goes to the pockets of the tobacco barons, and they have to go to the budget. As before, for 10 years they went to the pockets of the tobacco barons. And the government budget over the past year has received three billion excises on cigarettes, and the tobacco industry has made thirty billion. And this year, the government budget was given eight and a half billion in January-November, by the end of the year, it's going to be 10 billion dollars. One hundred thousand people die of onko each year. Oncological diseases, 90 percent of these diseases are caused by tobacco. We spend less on medicine than the tobacco companies that kill these people with the goods they produce, that's the price of the issue. Next, in terms of the decline in production, the tobacco industry has shown a decline in production -- 10 percent, which means it's the best situation. For example, light industry -- 30 percent of the decline, heavy industry, metallurgy -- that's where metallurgy, representatives of the coal industry, they'll confirm, they'll say how much decrease. And last year, tobacco produced 110 billion pieces of cigarettes in January-November, this year, 95 billion pieces, i.e. a minimum drop. With prices rising and excise revenues rising, that is, what will be the decline in production, or, for example, the reduction of workers. Dear Alexander Vitaliyovich, in the tobacco sector of Ukraine It's me to Mr. Schlapak, a representative of the President, in the tobacco sector of Ukraine in general, that there are three thousand people working in all factories, three thousand people. And he's dying of cancer caused by tobacco, a hundred thousand people. It's for comparison, so we can understand what we're talking about. And let the citizens of the country understand that. And yet another interesting fact is that in 2004, the tobacco industry in Ukraine produced 140 billion pieces of cigarettes, and the state budget was up to one and a half billion dollars. In 2004 In 2008, the tobacco industry produced 95 billion pieces of cigarettes in January-November, and the state budget accounted for almost 9 billion dollars. I mean, what am I talking about? Before they have to think about people's interests here first, not the interests of tobacco companies, they make billions on our mountain with you. 60 percent of men smoke in Ukraine, 40 percent of women smoke in Ukraine, the highest in the world. Poor Thailand, two-dollar pack of cigarettes at an average wage of $60. We have a pack of cigarettes in Ukraine that has recently cost less than a pack of ice cream.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u28	Alexander Valeriyovich, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u29	And we're talking about what we need to protect, you see, a father won't buy candy to a child. So the thing is, if he quits smoking because the prices for cigarettes are going to be high, then he's going to buy the kids candy, not a hen. And finally, the committee's decision. The Committee proposes partial support for the President's proposals and approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of a law amending the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2010 and the excise duty rate on tobacco products as a whole, with partial consideration of the President's proposals. In addition, taking into account the signing by the President of Ukraine of the laws amending the State Budget Act 2009 of October 23, 1688 and November 6th, the number 1715 in the case of the adoption of the law under consideration, with a view to eliminating the disagreements in the last edition of the State Budget 2009 Act, it is necessary to further vote on the proposal to balance the summary figures of the State Budget, taking into account the previously adopted laws, namely: the corresponding amendment to article 1 of the State Budget Act 2009 and the additions thereto. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u30	Sign up for questions. Semerak Ostap Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u31	I propose to support this bill. The argument that Oleg Lazko made is quite clear, and the problem of smoking must be tackled.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u32	Miroshenko Yuri Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u33	Dear Mr. Oleg, I'd like to welcome you to your birthday. Give God, your health, your balance, and your respect for the electorate. And that's what my question is. Please tell me, in order to increase the understanding of MPs when they vote, what is the relationship between the increase in excise duty and the tendency to engage in smoking, especially with regard to young people. Is there a dependence on whether it will have a positive effect or not, or do you not have such information? [[I'm talking about raising excise on the number of people who smoke.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u34	Thank you, Mr. Yuri, for the professional question. The relationship between tobacco prices and the number of people who smoke is direct. The higher the price for cigarettes, the less people who smoke. During the last year, when you and I raised excises, 7 percent of the people surveyed quit smoking. And about young people. You know, respectable colleagues, respectable friends, 12-year-olds with a cigarette in their teeth and a bottle of beer in their hands -- especially. And then we want to have a healthy generation, to have educated people and so on. And when we make the prices for cigarettes not available to young people, we'll make them less smokeable for young people. As a result, the country was less sick and less beneficial. They brought more benefits to the country. That is, the relationship between the price of cigarettes and the number of people who smoke is direct, direct. And the higher the price of cigarettes, the less people can afford to buy those cigarettes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u35	Zibenko Peter Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u36	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko, head of the Ukrainian Veterans Organization Council Your Honor, I'd like to address you both as a representative of the committee and as a representative of the ruling coalition. And my question is, as long as we use the problems of people, veterans, the problems associated with the 65th anniversary of the Great Victory of Fascism to bully people? What am I talking about? The draft changes to the State budget, in addition to the issue of excise duties on tobacco, have invested 26 million dollars in the production of medals dedicated to the 65th anniversary of victory over fascism. This was specifically done so that the funds would not be allocated by linking them to tobacco excises. How can we understand this question? Because I understand we voted for excise duty and then we turned to the fact that we didn't allocate the money to make the medals. I want to understand this pattern.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u37	Dear Peter Stepanovich, the additional revenue will not only be for the production of medals for veterans, but I would also like to stress the financing of measures related to the eradication of the disaster in the western areas of Ukraine, and for funding from Ukraine’s foreign representation, diplomatic representation, and funding of the Ministry of Defence’s programmes. So these are the funds that are focused on the country's primary needs.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u38	Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u39	Dear colleague, at first as a joke I would like to say that you compared ice cream with tobacco and cigarettes, then ice cream eats much as harmful. But it's serious now. The argument I fully agree with, yours, is that before the increase in excise duties on tobacco cigarettes began to cost 1.5-2 bracelets more. What does that mean? This means that there is no real link between excise duty and the price of producers. And this is serious evidence. But I have a second question. This is how you feel about another argument that has been heard today about the fact that if there is an increase in excise duty, smuggling is increasing. Maybe we should ask a different question, if there's a problem with increased smuggling, it's a problem with customs, not excise, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u40	Dear Oleg Aleksandrovitch, thank you for the professional question. By the way, all the manufacturers are saying that there's going to be an increase in excise duties, there's going to be smuggling. And when they raised cigarette prices in November without elevated excise duties, why weren't they worried about smuggling? Because the state of excises did not raise, and they raised the price of cigarettes. So actually, talking about increased smuggling is not true. Because if the manufacturers of tobacco products in Ukraine were concerned about smuggling, they would not raise the price of cigarettes. Or, for example, the excise is raised by 50, and the price of cigarettes is raised by 2 bracelets, so why don't you raise the price of cigarettes by 52 cents, for example? And they raise the bracelets by one and a half because they actually make billions of dollars in their budget. In addition, there is no national producer for smuggling in Ukraine. These are all transnational corporations that in Russia, which in Ukraine are the same ones holding tobacco factories, they're the ones who're going to drive the smuggling themselves?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u41	Thank you. Let's move on to decision-making.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u42	Please be careful!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u43	The president of Ukraine made five proposals to the law. Please take your comparison tables. The first sentence of the President of Ukraine refers to a change in the name of the law. The Special Committee recommends rejecting this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u44	Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u45	President No. 1 of Ukraine's proposal is to vote. I'd like to make a statement. The President of Ukraine's proposal is for a vote, please identify yourself. [[10:37:36]] For-37 The proposal of the President of Ukraine is not supported. President of Ukraine's second proposal. The Professional Committee also recommends not to support it. The president's second proposal is for a vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:38:04]] For-22. Not supported. President of Ukraine's third proposal. The committee recommends that we consider it. President No. 3 of Ukraine's proposal is to vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:38:33]] For 224 The President's proposal is not supported. There is an offer to return to the vote. I'm making this proposal, please be sure. [[10:39:03]] For 228 We're back. The President of Ukraine's proposal No. 3 concerning article 1, paragraph 6, is to vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:39:26]] For 231 The proposal by the President of Ukraine is supported. President of Ukraine's fourth proposal. A professional committee recommends that it be included in a slightly different edition. I bet on the vote on President of Ukraine's proposal number four. I'd like to make up my mind. [[10:39:58]] For-30 The President's proposal is not supported. A committee with partial consideration for the President of Ukraine's proposals is voted on. I'd like to make up my mind. Turn the system on. [[10:40:34]] For 226 President of Ukraine's number four proposal in the committee's editorial form is taken into account. [[Noise Nodes]] Decision taken. The President's 5th proposal for Appendix One. President number five's proposal is for a vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:41:41]] For-56 The proposal of the President of Ukraine is not supported. Proposal No. 6 of the President of Ukraine refers to Appendix No. 3. President No. 6's proposal is for a vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:42:18]] For-27 The proposal of the President of Ukraine is not supported. So we've considered all of the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. Of the six proposals, one of the President's proposals is fully taken into account and so on. The second proposal is taken into account in the committee's drafting with partial consideration of the committee's proposal. I would like to vote on the adoption of the draft Ukrainian Act on the 2009 State Budget and on excise duty rates on tobacco products as a whole in a new edition. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:43:15]] For 211 The decision is not taken. Please make an offer, Lyszko Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u46	Alexander Volodymyrovich, reverend Alexander Volodymyrovich, is proposed to return to this vote first. And to take into account, the proposal is made by the national deputy of the Tweaker to provide for the introduction of the 1st of January law concerning the increase in the rates of the excise congregation. Not since the publication, but since January 1, 2010. And with this proposal in mind, vote on the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u47	Oleg Valeriyovich, please take your seats. Please, Alexander Vitaliovich Slapak's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u48	Dear National Deputies! I want to pay attention to just one circumstance. If we vote on this proposal, we have a balanced state budget law. So we still have to find 190 million to get the veterans to do the medals, the helicopters to repair and so on. So either you need to look for them somewhere extra and discuss this problem. Or in this form, we do not save the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u49	Thank you, Alexander Vitaliovich. Dear colleagues, I'd like to read the title again, the full title of the law, so that you can concentrate. The law is called: “To amend the laws of Ukraine on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2009” and “On excise duty rates on tobacco products”. We cannot introduce a standard for the State Budget Act 2009 as of 1 January 2010. He finishes his work at this very moment. Dear colleagues, I ask you to listen carefully simply when speaking. Please, Oleg Valeriyovich, take your seats. Please refer to the proposals for a further decision-making procedure. Please, Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, well, we can't go on about anything. Well, it's just impressive when the deputy head of the budget committee makes a proposal, as Alexander Vitalievich was absolutely right to say, which balances the budget, which cannot be drawn to the budget, and so on. Well, if you want to, but you can't, it's the same. As the Law on the Upgrading of the Socstadtrates has been passed, we do not want to enter into force. Well, if we keep walking around, trampling on the law, under the Constitution, we'll lose the state. What are we doing? There is no solution, since the vast majority of parliamentarians of healthy people do not want to favour foreign producers, but rather to bury their production to ensure that people are unemployed, without pay, and that the budgets remain without taxes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u51	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u52	Thank you. Yuri Karmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. Ladies and gentlemen, you and I are a little confused about what we mean when we support foreign producers. We take foreign tobacco, we don't stimulate it here, development and cultivation once. We're all bringing foreign components here and making it look like these are our factories, which are a few times cheaper to produce all of these. We're signing up today at the highest level that we can't handle smuggling. In all the countries of the world, smuggling is a criminal offence. We have you, you see, quoted from the rostrum by the deputy head of the Secretariat, that's the fourth part of everything that's sold in the state. How could that be? That's why here we're amending two laws: “On excise duty rates on tobacco products”, they can be raised from the first number; and the second, on changes to the state budget, it can now be accepted. So let's divide this, let's go back to voting and.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u53	Bellous Irina Anatolyevna. Zibenko Peter Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u54	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko, head of the Ukrainian Veterans Organization Council My dear colleagues, I'm making this proposal: because this proposal, which was put to the vote, did not find the necessary support, I suggest that only the amendments to the 2009 State Budget Act should be selected and that only one direction should be set aside in these changes: the allocation of an additional 26 million to produce medals dedicated to the 65th anniversary of the Victory over Fascism. And believe me, this is a very important question, we need to make a series of 2 million medals. The President's order on this point is already there, and this process needs to start in 2009, otherwise we won't be able to do it in 2010. So my proposal is to separate the State Budget Act and the indicator that relates to the cost of making Jubilee medals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u55	Cory Vitaly Terentiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u56	Please pass the word to my colleague Oleg Lašk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u57	Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u58	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Alexander Volodymyrovich, let's go back to the vote, discuss the proposals that are echoing from colleagues, and try to find compromise. The law can't be dropped, the price of the issue is tens and hundreds of thousands of people on the mountain whose lives are used by tobacco companies. I'm very sorry to see tobacco lobbyists coming out of the skin today to prevent the possibility of making cigarettes inaccessible, especially for young people. They're in the net, these tobacco companies, they're taking them out from under, and for the rest of his life, he's been smoking and sitting on the hook of these companies. And these tiny little pieces are brought here to the hall and to the billions that they make on the mountain, in people's tears.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u59	Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u60	Thank you. Please pass the word to Chechtovo.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u61	Dear Alexander Vladimirovich! Dear colleagues! What a cynical power. Here. They're just happy when they raise the stakes on gasoline, on drugs, on cigarettes, when prices go up, and they never feel happy when they have to raise their wages to protect people socially. I think this is where the point is to move on, because now millions of our voters are waiting for the next law to be passed, which is to overcome the veto on the moratorium on rising prices and tariffs for medical supplies and medical supplies. Let's move on to this law, let's overcome the veto here and protect our people from vachanalization of prices, because the government is not protecting, it's being manipulated to the pen. There were no marshmallows in the outbreak! You'll have to think about how to control it!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u62	Dear colleagues, most of the time we returned to the discussion, there was only one suggestion to return to the decision. Proposal for a decision, Alexander Vitaliovich Schlapak.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u63	Dear Lord Chairman! Dear National Deputies! I'd like you to listen to the President's proposals once again. The law provides for changes to the budget: to the special fund – 5.5 billion, to the general budget – 600 million there. We're stuck in one small aspect, 191 million excises from tobacco. Let's split the two questions," the President suggested: "Let's separate 191 million, separate ourselves from the excise on tobacco and tobacco, and this 191 million as a substitute for the state budget economy, we have it." And so we're going to pack in one package of changes to the 2009 budget, we're going to leave this law alone, and we're going to argue about excise duties. I'd like to go back to this proposal as well. It seems to me that it would help us solve all the problems in this room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u64	Thank you, Alexander Vitaliovich. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to tell you that the Supreme Council of Ukraine has passed a law, one law, amending the laws on the State Budget and the rates of the excise assembly. You and I have considered the remarks of the President of Ukraine. One was fully counted, one was partially counted. We're not making a new law right now. I'm voting on a motion to return to the vote. [[10:53:24]] For 208 The decision is not taken. The law is being promulgated. Oh, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. A statement came from two factions: “Litvina Block” and the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine – regarding the break. I consulted with factions. They're asking for applications now, and they may no longer be consulting, they've already consulted. From two factions for the statement, I give the floor to Catherine Timofievni Vashtuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u65	Dear colleagues, I'd like to have your attention for three minutes. Recently, the Constitutional Court of Presidential Affairs stopped action, or declared unconstitutional the Act on the Prevention of the Negative Effects of the World Financial Crisis on the Development of the Agrarian Sector of Ukraine. What does that mean? Dear colleagues, this law is pervasive. We've hit the veto twice. The law provided for the regulation of prices for various services to the village, which provided for the continuation of the fixed tax and the value added tax for peasants. And this law provided that the President and his advisors were particularly dissatisfied with it, which is the extension of loans to the peasants by those banks that received 150 billion refinancing. And for peasants, to prolong loans at such a difficult time when prices have fallen, when the support of the state is reduced to the minimum, when today the agricultural sector is very difficult to survive, you can't. We have a nation created for the existence and enrichment of the banking system. Banks today that are designed to refinance have they given money to people? Did they lend loans to Ukraine’s economy? Did they give it to the country? They, I'm sure, when the normal authorities come and check, will find that most of those funds are in offshores, they're in bankers' accounts and those who help them. Dear colleagues, we ask the agrarians of everyone in the hall to lay down this law for the next session week, which we are working with the Committee on Customs and Tax Policy, and the agrarian committee supports that injustice in relation to peasants. Because we just miss taxing peasants with all 18 taxes at such a difficult time for the village. I don't understand our President or his advisors here. How can we speak for the restoration of Ukraine by burying the Ukrainian village? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u66	Thank you, Catherine Timothy. It is announced for consideration by the Ukrainian Law on the Moratorium on raising prices and tariffs for medical supplies and medical supplies, with proposals from the President of Ukraine. [[Registration number 3426]] According to Schlapak, Alexander Vitaliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u67	Dear Mr. Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The President of Ukraine did not support the Ukrainian Law on the Moratorium on the Promotion of Prices and Tariffs for Medical Devices and Medical Devices, as it considers it to be economically unfounded and to have a number of negative socio-economic consequences, namely. First, we have conducted calculations and serious consultations with Ukrainian domestic pharmaceutical producers, so here's the risk that pharmaceutical companies will stop producing the vast majority of the drugs that are included in the national list of essential drugs. Let me give you some examples. ZAT The pharmaceutical company “Darnica” manufactures 87 appointments of medicines contained in the national list, with a moratorium on medicines unprofitable, 70 per cent and 80 per cent. The pharmaceutical company “Health”, the city of Kharkiv, manufactures 191 medicines from the national census. With the introduction of a moratorium on price increases, 115 appointments become unprofitable, 60 percent. Arterium produces 35 medicines, of which 35 27 will be unprofitable – 80 percent. The Borszag chemical-pharmaceutical plant, Lekhim and so on, will not take up your time. Today, domestic drug producers have a cost of 10-20 percent, while enterprises that have upgraded their production have an average of 13 percent. At the same time, over the period 2008-9 years, the cost of production of basic medicines increased by an average of 60 per cent, including an increase in raw material costs, between 20 per cent and 100 per cent, transport services from 20 per cent to 50 per cent, and production costs. The devaluation of the national currency played a significant role in this increase in self - worth. The left part, about 90 percent of domestic pharmaceuticals, is made from imported raw materials. In addition, almost all related productions depend on imports, ranging from packaging to instructions on medicines printed on imported paper. This is by no means taken into account when the law is put in place, according to which the implementation of medical devices and medical devices is to be carried out at the price of July 1, 2008. In the meantime, I recall that the US dollar was at the end of July 1, 2008, at the end of 2008, at the end of the year, at the end of the year, at the end of the year, at the end of the year. That is, the value of the foreign currency in question increased by 65 percent. Secondly, the effect of the introduction of the law may be to stop the release of most domestic drugs. The proportion of medicines included in the national census, which becomes unprofitable under the terms of adoption, provided the law enters into force, is between 30 percent and 70 percent of the production on each enterprise, as I have already mentioned. Thus, stopping their release will increase the cost of producing the rest of the drugs due to an increase in the share of the production cost. So there is a significant risk that the process of closing down the production of individual categories of drugs will become cumulative, so-called dominoes, and will result in the cessation of production by large pharmaceutical companies, where the volume of production costs is quite significant. Thirdly, the law threatens to stop the innovation of pharmaceuticals. Here he wanted to pay particular attention to our discussion with Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin when we talked about the Law on Soccer, and he said that I had not been told anything about innovative Ukrainian pharmaceuticals, and I promised to answer. Jury Anatoliyovich, due to the negative cost of drug production, most pharmaceutical companies will stop their production upgrades, cancel innovative projects for the development of new medicines. The development of new drugs will be halted by the laundering of pharmaceuticals and the reduction of all nonessential costs to preserve production. I'll just give you one example. It refers to the VAT “Farmak”. The VAT “Farmak” has developed and released an anti-Amazon medicine. He has been working on this since 1993. Today, 5.8 million packages are being released, and at a price of 10, 87 pieces are being released. Although the cost of implementing this drug, if you return on July 1, 2008, you will receive 15 copies of it. Thus, since 2006, Farmak has been trying to register this drug in the European table of chemicals in order to be able to use it at the Tamflu level. This has already been spent on today — 2.3 million euros. [[Listen to the numbers]] Experts estimate that another two years 2010 and 2011 and around 11 million euros will have to be spent in order to gain the same status as Tamflu. Although our experts say he's no worse. These are the innovation costs that go into the preparation of just one drug. Surely, all of them, once again, will be put to rest. Fourthly, Ukrainian producers will be deprived of market opportunities for developed countries, especially European countries. I'd like you to listen to that argument. I would like to remind you that the President's law provides for the creation of a new control body, the State Agency for licensing and the production of medical supplies and medical supplies. Personally, I do not understand what today’s State Inspectorate has done to control the quality of medical supplies. It is not clear why the government introduced this agency as opposed to the previous public service. But it is also clear that a change in structures, which in principle are not fixed by laws, will put an end to the negotiation process for Ukraine's entry into the International System for the Cooperation of Pharmaceutical Inspections, called PICS. The entry procedure should be completed by the end of 2010. Because PICS rules do not allow the integration process to last more than six years. Failure to join the PICS on domestic manufacturers will continue to place severe restrictions on European markets, which adversely affect their competitiveness. I'll remind you that we've been running this process of integration since 2004, six years goes by in 2010. And we've been warned the last time we switched one agency to another, that the next time we just won't be. Fifthly, the direct result of the signing of the law will be the suspension of the activities of all pharmacies, at least for a week. Pharmacies will be required to invent the balance of medical supplies and correct valid supply contracts with distributors according to the level of prices for medical supplies as of July 1, 2008. At the same time, distributors of medical devices have to reconcile prices with manufacturing companies for already placed on a retail pharmaceutical network, or ensure their return to manufacturers. During this long period of time, pharmacies will not work, and citizens will not be able to obtain the necessary medical supplies under the conditions of the spread of influenza and acute respiratory infections. And finally, sixth. Let me remind you, dear colleagues, that today, according to Ukrainian legislation, the government has all the pricing mechanisms for basic medical devices. I will refer to article 8.9 of the Law on Prices and Prices, which says that government in cases where it deems necessary has the right to apply both fixed and marginal prices. The Cabinet of Ministers of March 25, 2009, established a national list of medical supplies and devices and, I emphasize, the order in which prices for medical supplies and medical supplies are formed. The decree of October 17, 2008 sets out the marginal supply and retail allowances for medical supplies and medical supplies that are included in the national census. I agree that these documents should probably be processed, but once they are processed, we will get a normal, regulatory field for the pharmaceutical industry. And we will not apply the principle of fighting the guillotine. The President wants to hear these arguments and not overtake the President's veto. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u68	Is there any question?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u69	There's a question. Please log in. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u70	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Alexander Vitaliyovich, of course, if you remember that Carmazin from this rostrum called for no moratorium, since no moratorium on old age can be established. That's ridiculous. It caused people to panic, it caused drug buyout, and so on. But I fully support the fact that you can't get over the veto right now. I'm going back to all the citizens who can hear me because they're going to have a reverse effect. I just wanted to ask why we, Ukraine, and in particular, such a line was up until recently and to the President, opening the door to all the foreign, all foreign in five minutes here, in five minutes. In the morning, 80 percent of palm oil that is harmful to the baby’s body is concentrated in milk. And we're talking about where it's coming from.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u71	Dear Yuri Anatolyovich, I thank you for your support for the positions I spoke of in this rostrum, and I am glad that we are taking our only position on this issue. I can't agree with you that the President is now taking up the position of maximum admission to the Ukrainian foreign market. I could make a lot of arguments when the President categorically denies it, beginning with meat and ending with others. This is a topic of another and probably a broader discussion, if you think it's necessary to have a separate discussion on import and export balance, let's do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u72	Alexandrovska Alla Alexandrovna
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u73	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Alexander Vitalievich, but you did everything you could to intimidate Ukrainian citizens, to intimidate these absolutely incredible consequences that are expected to happen if the law is passed. But that's not true. The point is that the State must regulate prices, not prohibit them, not simply regulate them. Why in all of Europe, you'll go to every city and you'll see the same price in different pharmacies for the same medicine because. ?? State regulation. Why are you saying that 60 percent of the drugs we're going to take at a company in Kharkiv will be non-profitable? Of course, if the State does not reimburse the price difference, it will certainly be non-profitable. Why in the public budget today we put $2 billion into reimbursement of the difference in tariffs in the JCC, i.e. if the tariff does not reimburse utilities, the State pays $2 billion. Why don't you want to see this, the need for this drug production? Why don't you want to bring a guest in?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u74	It's strange that I fully agree with all the arguments that you've just been talking about, except for one that I'm having a panic. It seems to me that I am talking about the absolutely real consequences that will arise in the state under the adoption of the law. As for the fact that there is a need for all other European states to regulate prices for medicines, it is certain. It is also in Ukraine. I'm underlining. The Law on Prices and Prices provides, and I would like to support you, executive authorities and local self - government bodies, which by their decisions set prices there or tariffs on goods and services to a extent lower than the size of economically sound expenditure, are obliged to compensate the subject of the difference. Let's figure out in this law, check the value of Darnica or Farmac, and compensate in this law, and then predict millions of funds to compensate them for these drugs, if they are in the national census and are needed by our people. This will be a balanced decision. But he's not here today. We're just making a decision that's going to lead to the fact that without that compensation, these respectable enterprises are going to stop producing these drugs.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u75	Sebravsky Paul Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u76	Alexander Vitaliovich, well, as they say, wanted it as good as ever. In fact, for today, the moratorium that is being discussed does not solve any questions. Because you're absolutely right, you're saying that Ukrainian farmers will stop releasing drugs that go into the national list, but you're not saying that imported drugs won't be imported yet. And 75 percent of them in the price structure are imported. And it's not possible to return to July 01, 2008. And do we have to separate or do the state have to exercise control? Absolutely. There is the Law on Prices and Prices. There is a Civil Code that provides for state regulation. And let this inspection that we have in place do its work and agree on pricing, set parameters. Then it will be the right and the right decision of the deputies, and everything else is just populism and the way to nowhere. That's actually why I'm not addressing you like this, Alexander Vitaliovich, as I am talking to respectable colleagues with whom I've been sleeping.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u77	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u78	Who say that, well, this political situation, elections. Friends! We simply need to approach these questions carefully. And it's not lobbyism, it's just common sense. I'm just talking to the common sense of the Ukrainian people's deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u79	Paul Ivanovich, allow me to use your question to reemphasize the following point. Dear National Deputies! I'm going to show you a diagram that tells you that 65 percent of the medicine in packages is used in Ukrainian and only 35 in foreign. Instead, if we take the money aspect, 70 percent of the money goes abroad because they use expensive drugs, and only 30 percent is left for our businesses. Why I'm talking about our businesses. Because it was possible for our companies to test the cost of production. We cannot today ask the Germans or the Poles what the value of the product is and how much the importer makes in Ukraine. Yet here, Paul Ivanovich, I must say that we cannot predict the behavior of foreigners. Perhaps they too will leave the market. And maybe considering that they have a much better cushion than we do, they're going to replace the niches from which the Ukrainian manufacturer is going to go. They can suffer until, I'm sure, in a week, in two months, the situation will be protected and we'll still return to normal pricing. But getting them out of these niches will be extremely difficult. That's why I think.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u80	Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u81	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues! Honorable reporter and respectable voters who, for whom this law is vitally necessary and without whom, unfortunately, they cannot survive. Please give me the answer to two logical questions that arise from your report. First of all, why does the National Security and Defence Council not worry that we have lost completely all independence of pharmaceuticals if 75 percent of foreign medicine, if 90 percent of our component production is foreign production? What independence can we talk about in our country, and what must we do to do so? And the second logical question. Answer the offer, what and who are we protecting? [[This is the bill of our colleague Simonek.]] The few families that produce these drugs, or the 46 million that can't buy these drugs? How, then, can we do so? Where you can get the money to buy that kind of expensive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u82	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Well, first of all, it's about a few manufacturers. 300,000 people are employed in the pharmaceutical sector of Ukraine, 300,000 and many owners. For example, the VAT "Borschtagukka" on which the President was when he made the decision is a national enterprise. The owners are the entire labour force. Keep that in mind. And I think that what they're doing without the help of the state, here, unfortunately, you're right, they're saving their businesses and today they're producing 65 percent of the entire Ukrainian market, we have to go all the way down here to the Supreme Radio low on them for the work they're doing. As far as the value of the product is concerned, 90 percent. You're right here, but I emphasize, 90 percent of the cost of any medical product is the primary ingredient. These are extremely harmful productions that are mainly located in India and China. It makes no sense to move them to Ukraine, nor does any European State. But you're right in one thing, unfortunately, too large, we're not finished with what Mrs. Alexandrovsky and I said, government regulation of medicines prices for the poorest of the population. It's a separate law, it's a separate idea, a separate regulation that lets work together. But instead of protecting the poor 46 million, we're bringing them in.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u83	Grigorovich Lilia Stepanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u84	Lilia Grigorovich, group “For Ukraine!” Dear Alexander Vitaliyovich, can you please tell us how you can predict the situation for the future? For almost a year now, there is a new structure in operation at Kabmin, the State Department, which was created to violate existing legislation. The Cabinet of Ministers does indeed have an enormous number of regulatory mechanisms that influence the price on medicines, resulting from the actual legislation that has been reported. And yet, when, literally, three weeks ago there was the first wave of the epidemic, and the Prime Minister personally demanded that there be medicine in the pharmacies and there were certain prices, tell me, was there an oxolin ointment at those prices, or were there masks, or was it all? It wasn't. And who's going to predict and assume the responsibility that after the vote of this so-called moratorium on the 70s, not ours, and 90 substances in pharmacies at the second and third-watts, there'll be nothing at all, because there are no government pharmacies, and they, the vast network, really, are communal? [[Not ours]] And for my colleagues. Yeah, with the border, you can buy everything by.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u85	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u86	Yes, you can buy everything at the same price abroad, but there are prescriptions for drugs. Only 30 percent of what we buy in pharmacies goes to the doctor’s prescriptions and everything else in the hospital. So, by the second wave, will we not be able to take our people away from the pharmacy moratorium? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u87	Well, Mrs. Lilia, I have every conviction that we will make chaos to the second wave, to the third wave, to any day tomorrow, from the moment the President's veto is over. But let me just say again, use your question to explain one thing about what regulation we have. The Cabinet of Ministers has formulated a list of 215 drugs that people today believe are most needed. He doesn't need to run a registration system. He began to do so, but the draft decree has not yet been adopted. The registration process means that each manufacturer of these drugs must prove to the appropriate inspection the cost of this drug with a small allowance. Let's do this and then adjust the price for every drug that we think is necessary for our people from this national census. The rest is an open market, let someone buy themselves the expensive drugs they want. All of this can be developed within the framework of existing legislation and not in the design of a new mechanism that will lead to chaos. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u88	Thank you, Alexander Vitaliovich. Have a seat, please. The replica. National Deputy Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u89	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond with a reply to the remarks made by the first deputy head of the Skull Department, Alexander Vitaliyovich, on innovative technologies. I am personally addressing you and President Viktor Andryovich Yushchenk to remind you of our glorious history, the very history of Ukraine in Odessa. Since 1886, there have been the first bacteriological stations led by Meschenkov, then Bardach has tested the vaccines against the leprosy produced by Louis Pasteur. They've brought security to the world. There were others in the world, and today we're bringing vaccines. Before the liquidation in Odessa, there was a bacteriological institute called Mechchenkov. So that you know that he's been releasing 35 appointments, including the most serious vaccines. I want to encourage you to join what Timoshenko is doing right now to update the production of domestic vaccines. Thank you. And I turned to him and got support there.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u90	A report from the Haydayav Committee, Yuri Alexanderovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u91	Reverend Alexander Volodymyrovich! Masterful colleagues! The Health Committee reviewed the proposals of the President of Ukraine, examined the state of price increases, worked on all the arguments of pharmacists, and concluded that rising prices for medical devices were only partly due to an increase in the US dollar, for example. Underneath this, there is an artificial excess in the price of medical supplies. Yes, as the U.S. dollar rose between September 2008 and July 2009, the cost of drugs increased by 65 percent to 90 percent, and sometimes twice, and more. Pri. At a stable U.S. dollar exchange in July-November 2009, the cost of drugs rose by 10 to 12 percent. That's a fact. Prices are rising because they're increasing their customs value. And what's in it, what's the risk, what's the dollar rate, and so on, is the secret that only suppliers know and the average citizen has to pay for. Another moment. The control of the pharmaceutical market. The rules and prices dictate about 15 distributors who hold more than 80 percent of the drug market. The latest events with the flu have shown a great deal of who and what they are earning. Antiviral and antifungal prices, antibacterial and so forth have increased by more than a third. There was no objective force for this. And masks -- they weren't in pharmacies at all, or they were being implemented five times as expensive as they are. You know all this. There is a clear violation of pricing laws and an artificial excess of prices. The results of recent tests testify to this. Almost 1 out of 3 pharmacies had price hikes. And this is because a limited list of medicines for which prices have been tested has been publicly announced that such tests will take place. And there are so many violations. What, then, about this period when no one was controlling the price? In view of the fact that the minimum wage is lower today, and the debt to pay wages, the scholarship continues to rise, the unjustified increase in the price of medicines and medical supplies leads to the impossibility of the vast majority of citizens to obtain the necessary medicines. And the state simply needs to intervene in this situation. The imposition of a moratorium on the price of medicines and medical supplies is a necessary and temporary measure, which is only introduced before government regulation of medicines prices. In fact, this law says that prices should be regulated by the State and that the regulatory mechanism should be transparent, economically balanced and adequate. Under the Ukrainian Law “On the Moratorium for the Promotion of Prices and Tariffs for Medical Devices and Products of Medical Purpose”, citizens will receive medicines at affordable prices and Ukraine will receive a European model of government regulation of prices for medical devices and medical devices. In view of the foregoing, the Ukrainian Supreme Council Committee on Health Services proposes rejecting the proposals of the President of Ukraine and overcoming the veto. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u92	Please ask the co-rapporteur. Pierre Viacheslav Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u93	Deeply respected Yuri Alexandrovich, please tell us, we just heard a statement by the President's representative, he told us how our representatives will be affected, etc., by industry. Tell me, at least one drug of Ukrainian farm factories is registered somewhere in the world, I mean the EU, not the CIS, but the EU? That's the first question. And secondly, does the President know, I would like him to know, like the representative of the President, that in the dollar equivalent I personally conducted a study, in the dollar equivalent of the 2005-2006 and 2009, they should not have grown, or if they grew by 2-3 per cent, and they grew by an average of 300 per cent among domestic producers? I would like the answers to these questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u94	Thank you very much. Reverend Vejacheslav Grigoryevich, on the first question I'll answer you: no. Because they're not registered. On the second question, I will answer the following: first of all, I will answer the High Representative of the President to my very distinguished Alexander Evgeneevich, who, unfortunately, in his report, talked all the time about the problems of businessmen, businessmen, business problems, but why didn't he take into account the problems of people, by the way, we have more than 46 million in Ukraine. Alexander Evgenyevich, these people, most of the people, they can't buy drugs, they can't buy them. I want to remind you that in my time, I was the head of the ambulance hospital, five years in a row, and I often go there. You know, it comes to relatives of the sick who are in a state of resuscitation asking, "Give me a guarantee that he will survive, either prepare money for medicine or for funerals." Thank you. By the way, according to Vejacheslav Grigorievich's answer, if I may, I'm familiar with this table. I saw this chart, the work was very big. So there was an analysis of prices in the 2005-6 and 2009 dollar equivalents, and I would like to reiterate Professor Predérie's words that, on average, the price rise in the dollar is 300 per cent equivalent to that of domestic producers. I've seen this table and I've been involved in its development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u95	Karpuk Vladimir Georgievich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u96	Vladimir Karpuk, deputy group “For Ukraine”. Dear Yuri Alexandrovich, you know that out of the 12 members of the committee at that meeting there were seven and four votes in favour of overcoming the President's veto, that's for information. Are you an experienced health organizer, Minister, please tell us that this system, which is in Ukraine, regulates prices for medical devices corresponded to a European model? It's not the main reason. And basically, this law contains two parts: one is a price moratorium, and the other is a price policy proposal, because, in fact, there is no such system, and therefore we have these huge price hikes, because trying to impose restrictions on wholesale or marginal prices that were there does not lead to, in fact, to lowering and providing the necessary medicines. Another problem is how to provide medicine to the rural population, where 18 percent of pharmacies and 32 percent of the population go.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u97	I understand your question. Dear Vladimir Grigoryevich, I will also answer you as a high-class professional. We have cinnamon in the net, we don't have a market, and unfortunately, I have to say, we have a market. Again, the flu epidemic showed this when neither people went to pharmacies. Like in the market: yeah, more people, that means we sell pork. This is our country, and I don't think Russia has a regulator that regulates the price of drugs. Of course, that's rude. Whoever wants it, they bet as much. And considering that, as you know better than me, 15 distributors, it's not that hard to agree. That's the first one. Secondly, you know some other facts that, by the way, many deputies have asked me questions. In a number of standing pharmacies, there are two pharmacies next door, and there are about one and a half different prices. So, Vladimir Grigoryevich, we know that, we checked.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u98	Yuri Alexanderovich, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u99	In the pharmacies of the different regions, drugs vary in price by 2 or more. If there are other questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u100	Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich, final question.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u101	Oleg Zarubinsky, Block of Lithuania. Dear Yuri Alexanderovich, we all see and we all know that the lobbying of businessmen from the Foundation can only be compared by their power to the tobacco and banking lobby. The relationship here is completely direct: the more profits, the stronger the foreheads and lobbyists; the stronger the foreheads, the more profits. I have a very simple question. I agree with you that a very vivid example was that of this flu - related panic. When the mask, whose self-sustainability is obviously 10 copies, is officially sold in a row of pharmacies, not from under the field, but officially sold for 4, for 5 and 6 bracelets. By the way, the prosecutor's office is supposed to be doing this, not buying big villas in Baden-Baden. It's a question of the Attorney General's Office. I have a question. Have your profile committee give us a position, price dynamics. Let's make this public, transparent information for everyone and, above all, for the media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u102	Thank you very much. Oleg Aleksanderovich, this price dynamic for domestic drugs I'm ready if Vejaceslav Grigoryevich doesn't mind giving you this table today. That's the first one. You've basically responded to what I have to say. By the way, it's about our domestic producers. For the sake of interest, I want to say. Remember, we passed the excellent Braille Act, which is necessary for blind people, and 50,000 people use it. There were deaths when people took the wrong ones, he didn't see them, and they died because they were taking other drugs. There you go. I received a letter from the President of the Blind Society. It was approached by almost all the Western firms that we represent on the Ukrainian market and consulted on how to do better, how to survive, and neither our pharmaceutical company, nor I have an official letter. [[It's not worth it, by the way.]] So they hope that after 1 January, when they will still need to produce these Braille packages, they will somehow. There'll be a lobby again, they'll come out here with us to the Supreme Council, and they'll ask us to do something with you again.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u103	Yuri Alexanderovich, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u104	Overcoming the veto is not going to be a big deal. Yeah, it's hard in the country, a little over-reach is going to go down, and there's just going to be profit. And I ask you to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u105	Thank you, Yuri Alexanderovich, sit down, please. Let's move on to making a decision. Honorary colleagues, the President of Ukraine, have made one suggestion to this law: to repeal the Ukrainian Law on Moratorium for the raising of prices and tariffs for medical devices and medical devices. The President of Ukraine's proposal is for a vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:33:36]] For -8 The President's proposal is not supported. The President's veto was proposed by a committee of profile. The proposal for a profile committee is based on a vote on the veto. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:34:05]] For 218. The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party 150, Timoshenko Yulia Block 14, Our Ukraine People's Self-Defense 7, Communists 27, Litvina Block-19, non-fractional-1. The law has been revoked. Please, on the basis of the faction vote on one man at a time. Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, well, are simply impressed by the cynicism of the Government of Yulia Timoshenko. On the one hand, the country was impoverished. On the other hand, almost a third of the industry lies, people do not work, there is one breadwinner left in the family. Thirdly, price vacchanals. And when it was necessary to protect people, at least parts of the access to drugs were not voted on. It is understandable, therefore, why the population of Ukraine has decreased by one and a half million over the last five years of orange power. It's a veritable orange genocide! Yushchenko and Timoshenko, why should we watch the '30s? Today's orange genocide and in order to stop this orange genocide, it took courage to vote for the veto. Let people know what has made medicines inaccessible today the BUT faction and the faction "Our Ukraine" - Yushchenko and Timoshenko. Let the people say thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u107	Weaving Roman Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u108	Carpuku please pass it on to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u109	Please, National Deputy Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u110	Vladimir Karpuk, MP “For Ukraine!” The issue of regulating prices in Ukraine for medicines and medical supplies is extremely important. We know there's a list of the national 215 essential drugs, but there's really no clear model. There's no regulator we talked about. Yet, to impose only a moratorium and to introduce prices that were set for July 1, 2008, rather than solve the problem, it drives it into a dead end. Because according to the nomenclature, 70 percent of the medicines that are needed are needed, which are cheaper than foreign analogues. But 90 percent of the substances that come from abroad. In Ukraine, there are now about 150 health-care companies. And we just have to put in place a system of public policy to compensate for their costs.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u111	Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u112	Oleg Zarubinsky, "Block of Lithuania," no noise, no hysteria, essentially a question of motive. Why did Block of Lithuania vote a hundred percent to set up a moratorium on medical supplies, on the farm, on prices in pharmacies? Because today the situation is completely unregulated and, more importantly, after the vote that has just taken place, everything will remain in place. So in one region, the price of papaverine is going to be one, and in another region is one and a half, or even two units, I'm not talking about any more remote regions. In terms of citizens of Ukraine, this is unfair because the manufacturer is the same and the prices are completely different in different regions. Moreover, even in pharmacies in a water town, prices will vary by 120 - 150 percent. So we voted in favour of this bill in favour of breaking the veto and doing the right thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u113	Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u114	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear voters, I am addressing you. You're being served by 18 candidates today, by the presidents. Please ask each of them how your political power voted for us to die as soon as possible, for there is no way to buy expensive drugs. I'm surprised at the position of those who have recently shouted at us to make state pharmacies, who have recently shouted that the "pig" flu is taking the whole population, give billions, billions and billions and so on and so forth. Today, only 14 votes are shaken, and those who understand what this is have given up for the bill. At the same time, the First Deputy Prime Minister called the figures that, within four days, Ukrainian pharmacies carried out a 10-year programme on their earnings. Yes, where is it? So this is another orange team affair, and this is the last one.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u115	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u116	What an orange team and in the last years of its existence shows the purpose of its existence, the purpose of its existence for which they came to power to be and live only rich, and the poor died hungry and cold and without drugs of death.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u117	Voting arguments have been completed. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on State Support and Features of the Functioning of the Children's Centres "Artek" and "Young Guard" with proposals by the President of Ukraine is under review. [[Registration number 4634]] Reported by the Deputy Head of the Secretary of the President of Ukraine, Popov Igor Volodymyrovich. From the procedure after consideration then.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u118	Honourable Chairman, Honourable People's Deputies of Ukraine! On October 22, 2009, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the Ukrainian Act "On Amendments to Article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on State Support and Features of the Functioning of the Children's Centres "Artek" and "Young Guards". I would like to remind you that the proposed changes are in particular established that the International Children's Centres “Artek” and “Young Guards” are state-owned enterprises and relate to the administration of the central executive authority to the subject of knowledge of which the organization and the recovery of children's rest belong. The implementation of the budget in recent years shows that in recent years chronic underfunding has been artificially fuelled by the crisis around the state-owned enterprise International Children's Centre Artek. In particular, the 2006 budget for the reconstruction of Artek was set up at Speczfond with 10 million dollars. Funded in year zero. The General Fund provided 17 million dollars as of December 01, 2007, with only one third of the $5.6 million funded. In the budgets of 2007, 2008, 2009 for the reconstruction of Artek was not even foreseen. The 2010 draft budget provided only 4 million dollars. In addition, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, when considering and adopting the budget each year, does not make much difference, despite inflation, in the cost of the recovery and rest of children in Artek and in the Youth Guard. Since 2006, this expenditure has fluctuated from about 33 million to 37 million dollars. And only through Presidential Decree No. 1102 of 27 November 2008, in which the government was tasked with providing for a year-long recovery of children at the centre, for which the draft State Budget Act for 2009 and subsequent years of attachment to the acquisition of at least 15,000 children's tickets was amended to the 2009 budget and added 60 million dollars, totalling 93 million dollars. In doing so, if you remember, the law provides for the allocation of this additional funding based on the reduction of expenditure approved in the 2009 budget for the State Administration. In particular, to support the activities of the Ukraine’s Presidential Secretariat, to carry out visits by the President of Ukraine abroad, to produce awards, and to commemorate signs. I would also like to remind you that on 20 February 2009, the Head of State returned with proposals the Law on State Support and Features of the Functioning of the Children's Centres “Artek” and “Young Guards”, which indicated that the land area of 2.8 hectares of the former Ayudag boarding house with a beach area located in the Children's Centre “Artek” on the right of agricultural knowledge. However, the Supreme Council of Ukraine did not then respond to the President’s proposals by overcoming the veto on March 3. Yet all of this is not the only reason why the President of Ukraine did not want to sign this law. In the rule of law, we must not ignore legislation, ignore the rules of the Constitution. Instead, the definition of the law of an authority that is governed by a particular state enterprise is not consistent with the Constitution or with the laws on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and on the administration of public property. According to article 116, paragraph 5, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine administers public property in accordance with the law. Article 1 of the Law on the Management of State Property Objects provides that the administration of public property objects is carried out by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and by its authorized authorities, other entities defined by this law. In accordance with article 3 of this Law, the authorities of state property are, in particular, state property that provides for the activities of the President of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, whose administration is carried out in accordance with the individual laws. Such a law has not yet been passed. The management of property that provides for the management of the State is not fully regulated. In accordance with the order of the Cabinet of Ministers of 6 April 2000, the number 165 DP International Children's Centre “Artek” is located in the Office of the State Administration, which provides for the activities of the President of Ukraine. Part two of article 19 of the Constitution defines the obligation of the authorities to act only on the basis of powers and in the manner provided for in the Constitution and in the laws of Ukraine. The adoption of the Ukrainian Act “On Amendments to Article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on State Support and Features of the Functioning of the Children’s Centres “Artek” and “Young Guards” do not take into account the requirements of the above mentioned laws. The authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is defined by article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine. These powers of the Supreme Council on property issues include the approval of lists of property rights that are not subject to privatization; the identification of legal principles for the removal of property rights. The Constitution of Ukraine gives the Supreme Council of Ukraine no authority to administer public property. Then, the adoption of the law governing the administration of property rights means that the Supreme Council of Ukraine exceeds its constitutional authority that a violation of the position of part two of article 6, part two of article 8, part two of article 19, article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine. In the light of the foregoing, the President of Ukraine proposes to reject the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on State Support and Features of the Functioning of the Children's Centres “Artek” and “Young Guards”. In addition, the proposal of the Head of State to reject the law coincides with the conclusion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. During the President's consideration of the proposals, the members of the profile committee stressed that the law did not regulate any rules on the administration of public property objects, such as the Artek MLC. Therefore, the solution to the problem lies solely in the adoption of a special Law on the Characteristics of State Property Management, which provides for both the activities of both the President of Ukraine and the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please support the proposal of the head of state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u119	Any questions for the reporter? Please record. Ribuk Sergey Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u120	Thank you. Dear Igor Volodymyrovich, I would simply like to draw the attention of the Secretary of the President, the President, the government, that if the power were solid, balanced, there would not be the first law that he would not be famous, “Artek” and “Young Guard”, the questions that you will work so hard and continue to argue with each other through Parliament, and make us reconcile different here, will soon be adopted by law on every single house of rest, enterprise, regardless of what it is. I mean, you've got Parliament involved, and the whole nation is going to decide as one millionth of the government's work and not even intervene with the President. So you tell them that we're sad and ashamed of you, that you're forcing Parliament to deal with these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u121	Dear Sergey Mikolayovich, I agree with you that the authorities of the State are working somewhat in a balanced way, there are questions both subjective and subjective, and subjective issues concerning disagreements and the Constitution, and the Constitution will indeed need to be amended, especially when the powers are distributed among the central authorities. I agree with you as a representative of the President in Parliament that, unfortunately, too often, we are forced to use the President's right to veto laws because the laws that are passed are too often in conflict with the Constitution, too often are lobbyist, and that is why laws are not valid for a long time, and those who are affected are waiting for this long letter between the President, the Parliament, the government, and then the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. In fact, we brought the state together, let's get her out of this together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u122	Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u123	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear Mr. Igor, first of all, I would like to welcome you with a high reward, a state reward. I think that this award is a merit order, I think. That's true. Now for the questions. Please tell me, in your statement, that the situation of ownership and the functions of managing those or other subjects from the State Department of Affairs, that is, an institution that is subordinated to the President directly, Kabmin, the Supreme Council, and so forth, is not settled. Or could you take the initiative that the President of Ukraine, as the subject of the legislative initiative, took this initiative, introduced a bill that clearly stated that neither the children’s centres, factories, hospitals, or stables were owned by these. [[I'm gonna do it for sure.]]
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u124	Dear Oleg Alexanderovich, I'll start with the stables. I want to tell you that, let's say the DiBrian Horse Factory has already been handed over to the Ministry of Agrarian Politics, and that's perfectly natural. As to the fact that this area should be organized I've also spoken in my speech, and I'm offering you a counterproposal, you're going to go to most of the coalition that we have somewhere in the world, to develop these projects, because unfortunately the President's projects are often rejected in the vast majority by the majority of the majority that exists in the Supreme Council, and so perhaps from the middle of the majority it will come up with a bright idea of how to sort out this particular segment of our economy, this is the property that serves both the President and the Supreme Council, and the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u125	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u126	Yuri Carmazin. Your Honor, I'm very sorry that you, a decent man, have to report the things you're about to report. And it's a pity because he's right and he's a colleague of Ribuk and he's a right-hand colleague of Zarubinsky's. They just didn't say that the stables, which refer to the sphere of interest of the DUSS, are closer to the distillery, closer to the sanatorium, closer to the hunting grounds, to the reserves. In Crimea, all the vitality had already been destroyed after being transferred to Dusa’s administration. We know what with "Artec," I reported here on "Glycinia". The good people, where you continue to write, “The Supreme Council exceeds its powers”. But rightfully, the President's Office has to set prices for children's travels. Why were they raised four times in relation to what was before? So I'm ashamed that there's such logic in here and what you're saying here. I think it's a bad constitution. The Constitution is good, only it needs to be done properly. I'm against that approach.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u127	Well, all I could understand was the vodka. And I can also answer that the Žitomir Gorse plant has also been transferred to the Ministry of Agrarian Politics. Thank you. Yavorovsky Volodymyr Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u128	Vladimir Yavorowski, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Your Honor, I am also pleased to say that you have earned such a high reward to the President in such a short period of time. Well, obviously it was for something. I want you to. I have two questions about two theses: one is the President's thesis, the other is yours. The President says that the Supreme Council has exceeded its authority and intervened in the administration of state property. Well, if you'll excuse me, we didn't interfere with property management -- we were doing our own direct legislative function: we amended the law. That's why the President's argument doesn't stick to a pile. Your argument about what it takes for both "Artec" and "Young Guards" – they are, therefore, helping to ensure the President's activities. Well, if you'll excuse me, I have the impression that the President's activities should have provided both Artek and the Young Guard. And then, in my ears today is Victor Andriyovich's voice, who promised that the Dusia would be canceled as such. Why does it exist to this day?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u129	Well, first of all, about my reward, it's probably the least relevant to the last six months of my life, and more than the last 15 years of my life. I think you know what I've been doing this time. And in the Order, it says all of these words. Since I only have a minute, I'm going to try to answer the second part of the question: about the State Administration, about the Artek. Lately, you've all seen the attempts of the raiding "Artec," you see that it's artificially bankrupted, you see that there are scandals that don't have anything to do with "Artec." I wouldn't want these decisions of the Supreme Council to help those raiders who may already be appreciating and appreciating themselves to the lascivious portion of the South Bank of Crimea, so that our children can still rest there and not build any cottages or palaces of those who are already in power or who want to come to power.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u130	Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u131	Dear Igor Vladimirović, well, what goes into the hands of the government, led by Timoshenko, is simply killing and bankrupting. The oilegas, practically, led to bankruptcy. While playing with the raiders, the Government took Luganskteplord into its own hands, although the company had worked well before, it had developed, and people were paid. As soon as it was taken into their own hands, five months on the Luansktépólce are no longer paid. I'm afraid that once the government clears the hands of Artek, they'll also bring Artek to the pen. But I have another question: well, isn't there little land with Yulia Timoshenko in Kiev, in central areas, or do they want to take in another piece of land in Artek? Please tell me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u132	Dear Mikhail Vasilovich, I do not have information about who wants to take over Artek and whether it is true, but just too many strange events are going on around Artek and, of course, we need to protect Artek. If you reform it, if you have to help it, let's really do it all together, but, having one goal in mind, that Artek works to make prices available so that in the budget we can anticipate recovery in the Artek of those who cannot pay the full price for these trips. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u133	Thank you, Igor Vladimirovich. Have a seat, please. Honorable colleagues, coreporter of the national deputy Kostenko Paul Ivanovich, will not be absent in this regard from the committee. Let's move on to decision-making. In his proposals, the President made one effective proposal that the Supreme Council of Ukraine should repeal the law. The proposal by the President of Ukraine to repeal the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Article 1 of the Act on State Support and Features of the Functioning of the Children's Centres “Artek” and “Young Guards” is a vote. [[Registration number 4634]] [[11:57:07]] For the 17th. The proposal of the President of Ukraine is not supported. The proposal of the President of Ukraine's veto committee to vote on the amendment of article 1 of the Ukrainian Act on State Support and the Functioning of the Children's Centres "Artek" and "Young Guard" is put to the vote. [[Registration number 4634]] I'd like to make a statement. [[11:57:42]] For-188. The decision is not taken. By factions, please: Region Party - 0, Timoshenko Yulia Block - 125, Our Ukraine-People's Self-Defense - 14, Communists - 27, Litvina Block - 19, non-fractional - 3. The law is rejected. Please proceed with the procedure for the further work of our national MP, Sas.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u134	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich! Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! We have more than 50 draft laws in order today, we've considered three. In order to somehow carry out the agenda, I ask that the proposal be put to the vote in accordance with article 31 of the Rules, those laws that can be considered in a simplified procedure, so that we can consider them in a simplified procedure. Please put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u135	The proposal of the Sasa People’s Deputy to review the reduced procedure for draft laws in the first reading, as well as the draft regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, is subject to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:59:08]] For-166 Decision taken. Thus, draft laws in the first reading and draft decrees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be reviewed by a reduced procedure. Please, from the Martinjuk Adam Ivanovich procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u136	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, I have great doubts as to the correctness of our last decision, not ours, but the 166 that voted. Colleagues have the right to ask questions, a proposal to review short-circuit bills when they come up with a bill. And each individual bill should follow a reduced or complete procedure. Because the Rules provide for which bills can be considered under a reduced procedure that is not allowed to be examined at all. That's why I'm asking for a separate vote on every bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u137	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. We actually have a procedure for examining the President's observations, a second reading. So there are separate procedures, this is not being distributed. That is why I have stressed, in fact, those issues that may be dealt with in accordance with the Rules. Dear colleagues, we have a recess of up to 12 hours 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u138	Dear colleagues, we continue our morning plenary session. Please take your seats. We are now scheduled for meetings on a subject that needs to be included in the agenda before the decision is taken, and it is envisaged to be considered immediately after inclusion in the agenda. The government has defined this issue as an urgent matter. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2009. [[on the financing of justice]] [[Registration number 5238]] Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. A proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2009 is put to the vote. [[on the financing of justice]] [[Registration number 5238]] Please be sure. [[12:31:23]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please raise your hand, who said you couldn't make it? Is there? Please. I am voting on the proposal to return to the issue of the inclusion in the agenda of draft law 5238. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:32:07]] For 248 Questions in the agenda are included. Oh, I'm sorry, we're back to making decisions about getting into the agenda. I put forward a proposal for the inclusion in the agenda and follow-up of the draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for 2009. [[on the financing of justice]] I'd like to make a statement. [[12:32:43]] For 274 Decision taken. I invite you to report to the Deputy Finance Minister, Matthew Vladimir Makarovich, please. The Supreme Council has decided on a reduced procedure -- you have two minutes, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u139	Honourable Alexandre Volodymyrovich, distinguished National Deputies, the Cabinet of Ministers asks you to consider and adopt the draft Ukrainian Law on Change to Ukraine’s 2009 State Budget, which envisions an increase in expenditure in 2009 for the State Administration by $124.3 million. Including 95.5 million dollars to ensure that justice is properly implemented in the current year, and 28.8 million dollars to pay off the debt that was set up in 2008. 95.5 million dollars will be allocated to the purchase of paper, forms, mail, communications, utility fees, and disks to determine the trial. Given the marked, minor changes and transparency of this bill, the government is asking you to enact this law today as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u140	Thank you. Please sit down, Vladimir Makarovich. The report is by Mikola Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u141	Dear Chairman! Dear national deputies, invited! The Committee on Budget Issues at its meeting on 18 November 2009 considered the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Budget 2009 submitted for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. [[on financing and justice]] An increase of $124.3 million in domestic borrowing expenditure for the Government’s Administration is due to the need to resolve urgent and without undue questions about the functioning of the courts of general jurisdiction. Of the amount indicated, 95.5 million dollars are intended to provide adequate justice conditions for the current year and 28.8 million dollars for the 2008 accounts payable from the current maintenance of the courts and for the implementation of capital repairs, reconstruction, construction of courts, and the provision of accommodation for the courts. Finally, I would like to highlight the following for the transcript. The Committee on Budget Affairs has adopted a decision to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of a bill on registration number 5238 as a whole, taking into account the following: First. Amend article 11 of the State Budget Act of Ukraine for 2009 to increase the government debt threshold by 124 million 282.6 thousand dollars in connection with the increase in government borrowing in the bill. The other one. In order to ensure a balance between the state budget summary and the alignment of the bill with the current version of the State Budget Act 2009 taking into account the amendments to the State Budget Act 2009 of 21 August, of 23 October, and of 6 November, and not. [[No. 1608]] [[No. 1688]] [[No. 1715]]
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u142	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u143	President of Ukraine's veto for registration number 4707. The Committee on Budget Issues, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council, shall make necessary editorial and technical clarifications to the text of the laws and Appendices, in particular, in the revision of the summary figures of the State budget and set out in Article 1, the presentation of Article 1 in a revised edition before the law is submitted to the Head of the Supreme Council. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u144	Thank you, Milo Ivanovich. Please sit down. Let's write two in a row, two in a row. Karpuk Vladimir Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u145	Vladimir Karpuk, “For Ukraine!” MP, taking into account the situation that has arisen in the provision of material courts of general jurisdiction, is voting in favour of the parliamentary group “For Ukraine!” in favour of giving 124 million dollars to the court and asking for the support of this bill. Thank you. And to vote in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u146	Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u147	Dear Alexander Vladimirović, distinguished colleagues! But indeed, we, the country, have come to the brink of disaster. On the one hand, people have been brought to poverty, the Government has not paid pensions, wages, people on the verge of survival. On the other hand, almost like the President said, a broken army. And it's not funded here. But if we also try to force the government to be buried, then all will be gone. Therefore, contrary to the actions of the Government, which virtually breaks down the State machinery of the Party of the Regions, the Party of the Regions proposes to decide and support the financial courts and to protect against government arbitrariness, against financial negligence, the third judicial branch of power, yes. I hope that the BUT faction will also vote on our Ukraine, or at a moratorium on prices, the medicines to limit the price of words have been said yes and not actually supported. And people will now face price vachanals when they're paid for a lousy salary, because the government doesn't want to raise their wages, they don't want to raise their pension, and on the other hand, they're allowing prices to go to heaven for drugs. I therefore hope that the initiative of the Party of the Regions, the continuation of the Party of the Regions to protect the judiciary will find an appropriate response both in the BUT factions and in the faction “Our Ukraine” and they will vote in favour of the law. And we will support and protect, materially support the third independent branch of power, the judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u148	The discussion is over. I would like to vote on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft Act “On Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2009”. [[Registration number 5238]] I'd like to make a statement. [[12:40:12]] For 302 Decision taken. Honorary colleagues, head of the committee, reported on the committee’s decision, said that the committee was proposing changes to the law. In particular, to article 11. It is proposed to increase the government’s debt to 124 million 282.6 thousand dollars. And in this connection, the increase in government borrowings in this bill. In addition, it is proposed to assign the task of introducing to the law to the draft law a change and clarification of the summary of the State budget. They're not exactly editorial and they're not. technical stuff. It's a committee they can't do without management. So please log in just a minute from the final decision procedure. Sebravsky Paul Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u149	Dear colleagues, in fact, there are certain subtleties that Alexander Volodymyrovich spoke of. But, my friends, when are we going to be able to do this? In fact, there is no dispute in the hall regarding the fact that funding is to take place throughout the judicial branch of government. And because of that, I think we can, and with the additions that the committee head, Mikola Ivanovich, has been talking about, vote in general, because there is no place to go anymore, because you've heard of an administrative court that didn't have any money for correspondence, and in other courts the same situation. I think with those remarks and the corrections and the additions that Mikola Ivanovich spoke about, we can vote on this bill as a whole. He has no objection to any factions in Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u150	Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u151	Dear Alexander Vladimirović, distinguished colleagues, I think money should be counted. From the fact that we're making a decision here in the Lazarus Hall, it's not that the government pocket is empty, it's also leaky. First we have to buy the thread to sew up the government pocket and then put the money there. That's why there are serious things. That's why there's a profile committee. We're used to it: 20 million there, 30 there. They're really going around, and people don't get that kind of money. Therefore, there are serious comments, there is a procedure, there is a Rules - for second reading, to work out, and in the light of the Committee's discussion, let the Committee decide that it will then not cause any disturbances, imbalances or distortions. I propose that it be finalized on second reading, that the process be expedited and adopted in the final version after the second reading in the room.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u152	I'm sorry, dear colleagues. Mikola Ivanovich, a question to you. You've made one very precise proposal, the second one gives you the task of checking the laws that are passed in order to pass the numbers. Is it enough time, at least, to say one day, for example, for you to propose the final text on paper tomorrow, for which you can vote? Because it's actually government finances and it's to vote with a mandate that you count and what happens then it's to write and send. You can't do that. Please, how much time do you need to do the final text of the law?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u153	First. If there's an appearance on the committee, we can today from 2 to 4 at 15, let's say hold a committee meeting and prepare a table accordingly. But they will have to be printed, of course. Therefore, for tomorrow, of course, it is possible to prepare, but provided that the members of the committee come to the meeting and the quorum will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u154	Mikola Ivanovich, so please do this work quickly. As soon as we're ready, we'll ask the question tomorrow, and I hope the hall will support it, and then we'll look at it right away. Please be prepared. The draft Ordinance on Amendments to the Supreme Council of Ukraine "On the Establishment of Social Fellowships of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for Students of Higher Education Institutions of Orphans and Children of Low-Supplied Families" is announced for consideration. Vitali Semenovich is the head of the Committee on Science and Education. Please, Davymuk People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u155	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues, distinguished ladies and gentlemen! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Science and Education, at its meeting on 22 January this year, reviewed the draft Ordinance on Amendments to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Ordinance on the Establishment of Social Fellowships of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for Students of Higher Education Institutions, Children of Orphans and Children of Low-Supplied Families, introduced by the National Deputy of Ukraine Samojlik. The draft regulation provides for changes to the order of appointment and payment of social scholarships to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for students from higher education institutions of orphans and children from low-income families. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Science and Education decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft decision on the basis and as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u156	Have a seat, please. Let's write 2 in, 2 in the opposite. Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u157	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. If you'll excuse me, I'll be brief because it's clear. I think these changes are relevant. It seems to me that there is actually no subject here, and I just took the floor to ask my colleagues to vote in favour of this legislative initiative. In the end, we all understand that the Supreme Council is a serious institution, it has to be a serious institution. There are a lot of people among orphans, among those who are underprivileged, who are not worse educated than they are better educated, and perhaps if the state, the number of such important institutions of state power as the Parliament of Ukraine, gives them the opportunity to think even more about learning, to think even more about academic, student work, they will give less attention to working at night, let's say, in some enterprises to have something to eat. I think that the function of the state -- and the Supreme Council here can play a positive role -- in order to say that now it's fashionable to have this kind of social elevator from gifted children who are simply deprived of the ability to learn solely because of their lack of security. If we help 5-10-15 of these people, I think it'll be a noble thing. Please support this.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u158	Kravchuk Vasil Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u159	As a representative of the Regulatory Committee that deals with the issue of the corrosive, I want my colleagues to know that we haven't paid our scholarships this year, because we don't have enough money -- deficit. I support this bill, and I will vote in favour of it, but we have to look at where we're going to take the money, and we have to take these issues into account when we consider and approve the fund for 2010. And if we ask questions about the scholarships of the Supreme Council to children, will these 15 children solve the problem among all those in Ukraine? And I will vote for the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u160	Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u161	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies! What is proposed is to change the drafting of an active decision whereby the Social Fellowship of the Supreme Council of Ukraine was assigned to students from the number of orphans and children from low-income families, and further key words: “depending on the form of property of higher education institutions”. What is being suggested now? And now it's proposed to assign social scholarships to students who are learning exclusively at the expense of the State Budget in State and municipal higher education institutions I – IV levels of accreditation. In our view, this approach will put students in unequal conditions who are trained in private-owned higher education institutions and in public and municipal education institutions on a contractual basis. There are children who learn the same thing, the father may have set up an apartment, set up a house to set up a son in a paid institution. He doesn't have any money either. And we make this child black, we don't pay this child, and we don't pay this child, and we're going to give to the idler who maybe the millionaire father did it in the state college. So you don't have to make white people. Children are all the same regardless of what educational institution they are studying. And we need to get a good look at the kids, and we're back here on a purely ideological basis. We are not looking at a child, but we are looking at a list of educational institutions. It's fundamentally wrong, yes. Children should not be divided either by nationality or by what educational institution they are studying. Therefore, a draft regulation should be adopted on first reading and then this differentiation should be eliminated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u162	The discussion is over. Dear colleagues, we have come up with a proposal to approve the decision as a basis and then to submit it. I put to the vote a draft regulation amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulation on the establishment of a social scholarship for the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Registration number 3103]] I'd like to make a statement. [[12:51:53]] For 301 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, in view of the need for several points to be worked out here, there is a proposal for the committee to work on them, and I ask the National Deputies to submit their proposals for clarification of this draft decision to the Professional Committee. The draft Amendment Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine "On the Establishment of Name Scholarships of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for Higher Education Students" is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 4624]] Please, Stepan Antonovich Davymuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u163	Honourable Alexander Volodymyrovich, honourable colleagues, is invited to consider the draft Order for Amendments to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Ordinance on the Establishment of Name Scholarships of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for Higher Education Students. The Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with paragraph 1 of Part One and Part Two of Article 109 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a draft regulation amending the Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the establishment of named scholarships of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to students of higher education institutions (to increase the size of the named scholarships of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, submitted by the national deputies of Ukraine, Polohal, Dony, Davimuk, Chernobyl, Zarubinski, Kolesnik, Zubc, Kuril and accepted as a basis and as a whole). The essence of the changes is to bring the size of the corresponding scholarships to the appropriate time. They're going to increase their size for first-to-second students -- 900 bucks, and second-to-fourth-level accreditation -- 1200 bucks. These sizes correspond to the changes that have taken place with respect to the Ukrainian President's scholarship and the Ukrainian Cabinet's scholarships. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u164	Thank you, Stepan Anatolyovich. Have a seat, please. Let's write two-for-two-again. Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u165	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Oleg Zarubinsky, Block of Lithuania. Dear colleagues, I'm literally going to use 20 seconds to talk about the previous one. They are very interconnected, and I will explain why. You know, the argument has the logic of my esteemed colleague Mikhail Vasilovich, but, you know, you can't talk about orphans in those schools where they or their guardians pay for their education. They're already paying for the training. The whole point of public institutions is that there are these orphans and low-income children who have the opportunity to learn for free, that is, not to give up what they call money. That's the difference, and that's the right difference. So when we prepare for the second reading, I think we need to take that into account. As far as this bill is concerned, I know what would be the position, obviously, or the nuances of the position of representatives and the regulatory committee, as we have already heard, perhaps a budget committee that lacks money. In fact, they're not enough, but I think we need to take a serious look at the 2010 budget. I've told you that there's a president there, his. The implementation of its powers is projected to be 1 billion 600 million dollars, including what I told Mr. Popov about today, stables, sanatoriums, vodka plants - God damn it! I think that if it's about these pathetic, really, dimensions that the Supreme Council can give to children in order to make it easier for them to develop, to make a career, to climb up in the direction of this social elevator, then this money could be projected in the project. So I support this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u166	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u167	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Ladies and gentlemen, I recently received a prize -- a thousand dollars from the Academy of Law. The question is not in price, not in thousands of dollars, the question is that it's some sort of assessment of your work. I'd like to support our colleague, Zarubinsky, and our colleague Chechtov, because Chechtov stressed the discrimination that happens to children who learn in the form of property, and we don't see with you that the discrimination of teachers takes place, which is taught in a private property facility. You see how they retire. They go on different terms. And we tolerate it with you regardless of the faction. But we have to think that the state is creating fewer and fewer conditions for budget funding. That means more conditions for these, the development of these private institutions. But we don't include that internship, we include that internship as a pedagogical one, and we don't want to correct that mistake. I'm going to the appropriate committee. You're preparing serious things, but please prepare even more serious things so that we don't discriminate against teachers. Because they're ashamed to look into their eyes, they're absolutely right when they retire, when they don't count on their pedagogical backgrounds that they're black for something else. And another thing that I wanted to draw your attention to. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a presidential academic scholarship of 800 or 1,000 dollars. We have the Cabinet of Ministers, that's 700 and 850 dollars. I deliberately call sums because they're different, you see, yes. There was a scholarship to the Supreme Council of 532 bracelets for the first and second accreditations and accordingly 638 for the third. Now we want to put our 1200, because we approve. And we're going to show that we're above the President, above the Cabinet and so on. I call you to your senses. Let's make it the same, first of all.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u168	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u169	And no longer begetting children a confrontation between what someone is above, someone meaningful. And this is the contrast between the branches of power that exist in society, so that they don't start from this small age. I propose that we unify this amount of scholarship so that they're the same, they all come from the state budget, they're all defined by certain merit that we don't define with you, and they're given to us. Let's get them to the exact same size. I ask you to vote in the first reading and on the second level these points and those that said our colleagues Zarubinsky and Chechetov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u170	The discussion is over. I am voting on the basis of the draft Decree amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the establishment of named scholarships of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to students of higher education institutions. [[Registration number 4624]] I'd like to make a statement. [[13:00:02]] For 319 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the committee offered to accept the whole. But the proposals are made because the increases proposed here are differentiated depending on the level of accreditation of the higher education institution. There is a denial of the National Deputies, so please gather your proposals and prepare for the approval of the entire draft decision. It is announced for consideration for inclusion in the agenda and decision-making of the draft Order amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the award of the 2008 Supreme Council Award to the most talented young scientists in the field of fundamental and applied research and technological development. I'm betting on voting the proposal to put it into the agenda and consider it now. [[Registration number 5114]] I'd like to make a statement. [[13:01:10]] For 287 Decision taken. Please report to Stepan Antonovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u171	On 15 January 2008, the President-in-Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the 2008 Supreme Council Decision on the award of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Award to the most talented young scientists in the field of fundamental and applied research and technological development, as determined by 20 prizes to young scientists, doctors of science and candidates for doctoral dissertation. During the preparation of the diplomas, it was found that there was a technical error in the name of one of the applicants, namely, the words “Doggie Alli Ivanovni” should be replaced by the words “Kushkini Alli Ivanovni”, that is, in the name of the letter “h” should be replaced by the letter “h”. The matter was discussed in the committee, and the committee invites the Supreme Council to take the decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u172	Thank you, Stepan Antonovich. We have an emergency procedure. There are no questions, but I'd like you to go into the microphone right now and say that the specific names that are proposed in the draft decrees that you made, that these are the names that were considered by the committee that decided on these names. If you don't, please have another choice. Tell me your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u173	It's just a terrible mistake.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u174	Microphone on the stand, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u175	We need Kushikini instead of Kuchikini Alli Ivanovni, Kushikini Alli Ivanovni. That is, in the name of the error: instead of "h" you need "sh".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u176	Stepan Anatolyevich, would you please clarify the committee's decision regarding specific names?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u177	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u178	Now, tell me, please, it's in the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u179	In the resolution we adopted was a list of all the names, all the surnames, and the names of the work. And so it turns out that there was a mistake in one name.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u180	I understand the situation. Please, thank you, Stepan Anatolyovich. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, vote. Oh, is there a need to discuss, if you'll excuse me? There's no room!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u181	No, no, no, no, no. It is put to the vote for adoption on the basis and as a whole the draft Decree amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the award of the 2008 Supreme Council Prizes to the most talented young scientists in the field of fundamental and translation research and technological development. [[Registration number 5114]] I'd like to make a statement. [[13:04:37]] For 337 Decision taken. A draft decree marking the 300th anniversary of the founding of Lysicánsk Lugansk Region is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 4539]] Please, Serbin Yuri Sergiyovich. I'm sorry, dear colleagues, I made a mistake. Yuri Sergiyovich, I apologize to you. We have to report to the initiator, the author of the draft decision, Boyko Yuri Anatoliyovich, first. Excuse me, please. Yuri Anatolyevich, one second, please. Dear colleagues, we have determined the procedure for the initiative of the national deputy, Sasa Supreme Council, to decide on the work of the reduced procedure. Report, report, no questions asked, discussion: two in a row, two in a row. All of it. Please report, Yuri Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u182	Dear National Deputies, in September 2010, are 300 years old from the birth of the city of Lysicánsk Lugansk. The city for Ukraine signs, first of all, coal came from this place, the first chemistry, the Donzoda factory, the largest oil refinery in the Soviet Union, was built there. And today there's a city worker, sign people working there. The city gives a very large number of jobs and industrial production, and I'm asking you to support it. The committee’s consideration took place. There were some remarks. We, in the early days, say that we agree with these comments. A request to support the adoption of this decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u183	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Please, Yuri Sergiyovich Serbin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u184	Dear colleagues, the draft decision was considered on the committee and the committee decided to support it, but with one point of view. Here's a specific figure that needs to be allocated 10 million dollars in the state budget to mark the 300th anniversary of the city of Lysicánska. The committee in general will support this decision, especially as it is supported by the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, supports, here we have a letter. There is still support for the Rules Committee. But I suggest, if we accept it, that we exclude the words “10 million dollars”, i.e., that we are now making changes to the budget and burdening the committee with 10 million dollars against it. In general, he supports and asks for it. I've got everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u185	Thank you, Yuri Sergiyovich. Have a seat, please. Two in, two in, against. Efraemov Alexander Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u186	Dear colleagues! I would like to support this draft order for the allocation of Lisicansk, including the allocation of***. When Yuri Anatolevich reported, he modestly spoke of the city of Lisicánsk. But let's not forget that this city, in its time of 48 years, has been producing 82 percent of the coal that was mined in Donbass for 48 years. That the city had indeed suffered significant losses in connection with the closure of mines, when inadvertently in 96 or 95, Lazarenko had decided by voluntary means to close 10 mines in the Lugansk region. And I think that the 10 million that are being proposed in this decision today are the misery, the moral misery, especially for those who live and work all their lives on this earth, and are giving a lot of value to our State, our Ukraine. I would ask colleagues, regardless of political affiliation, to support and take this decision in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u187	Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u188	Dear colleagues! It feels like we're going back to the same place again. Because if it were another city, it would probably be less than 10 million. I'm paying attention, we're not bringing anything anywhere. The 300th anniversary of Lysican will be in September 2010. There is no budget for 2010. We simply recommend that the Cabinet of Ministers, in preparing the State Budget Act for 2010, take into account the proposal to allocate to the development of this city's infrastructure, which has enormous merit in the history of our Ukrainian state, at least 10 million dollars. So I can't really support the profile committee proposal here. Although I don’t know why the profile committee is this one, for example, not the Yavorowski Committee, which is always very important and memorable. But whoever the committee is, I would like to stress once again, let's support this whole decision with an election, more specifically, we're not still singled out, we're just recommending that the Cabinet of Ministers count for 2010 to mark this fairly serious date of 10 million. And that's why I would ask, dear colleagues, to come out of this very calculation. Again and again, we're not changing anything, we're just making recommendations to the Cabinet of Ministers. And I hope that the citizens of Lysicánsk will now hear us, listen and watch and respond to what will be the result of the vote. I propose to support this decision as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u189	Yavorovsky Volodymyr Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u190	“. above Dinz, where the smoke of the plant rises.” [[Vladimir Sosmir]] The amazing city, and, I think there's no man here who might be against not marking the historic date of this city. But I really want us, colleagues, to be consistent. On the Conciliation Council, and from this rostrum, I climbed up and said tens of times: “People good, let’s not go separately.” Tomorrow I'm going to introduce my little Teklovka, which I think is 300 years old, to 47 people alive. And that's my right, I can do that. Because I don't blame Boyko, but we agreed, all the suggestions we have, then we bring them to the hall. [[I, as chairman of the committee, addressed every deputy, to every faction and asked, please for the following year, submit all your proposals, we will form them, we will define the personnel, we will define the cities, we will define the individual dates, all the political forces represented in the committee]] It's much easier to vote, there might be dates that are unacceptable, let's say, for one, for the other, but in the package comes this, so necessary today to Ukraine, consensus where the Soviet dates will be celebrated and given, let's say, historical. In one package, we always vote for it. It's actually ready for the committee, and we'll probably take it out next week. Because I don't think we need to look at it today, because Lysicánsk is on this list, and we are voting for it. [[I'm talking to Boyko.]] And in general, to determine the amounts on the Supreme Council, we'll argue on this, because everyone who makes the proposal will demand, "Give us gas, give us that." That's the problem with the Cabinet of Ministers. We take a single decision, the Cabinet of Ministers puts its power financially, and C and all the dates we celebrate. This is something that can bring a little bit of order into our Ukrainian society. That's why I asked Alexander Volodymyrovich to give me his word. There's Lysichansky in this list. And next week in one package, we'll vote in a calm, normal way. I think it's a very smart way out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u191	Karpuk Vladimir Georgievovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u192	Dear Volodymyr Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies! I also want to support Vladimir Alexandrovich's proposal that there should be some unified approach, because when there's a single city, it causes a whole other emotion in other cities. I'm referring to the honourable Adam Ivanovich, and I've been drafting bills for the 925th anniversary of Lucca and the 700th anniversary of Covell in 2010. And of course, there are ancient historical places. In particular, the first assembly of European rulers took place in Lutsk. It's the same 700-year-old Covella. So it will cause tension in certain cities. Either we're doing the only unified approach, or we're going to turn into unnecessary debates again when we consider such issues. So I ask you to support the proposal for the introduction of the city of Lysichansk, I support this proposal, into the only list that will be proposed to the Supreme Council, but also. Volodymyr Alexanderovich, I ask you to speed up this work so that we know, and these questions are not aroused in this room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u193	Thank you. The discussion is over. Yeah, faction one that didn't sign up. Please, Oleg Alexanderovich Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u194	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Three of these little ones, because I only have one minute. We owe it to the residents, and first of all, I mean the inhabitants of cities like Lysichansk and others. When someone is not there, you enter the city, and they immediately feel the environmental conditions that these people live in. You know, some compensation at least in terms of infrastructure, at least there should be some help for these cities, because people are just burying their health. Including, by the way, for other regions, because they're releasing the product that's being sold that's giving revenue to the government budget that's being distributed to all regions. It seems to me that it would be moral and just to help these people. And the second thesis. Any decision is declarative if it does not provide for some funding. You can argue how much it should be, but if there's no material base, it's just a greeting and nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u195	Discussion over. I'm voting on the basis of a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to mark the 300th anniversary of the establishment of the city of Lysichansk Luhansk district. [[Registration number 4539]] I'd like to make a statement. [[13:16:44]] For 219 The decision is not taken. Please, the offer of Javorovský Volodymyr Aleksandrovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u196	Ladies and gentlemen! I address, first of all, to the foxes who may hear us, and to our colleagues in the Party of Regions, and to the authors of the decree. There is no tragedy. I say again, next week, the Committee on Culture and Spirituality. We're ready for the approved date list, we're just taking it out for approval. There's the city of Lysichansk, marking its date. Because of that, once again, there is no problem, this decision will pass, I have no doubt. A week later, we will vote on a general list of dates for the city of Lysicánsk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u197	Please, Efraemov Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u198	When we don't want to do something, let's run it in a big circle, and we'll do it 10 more times. all the list that we are invited to vote on. Let's do one particular thing for one city worker. Those who live and work there need to bow to their feet because most of us get paid here because they're on the ground. That's why I have a proposal, Alexander Vladimirovich, let's go back to the vote because not all of us have been able to push the buttons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u199	Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u200	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues! The butter of mush will not spoil — it is a good, wise Ukrainian proverb. The Yavorowski Committee is preparing a project to mark the memorable and notable dates for 2010 — for health, let it prepare. She'll be looking into the session room, I hope she'll back him up. Nothing remarkable about what we're devoting, really, a well-deserved city in the history of our country, is. And from the fact that we're going to take this decision now, and then it's going to be included in another list, the city of Lysichansk and its laborers will not only lose, but they'll win. So I suggest we go back to voting. And I strongly urge you to support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u201	Thank you. I am voting on the motion to return to the decision on draft regulation 4539. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:19:25]] For 217 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 158, “Club of Timoshenko” – 0, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” – 10, Communists – 27, “Club of Lithuania” – 19, “Club of Lithuania” – 3. The draft Law amending the Law on Scientific and Technological Activities of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 2166]] Reports Matvienko Anatoly Sergiyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u202	Matvienko, Ukrainian Republican Party “Sobor”, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. Dear colleagues, Fredericko Jolio Curie, a French scientist, say: “Science is essential to the people. The country that does not develop it is irreversibly transformed into a colony.” I think that the dynamic that we see in Ukraine today is that obviously we don't support science properly, and we should think about it seriously. The bill that I'm proposing concerns this particular area. The bill deals with areas of support for people who have been trained in Ph.D. in science. The point is that modern practice appears to be quite inconvenient, including postgraduate studies in postgraduate studies, and a doctoral degree in Ph.D. is not included. Obviously, such a dynamic could be observed with enough anxiety. If we were protected by a doctoral thesis in 2007 by 761 people, it's already about 700 people in the 8th year and in the first half of 2009, it's only 344 people. I think it's a small one, but it's important enough for the Supreme Council to make a gesture if we adopt this law and take the Ph.D. into the scientific internship, which makes it possible then, when people retire, to receive adequately from people, taking into account this scientific internship. What I'm saying is that we have a total of 79,000 scientists, 862 people, and only 13,000 976 people who have defended doctoral dissertation, is 17.5 percent. If we say what deserves attention, whether it's big money, we figure it's about 4 million to get this law in order. So do the recalculation, and every year after we do the recalculation, it's going to be somewhere within one.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u203	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u204	But it's clear that I can't advocate for the Supreme Council to violate the 27th article of the Budget Code. So, Alexander Volodymyrovich, I propose this law to accept and accept the logic that it will enter into force on January 1, 2011. And then we're going to exhaust the observation of our respective analytical administration and we can adopt this law both in the first reading and in general, because there's no problem here. I thank you for supporting his inclusion and would like to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u205	Thank you. Have a seat, please. == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man Davemuka Stepan Antonovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u206	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, a distinguished colleague, to the words of Anatoly Sergiyovich, I want to make some points. In fact, the law on science and science and technology has solved this issue, but it's a very fine colossion. Here's to solving this. Article 21-1: “Scientific staff”, which lists scientific staff, including a doctorate. And in article 22-3, “Science of scientific work”, it states: “Sciences of scientific work are included in the positions of scientific workers defined in article 22-1 of this law.” I mean, there's a Ph.D. on that list. But what's the colossal? The conflict is that article 22-3 continues to decrypt like that, and here is actually a problem. It is shown that the time of work there is indicated for scientific and pedagogical workers and the last point is the time of post-graduate or adjunctural education in the day-to-day form of education for postgraduate graduates. [[adjunctories]] And that's what some organs actually take as a ban. Yeah, and the Pension Fund and so on. Therefore, Anatoly Sergiyovich’s proposal is to add more to this last paragraph of article 22-3 than to postgraduate, adjunctura, and a doctoral degree. And we support that position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u207	Please sign up for the discussion. Thank you, Stepan Antonovich. Pavlovsky Andry Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u208	Andrew Pavlovsky. I think we should generally support this bill, especially as the author proposes since 1 January 2011. Doctors, they have to take an internship. And please pass the time remaining on to Oleg Grigorovich. Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u209	Unfortunately, this is not provided for by the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u210	Well, there's still a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u211	Please, Ribuk Sergey Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u212	Thank you. Rybuk, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear colleagues, the Supreme Council has now passed three decrees before this bill concerning the improvement of living conditions and social status and the teaching of our students. And of course, it's perfectly logical and consistent when the draft regulation is now being considered, the law, more faithfully, about scientific and technical activity. And I, first of all, call on all the national MPs to support this bill, because, in fact, as the rapporteurs said, we have the average age of a doctor of science too low, science is getting old, if you say so clearly. Ukraine is on a historic turn of reforms, growth, and we need a state, that is, not just fresh scientific thinking, but a real scientific idea that would really be. The engine of scientific and technological progress and development of our nation. So what's left to look at is why it wasn't previously provided for in this law to include Ph.D., because it's completely understandable because it's a Ph.D., it's a heterosis phenomenon for a young scientist or a young scientist who's always given the scientific opinion to society, and society's progressing in science and technology. So I'm proposing, without question, that's the right thing to do, to accept this bill as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u213	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u214	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, in sharing the idea and substance of the bill, I would like to stop at the fact that the bill, at least as it was written in the draft, has been effective since the day it was published. What is said needs to be written, Anatoly Sergiyovich. So the correct proposal you've made right now that you can input it in a year is absolutely right. Since 2011, it has been operational. I would just like to ask that we get our calculations, because under the Government Act, the government has to provide expertise and clear calculations for what it costs. One. The other one. Anatoly Sergiyovich, I am definitely “for” accepting and amending this article to article 22-3 “Science of Science”. But if we are making changes to this article, I would ask that we make adjustments to this article in the second reading. Do you simply want to accept it in the first reading and all that? So that we can make changes to the second reading, so that we can predict there, and as far as scientific work is concerned, there is a time at the positions of academics not only in the educational institutions of state ownership, but also in those where they are actually doing some kind of development and working on it. Otherwise we violate the Constitution and discriminate, there is no equality of all citizens before the law. So there's a brutal violation of the Constitution. By the way, I want to say from this high rostrum that every day in the Constitutional Court today, the Constitution is being raped, closed sessions are being held, they are not being reported to anyone at all, people are good! And we say that we have a decision of the Constitutional Court and then we do it every day.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u215	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u216	Dear friends, I would therefore like to support the Matviennek Bill, which is required to bring in 22-3 internships and balance all the scientific institutions and all the scientists who work. And the third. I'd like to ask you, Mr. Chairman, to give an order to find out what's going on in the Constitutional Court. They adopted the Rules, becoming actually the Supreme Council second. They make, do not live by, and force someone to live by, although this is not the norm. I'm drawing your attention to it is impossible to tolerate, or we stop funding such an organ, it went beyond the Constitution, although it's called the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u217	Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u218	Oleg Zarubinsky's Block of Lithuania. Ladies and gentlemen, in this case, I would like to agree with my colleague Rybouk, who said that it's strange, as we didn't notice before, that postgraduate is a science and teaching activity, and a doctorate, when one has to write a higher degree of dissertation, and be a serious researcher, let's say, a deep researcher, is this, it's not a science and teaching activity. This once again confirms that in the session room, obviously we need to work carefully, scrupulously and professionally, legislatively. I mean, political statements are political statements, but they prevent them from finding such cracks, cracks in legislation. And it's very good that the author of the legislative initiative found it, because it's just unfair to the people who write doctoral dissertations. And another observation. Why "Block of Lithuania," first, entirely, voted in favour of including in the agenda this issue for consideration, and will vote in favour of this bill. Because there are some of the negatives of the Bologna process, I emphasize the imposed model because there are 14 varieties in the Bologna system. And we have illiterate people who don't know foreign languages, who read one or two articles, and they're trying to give us the Bologna system, some sort of skeleton, let's say. Although there are different kinds, each country adapts in its own way, coming out of national traditions. So one of the negatives is that it eliminates the difference between a student of science and a doctor of science, there's only a doctor of science in one field or another. And we know that the level of doctoral dissertation for those people, of course, who wrote the dissertation themselves, and not for whom it was done, is always much higher than the candidate's dissertation and the person who works as a doctor of science, is a professor.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u219	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u220	It is a gold fund of Ukrainian native science. So I think I need to encourage those people who want to write doctoral dissertations themselves, with their hands and with their head. Thank you. It's just them.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u221	Bylorus Oleg Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u222	Dear Chairman and colleague, this law cannot be passed in general, for it contains absurdity, even in the title, read. When it comes to including Ph.D.'s in science. There's no teaching, there's not going to be, there's not going to be, there's not going to be, there's going to be, there's going to be a higher level of scientific work that's meant for the preparation of doctoral dissertation and two monographs?? The same is true of postgraduate. Moreover, Ukrainian legislation today includes even higher education in professional activities. Thus, this teaching has led to the fact that this work is not included in the course of scientific work. Besides, the offer to.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u223	Oleg Grigorovitch, please finish your offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u224	Two more words. So I propose a second reread to correct these inadequacies.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u225	Thank you, Oleg Grigorovich. Dear colleagues, let's take this as a base first and then. I'm sorry, from the faction of Communists Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich, a faction that was not included in the discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u226	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Honorable colleagues and respected scholars, those who studied in postgraduate studies, those who studied in Ph.D. and those who will learn. It's very strange to hear from a famous scientist, a member of the National Academy of Sciences, that there is no doctoral education. There's a term that's used when you're listed or you're fired from basic work for three years, you're admitted to doctoral or postgraduate, and that's called Ph.D. or postgraduate. This is one moment. One second. Why do we break our spears where we don't have to break them? How many doctorates do we have in Ph.D. have this problem? One, two, three people in the state, no more. Because the one who got to the doctoral dissertation, he's basically got so much internship that he doesn't need anyone else anymore. So I'd like to support you from the proposal of the authors.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u227	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I would like to vote on the adoption of the draft Law amending the Law on Scientific and Technological Activities of Ukraine in the first reading. [[Registration number 2166]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:37:02]] For 307 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, one proposal on the substance of the law that has been introduced is the time when this law will become effective so that it will be foreseen on January 01, 2011. Taking this proposal into account, if there is no objection, I am voting on the adoption of the second reading and on the whole draft Act amending the Law on Scientific and Technological Activities of Ukraine. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:37:47]] For 312 The law has been passed in general. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Election of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils and Rural, Rural, Urban Heads is being announced. [[Registration number 1134]] Please, Valery Volodymyrovich Pisarenko. Pisarenko's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u228	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! I would like to offer the room first, taking into account that the relevance of this issue in connection with the start and election campaign and the fact that we have already announced elections to local councils is no longer relevant, I would like to ask the House to vote in favour of this bill in Parliament’s consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u229	Dear colleagues! Is there any objection? I then propose to the author of the legislative initiative Pisarenko Valery Volodymyrovich, who proposes to withdraw this bill. Please vote. [[13:39:09]] For 246 Decision taken. A draft Law on Economic Principles for the Treatment of Certain Property is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 4407]] National deputy Arjev Volodymyr Igorovich reports.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u230	Honourable Chairman, Honourable People's Deputies of Ukraine! Your consideration of the draft Law on Economic Principles for the Treatment of Certain Property is suggested. First of all, it is worth noting that the proposed bill does not in any way touch on privatization issues and land issues. It refers only to confiscated property and property that is considered harmless. I was moved to draft this bill by the fact that today the question of the realisation of non-economic property, which is referred, for example, to the taxation of disarmed property and those subject to renewal, is not regulated at the legislative level. The issue of the implementation of a series of such assets is being addressed, regulated at different times by the legislation of different public authorities: the Customs Service, the Tax Administration, the Ministry of Finance and others. In their time, in pursuit of rather narrow, specific interests, they created each one of their own individual arrangements for the realisation of this property. In fact, the Court of Auditors was very often stressed by the results of the controls carried out as they examined the realisation of the property. My bill proposes to introduce, under the control of the State, the only transparent and clear legal principles governing the settlement of matters of accounting, the calculation of the cost and the procedure for the implementation of individual types of property, the responsibility for its preservation. It is envisaged that the Ministry of Economy of the Centrally Open Information Database on Accountable and Realized Property should be rapidly restored and made publicly available. And the realisation of this property should be through auctions, and not through specific companies that are being created, they are being accepted by every particular department. This will enable the State to have operational and reliable information about this property and allow it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u231	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u232	and will avoid its ineffective use. This bill was supported by the Ministry of Economics of Ukraine, the Committee on Economic Policy. A working group was set up to take into account the thoughts of everyone without the exception of the national MPs. Taking into account the importance and relevance of the issues raised, I propose that we accept them in the first reading and have them processed for second reading, taking into account the suggestions of all legislators. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u233	Thank you. Have a seat, please. The report is headed by the Committee on Economic Policy's subcommittee, Jacenko Anton Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u234	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Economic Policy has considered the bill. I'd like to point out that we've seen it twice. For the first time, the author was asked to return to work, and a working group was set up to include representatives of all factions. And, in principle, the bill was subsequently finalized, taking into account the comments of the people's deputies, the author was finalized. The Scientific and Expert Office also proposes to support it. The author then filed for replacement, and the Committee considered again. We now propose, on behalf of the Committee, that it be adopted on first reading in order to complete the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u235	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Two-for-two-again. Let's sign up. Yavorovsky Volodymyr Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u236	Vladimir Yavorowski, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, town of Kirovograd. Dear colleagues, it seems to me that the symptomatic writing of this law and today's discussion of it, and the authorship of Ariev is that we are very slow and very qualms, and we are still sorting out the system of property in Ukraine, whether it's state or private, whether it's collegiate or private, there and so forth. As a result, this bill seems very important and necessary to me, and the “Julia Timoshenko Block” will vote in favour of it. And I just want to say hello again. Mr. Ariev, Mr. Ariev! Mr. Ariev! Mr. Ariev! I greet you with success, and you do not hear me and what you are. As a result, we support this bill and we propose to adopt it on the first reading and then to conduct a second reading of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u237	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u238	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the national deputy Ariev for the attention he has given to dealing with certain types of property. Of course, I'm critical of his first attempt at serious, critically speaking, that starting with a name that needs to be changed, because the subject of regulation is obviously not an economic principle, as we write about economic principles, but a little bit of other things. You have to change the name of the law once. Secondly, we need to reconcile it, this law, with the Civil Code of Ukraine, especially when we talk about the owner, from which moment the property becomes state property, and where it does not become state property, because it does not yet pass. And I think that this bill should definitely be adopted in the first reading and aligned with the legal committees of our legal ones that are. I think it's going to be a good law to be orderly and not to be allowed to take advantage of, in the state not to create firms that were called, and to all known professionals, and so on, who were cross-breeding and many such firms that were already in the state, acting on their own judgment by some ministers who suddenly put ten times a million later. So I'm going to vote for this law and I'm going to ask you, and I welcome this debut of Deputy Ariev in the sense that, in principle, he was not seen in this queen, except in the media, before. Thank God he joins, a young adult, in such laws. Thank you. Good-bye.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u239	The discussion is over. I am voting on the first reading of the draft Economic Principles Act on Certain Property. [[Registration number 4407]] I'd like to make a statement. [[13:47:19]] For 267 Decision taken. A draft Act on the Strengthening of Responsibility for the Implementation of Juveniles and the Illicit Implementation of Alcohol and Tobacco is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 4784]] Reports Arjev Volodymyr Igorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u240	Thank you, Your Honor, for supporting the previous bill. It's just that it's not happening anymore, it's the second bill that's been passed, but thanks anyway. I'm going to try to introduce you to the third. This bill is neither political nor economic at all, but it is essential. is such that it can substantially change the situation that has taken place in Ukraine today. What's the status? To this day, Ukraine is ranked first in Europe and second in the world as teenagers and children’s alcoholism. Today, at least every second Ukrainian teenager used alcoholic beverages. And it has long been necessary to take one single step: to increase the responsibility for the implementation of alcohol, low-alcoholic and beer for minors under 18 years of age. In my bill, I propose the introduction of criminal responsibility for the implementation of alcoholic beverages by minors and the imposition of substantial fines. This is due to the uncontrolled sale of alcohol to children today. I saw an experiment on TV when the kids got their hidden camera and she went to the dock, the kiosk, and she asked an 11-year-old kid to buy a beer. She's been sold. And this is done throughout Ukraine. Kids are singing today. At 16 years of age, he died of cirrhosis of the liver. I urge you, colleagues, to think first of all about the future of Ukraine, about the young generation. And to this day, I consider this law to be one of the most important, in order to.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u241	Dear colleagues, we're signing up for a discussion. Is there no need to write? Well, there is. Here we have a national MP who needs him. Please log in. Karpuk Vladimir Georgievovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u242	Vladimir Karpuk, MP “For Ukraine!” I think we should support Mr. Vladimir's offer, and that's a very good offer. There are many shortcomings in this system, in implementation, in the installation of kiosks that sell alcoholic beverages and tobacco at school. This disorder is often found in every inhabited area. And so, really, these are crimes, not even transgressions, you have to really punish hard enough, and we supported this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u243	Yavorovsky Volodymyr Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u244	I have no choice but to pass on the word of Carmazin. There's just no other way out.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u245	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u246	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I would have accepted this bill both in the first reading and in general had it not been for one "but". This “but” is that as the leader of the working group in the preparation of the Criminal Code, which worked on it for three years, I see some details here that need to be cleaned. But I'm against one principled position that we have in the Supreme Council. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, I checked once again both my helpers and everyone else. We've asked this question, we've asked others questions. Without consideration on the committee, without the opinion of any committee, without an expert opinion, it's me before we can accept it as a whole, or not, I'm not saying without the expertise that the government should do. That is to say, it is the right suggestion of a colleague named Ariyev that there is no difference between those who sell drugs and those who sell alcoholic beverages to minors. But I want to draw your attention to whether our society is ready for this turn. Here the Criminal Code is supplemented not only by alcohol, but also by soft drinks, or beer. We haven't taken the beer yet, though we might have to take it. This is a discussion that needs to be held both in society and in this room: take the beer to those, compare it, or compare it? But not yet. So I would like to be sure that we would accept it in the first reading, but we have now considered it on a number of committees, including the Committee on Agricultural Policy. So we have to figure out what to do with beer, non-alcoholic beer, and examine it. I think, of course, that what's happening right now in the streets of Kiev, when you buy minors and you walk all with bottles of beer, that's an inconvenience. But if all of us are to be punished, put in prison for selling a bottle of tonic somewhere, it may not be right, for it is openly sold. So let's look at these right over here.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u247	Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u248	Dear Alexander Vladimirović, distinguished colleagues! Of course, the Party of the Regions will support the bill. But the thing is, it's only one side of the medal. And by punishing those who sell beer or selling alcohol or cigarettes to minors today, we will not solve the problem. The problem is that today the Government has turned its back on the children of the growing generation. You remember, in the Soviet Union, how many sports sections, how many sports circles there were, different kinds of activity, cultural palaces and so on. Children were involved, adolescents were involved, and their backyard was uneducated. Today, on a paid basis, it is not that the circles are not opened! I'm taking the Chernigov region: schools are closing, hospitals are closing. In our 45th year, schools were built, hospitals were built. Three hospitals are now left alone. People are on the tracks to save the hospital. Of the three schools, one is left alone. For 20 years, the school was not built in the Chernigov region of Sedna. We decided to build. We started building with the government of Viktor Fedorović Januković, laid the foundation for the school, reached the first floor, reached Yulia Vladimirovna. There wasn't a school, there was a whole center: both a school, and a gym, and a swimming pool. The children were involved. A strong foundation has been laid for the upbringing of a growing generation. Julia Vladimirovna came, she didn't give a penny, she didn't build for two years. But I'm sure that Janukovic, and let me be heard in Chernigovščina, Janukovic started to build a school in Seden as Prime Minister, becoming President, he'll build this school and put it into operation. That's the main problem. We must take advantage of children's leisure, and then there will be no crime, no drug use, no alcoholism. Today, the Government does not even think about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u249	Tomenko Mikola Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u250	Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that we have adopted a bill on the first reading and that there is a problem that Yuri Carmazin said. We compare beer with alcohol, and there are more serious things involved, such as where we can sell. For example, do not sell to the public places, beaches, or so forth, or sell in small kiosks. So my proposal is that we don't get into contradictions, in the first reading vote, and then think about when there's Bill 1171, so that they can systematically solve the problem of both the place of sale and the comparison of beer to alcoholic beverages, that is, systematically solve the problem. So I welcome the initiative of our colleague, and I suggest in the first reading that we vote and synchronize with 1171, who is preparing for the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u251	Thank you, the discussion is over. As a guide, I will inform you that the head of the profiling committee has proposed that this issue be postponed. But according to part three of article 93 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, the deadline given to the committee for consideration, without which the draft law was not being passed in the session hall, ended 4 months ago. The Conciliation Council therefore approved the decision to include the faction on the schedule of meetings, and today it is being considered in accordance with the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I am voting on the adoption in the first reading of the draft Act on the Strengthening of Responsibility for the Implementation of Minors and the Illicit Implementation of Alcohol and Tobacco Products. [[Registration number 4784]] I'd like to make a statement. In the first reading. On the first reading, please vote. [[13:57:35]] For 316 A decision to make. Please, the profile committee is preparing for the second reading. When it's ready, the offer for the Conciliation Council, and we'll look into it. The deadline was given by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It's being announced. We still have time to take a break. 13 hours 58 minutes. The Regulations oblige us to work until 2 p.m. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending the Law on Diplomatic Service of Ukraine. [[Registration number 4785]] Reported by national deputy Tarasjuk Boris Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u252	Boris Tarasyuk. The National Movement of Ukraine, the NH-NS faction. Dear Lord Chairman! Dear colleagues! The bill proposed for your attention was introduced by members of four out of five factions of Parliament, including three professional diplomats in the ranks of extraordinary and valid ambassadors. The bill was developed in consultation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It is worth noting that the idea of amending the current Law on the Service of Diplomacy has long come to light. This law was passed on September 20, 2001. In view of this, the bill proposes to make systematic changes to the current Law on Diplomatic Service. The main objective of the bill is the practical need to improve the organizations and activities of the diplomatic service, taking into account its characteristics and modern development. In connection with the bill, it is proposed to complete the list of basic functions of the service; to clearly identify the bodies that are part of the service and the list of posts; to clarify the criteria and procedures for the selection and appointment and discharge of diplomatic posts; and to establish, at the legislative level, the guarantee of the independence of the foreign minister, in particular in the field of decision-making on the appointment of diplomatic posts. With a view to consolidating the rule of law in the field of service, a bill proposes to supplement the law in force with chapter S of the “Diplomatic rank”. In addition, the bill proposes to make a clear comparison of diplomatic ranks to the appropriate levels of the public service, to improve the order of assignment and the depriving of diplomatic rank. A number of laws are aimed at improving the material, social and household welfare of diplomatic workers. The bill received a positive conclusion from the Chief of Science.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u253	Please finish, Boris Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u254	and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Profiles in Foreign Affairs also supports the adoption of the bill. I ask the Supreme Council to support this proposal, and to adopt this bill in the first reading, taking into account the fact that on December 22nd of this year there will be a diplomat's professional festival - "Diplomatic Workers' Day". Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u255	Thank you, Boris Ivanovich, please sit down. The account. seconds after break
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u256	After the break we have. Please, from the order in which Kožemyakin Andriy Anatoliyovich works. Cosmiakin Andriy Anatoliyovich, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u257	Honourable Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues, the faction of Yulia Timoshenko wants to come out after a four-hour recess, at an evening meeting, to consider how, first of all, the request of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, two projects: the draft Decision on the establishment of the boundaries of the cities of Ahtirka and the establishment of the borders of the city of Krasnoprekopsk. And besides, we'd like to move from the end of the agenda, as we did to the Conciliation Council, if we're willing to do these bills, and consider the bill on amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget with the President's proposals, and it's about allocating funds to overcome the flu epidemic. And the alternative bill, the honourable Mr. Azarov, is also on the allocation, but less on the cost of overcoming the epidemic and reforming medicine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u258	Your Honor, do any of the deputies have objections to this proposal?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u259	None of the national MPs deny it? Is there a denial? Please, Cranowil Taras Viacheslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u260	I don't actually have a objection, but the only correction is that we have to make sure that the Law on Diplomatic Service is under consideration, and then we're going to end all of the proposals that are there.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m0.u261	Well, it's an obvious situation, she doesn't need it. That is, if there is no one who objects, after the completion of the consideration of the Law on the Service of Diplomacy, we turn to the list proposed by the People’s Deputies. A break of 16 hours is announced. The morning plenary session is closed.
