ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u1	Dear colleagues! Please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Council" system. [[16:00:31]] The 430 national deputies registered in the session hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues, we are continuing our consideration of the issues set out in the schedule for today. The Draft Law amending the Law on Financial Services and Public Regulation of Financial Services is being announced for consideration. [[about asset transactions]] The rapporteur is the head of the State Commission for Market Regulation and Financial Services, Suslov Viktor Ivanovich. Correspondent is head of the Committee on Finance and Banking Committee Klimenko Alexander Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u2	Dear Head! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine presents for consideration in the first reading the Draft Law of Ukraine amending the Ukrainian Law on Financial Services and Public Regulation of Financial Services. The purpose of this project is to resolve the issue of financial asset transactions for the benefit of third parties on the basis of the financial assets involved by natural persons. After approval of this project, certain types of operations involving population costs will be subject to licensing. The project also establishes a precise mandate for the State Commission to regulate financial services markets in relation to transactions to a particular type of financial service. And it sets out the responsibility of licensing in cases where the cost of a natural person is involved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u3	Thank you, Victor Ivanovich! Have a seat, please. Mr. Alexander Ivanovich, please take the committee's conclusions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u4	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Your attention is now given to the draft Law to be passed. I'd like to focus on just three points, that's the first thing, that's the involvement of financial assets on a pivotal basis, the involvement of financial assets in the management and the involvement of financial assets in the purpose of providing services. The bill was considered at a meeting of the Supreme Council Committee on Finance and Banking on May 14 and was decided to be based on the first reading. Instead, before the bill itself, there are substantial suggestions to improve it. And I think if the Supreme Council of Ukraine accepts it in the first reading, we'll do it in the second reading. Because there are also references to the European Business Association, which would also like to make adjustments to the bill. I would also like to point out that there is a positive conclusion from the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration regarding the adoption in the first reading of the bill. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u5	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Please sign up for discussion if you need to. Please put the names of the national MPs on the board. There's no one who wants to discuss this bill, it's clear to everyone, that's my conclusion. Dear colleagues! That's why I'm asking for your attention! Please prepare for the vote. A proposal for a committee to adopt a draft Law amending the Law on Financial Services and Public Regulation of the Financial Services Market is put to the vote. Please vote. [[16:04:55]] For the 110. The decision is not supported. By factions, please, the Party of the Regions – 0, "Clock of July Timoshenko" – 43, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" – 22, communists – 25, "Clock of Lithuania" – 20. Why don't you read it again? So let me put it this way, as usual, we're doing it with you, focusing on re-reading the draft law. [[Registration number 2177]] I think as a result of the vote, we will make a decision, please. [[16:05:48]] For 239. Decision taken. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on improving the structure and functioning of the tax police and the social protection of its workers]] The rapporteur is Ukrainian national deputy Moisik Volodymir Romanovich. Correspondent is chairman of the Committee on Legislative Protection of Sweden's Law Enforcement Activities, Viktor Dmitrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u6	Vladimir Moisik, “For Ukraine” MP. Dear Head, distinguished national MPs. Deputies for Ukraine. The Honourable Head, the Honourable National Deputies of Ukraine, the Committee on the Legislative Protection of Law Enforcement, held a field meeting in the State Tax Administration, which was attended by all the heads of the State Tax Administration, the heads of the regional administrations and as a result of the meeting of the Committee of National Deputies of Ukraine, introduced a bill to order the activities of the State Tax Administration's tax administration. As it is known, Decree No. 1013 of October 30, 1996 established the State Tax Administration and included departments to combat the criminal evasion of income from taxation from the Ministry of Internal Affairs system. However, while these workers and their activities are governed by the provisions of the Police Act, when the Law on the Status of Military Veterans and Their Social Protection was passed, the Law did not include, for technical reasons, veterans of the Tax Service, although the members of the IMF, the firemen, the Civil Protection Service, the State Special Liaison Service and others were included in the law, the committee and the authors of the bill propose to correct this imbalance in the bill, which was approved, I repeat, in 2001. One more question.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u7	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u8	Another change concerns the renaming of the name from the Anti-Corruption Office in the Tax Offices for the Internal Security of the State Tax Administration, the investigation departments are renamed to the investigation unit and I will tell you, Mr. Head, and, honourable national deputies, all scientific institutions and information, the committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine supported the bill, the Committee on Budget Affairs recommends only the only validity of the bill of 1 January 2010. Where to get the money for the project, let me tell you, in 2007, the Tax Police mobilised 940 million dollars into the budget, in 2008, 3.2 billion dollars. So these structures are making money, and I would like to adopt the bill in the first reading. Thank you, colleagues, for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u9	Thank you, Vladimir Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u10	One more thing, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u11	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u12	I will report both as the author of the bill, and from the committee, Victor Sweden is also the author of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u13	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u14	The committee is also asking to support our bill. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u15	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the report is done. Please, if there is a need to discuss, let us sign up for the discussion. There's a recording going on. Please put the names of the people's deputies on the board. No one signed up for the performance. Dear colleagues, I'd like your attention. This means that we all share the recommendations made by the committee, namely the adoption of the bill as a basis. May I have your attention, please? A proposal is put to the vote for a committee to adopt, on the basis of a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the improvement of the structure and functioning of the tax police and the social protection of its employees. [[Registration number 2095]] Please vote. [[16:11:06]] For 239. Decision taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 135, “Timoshenko Yulia Block” – 11, “Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense” – 46, Communist faction – 27, “Litvina Block” – 20. A draft Law on Social Protection of Medical and Pharmaceutical Workers, Health Care Workers, is under review. [[Registration number 2538]] The rapporteur is Ukrainian national deputy Grigorovitch Lilia Stepanovna. Correspondent is head of the Health Committee subcommittee Karpuk Vladimir Georgievovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u16	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, a respected medical community! A bill prepared by a group of national MPs on the social protection of medical and pharmaceutical workers is probably a long - awaited and most important tribute to what is called the health of the nation. Because the health of the nation depends on success and prospects, including the strategic country in which we live. It is no secret that the medical community, medical professionals, are divided, even against the background of education workers. And that's why one million 200,000 health workers and, of course, 46 million who are all patients or potential, or real, are able to expect such a legislative act. We in our Hall, respected friends, supported various legislative acts relating to the protection of professions with a large percentage of the population. Remember, we voted 300 and even 400. I will not count those professions; you remember very well how we voted on the laws. Let us ask how they are being implemented today. In view of that group of National Deputies Karpuk, Grigorovich, submitted this bill from the “Block of Lithuania”, and we were confident that on the first reading we could fix a lot of things in order for this bill to be passed in the second reading. But when I asked my colleagues from the Health Committee, and I would like to point out that there is a majority represented by the opposition, we did so collectively. We've called off this bill and we're going to tell you that it's only new with a larger number of participants that we've adapted to both the crisis conditions and the reality of the present. And I'm sure he has the tools that are essential today. Since I have the privilege of representing the group “For Ukraine! ” For us.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u17	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u18	It is not in principle for us to report this law. It is our principle that this law should work and be adopted, for in health care there is such a concept as collegiality. I am sure and very much asking the Head of the Supreme Council that at this same session, the entire committee and practically the quorum in the room, which is absolutely cohesive to today, was introduced at this session and supported by Parliament on the first reading to Medical Officer Day. Thank you. That's why we're taking down this law and asking the committee's joint new legislative act to introduce it at this session and consider it in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u19	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we must now follow the standard. Since the drafter claims that they're filming this project, we need to put it to a vote on acceptance as a basis. Dear colleagues, a motion to withdraw from the draft Law on Social Protection of Medical and Pharmaceutical Workers, Health Workers, is put to the vote. About taking it off, since there's already another project. I'd like your support, Your Honor. [[16:15:49]] For 329 Decision taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 132, “Julia Timoshenko Block” – 132, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” – 46, Communists – 0, “Litvina Block” – 19. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I would like to convey the committee's position: that a more complex bill has been prepared, which the committee will propose shortly before the Supreme Council of Ukraine. A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the improvement of the organizational and legal framework for the detection, prevention and cessation of organized crime and corruption is under consideration. Registration number 3170. The rapporteur is Ukrainian national deputy Vladimir Igorović Ariev. The Coroner is the head of the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption of Igor Kaletnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u20	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! You are considering a draft Ukrainian Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving the organizational and legal framework for detection, warning and cessation of organized crime and corruption. The main purpose of the bill is to restore order and direct subdivision of the special units to combat organized crime of internal affairs in Ukraine to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine and the Chief of the Directorate for Combating Organized Crime. Today, the problem is that the special divisions of WHO are part of the structure of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration's main offices, which in fact deprives them of the ability to carry out the necessary work on their own without a report and permission from the Head of UMBS. Everyone knows that the head of the U.M.S., well, in almost every area, depends on either the mayor or the head of the administration. And addiction does not often expose corrupt schemes, prevent abuse, bribes among high-level owners of the region, and turn a special unit into a normal administrative exchange of militia structures. Of course, this affects the efficiency of the work. It should be noted that in agreement with the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption last year, an anticorruption office was established within the WHO structure. Taking into account that the task of this unit is to detect and eliminate corruption schemes, to identify conditions that lead to abuse and corruption among high-level employees, vertical subordination of the territorial departments to the head office is laid down. The effectiveness of the vertical sub-divisional sub-division and the function of the investigation units was proven in practice until the 1994 amendment to the Ukrainian law on the legal basis of the fight against organized crime. This ensured the availability and operationality of administrative decisions, the close interaction of investigators with operational workers at the operational material stage, and the rapid follow-up of criminal justice. So let's think about how this worked out.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u21	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u22	Think about it. How was it possible to cope with the racket’s upheaval, curb organized crime, halt financial and other affairs, redistribution of privatized objects, and almost daily killings to order in a number of regions of the state? It was then that there was a similar system. The experience of many developed European countries and the United States shows that the necessary condition for an effective fight against organized crime is the creation of independent, separate law enforcement agencies or special units directly subordinated to the highest political leadership of the State. And all the democratic countries that have succeeded in fighting organized crime have done the same thing, this way. Dear colleagues, I propose that you support this bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u23	Thank you. Head of the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption, Igor Kaletnik Please, the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u24	Dear Head, dear colleagues! The purpose of the bill is to increase the effectiveness of the activities of authorized bodies in the fight against organized crime and corruption. To this end, appropriate amendments to the Ukrainian Laws “On the Organizational and Legal Basis for the Fight against Crime” and “On the Fight against Corruption” have been proposed. It is envisaged that the special units of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Chief of the Directorate for Combating Organized Crime be directly subordinated to the organized crime. The proposed branching vertical will focus their efforts solely on the fight against organized criminal groups and the detection of their corrupt links. According to experience, particularly in the United States, Italy, Slovakia, this will help to eliminate the underlying corruption in the ranks of the IMF. It's proposed to enter into the structure of the Special Units of the Investigation Units. This will allow the special divisions to effectively fight crime at all stages, including an investigation that is directly in line with the task imposed on them by the current legislation of Ukraine. In order to ensure stability in the work of special departments, their independence from political factors and interference from unauthorized seniors, it is suggested that the reasons for the dismissal of the Head of the IMF in the fight against crime be clearly defined, to establish that the termination of the authority of the Cabinet or the Minister of Internal Affairs cannot be such a basis. The bill corrects the inadequacy between articles 9, 26, 24 of the Law on the Organizational Fundamentals of the Fight against Crime. Furthermore, article 9 of the Law does not provide for the committee to accept the appointments and layoffs of the heads of the regional special divisions of the IMF, which is a major failure. The last issues that are resolved by the bill are that the names given in the laws of the IMF and BSS units in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea are brought into line with the actual ones. Dear colleagues, the bill has been prepared by members of the committee, taking into account the IMF's proposals and approved unanimously by the committee. Please support the bill and the results of the first reading of the comments to be accepted as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u25	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for the bill. I'd like you to put on the board the name of the national MPs who signed up. Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of Regions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u26	I ask that you pass the word to Mikhail Vasilevich Gjiga.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u27	Mikola Vasilovich Giga, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u28	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The need for the adoption of this law is obvious, because the Law on Organizational and Legal Basiss for Combating Organized Crime is valid, it is obsolete. The bill provides for the introduction into the appropriate structure of special departments to combat the organized crime of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. The point is that the appointment of the heads of the city and district administrations of WHO to positions is carried out without agreement with the committee while the Security Service agrees with the committee. While prosecutors who oversee the activities of special departments are also appointed to agree with the committee. It's the only point that needs to be balanced and then used at the same level. The second money in this bill is that the head of the Directorate-General for Combating Organized Crime is assigned to the IMF for five years. Why is this being done? In order not to be when a team in the ministry changes, the college changes, the minister changes, the entire vertical changes immediately, starting with the first deputy minister and ending with all the heads of the U.K. This is unacceptable because sometimes people who do not understand the work at all are appointed. So I would like to support this bill and accept it as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u29	National Deputy Bobilov, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u30	National Deputy Bobilov, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Indeed, this is an important law and changes in the appointment and work of the special divisions of AIDS should take place. But the law needs to be changed completely. Today, the head of the UBZ administration is the first deputy head of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Therefore, if we are to organize and assign ourselves to follow the direction of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, this position should be simplified. Yeah, there are some moments for it, but there are a few moments against it, so I'd suggest you take it as a basis, but in the first reading, and work on the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u31	Dear colleagues! The draft law has been completed. [[Registration number 3170]] The proposal for a committee to adopt is based on the draft law “On amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine on the improvement of organizational and legal bases, the detection of warnings and the cessation of organized crime and corruption”. [[Registration number 3170]] Please vote. [[16:26:07]] For three hundred Decision taken. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Code of Masters is being announced for consideration. [[on the form of a land lease agreement]] Registration number 1135. Rapporteur – Ukrainian National Deputy Pisarenko Valeriy Volodymyrovich, co-rapporteur – head of the Committee on Economic Policy's subcommittee, Voropeyev Yuri Mikolajovic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u32	Dear colleagues! I'm proposing a bill under number 1135 concerning amendments to the Code of Masters. This is actually a technical solution to the regulation of relations under the Code of Lords, precisely those provided for in the preamble to the Code of Lords. The essence of the legislative initiative is the following. Part one of article 290 of the Ukrainian Code of Master determines that land rental relations as a means of production are governed by the Ukrainian Code of Land and other laws. The relevant Ukrainian Code of Land specifies that this is the prerogative of this code, namely, the regulation of these relations, i.e. the Ukrainian Code of Lordship contains a reference to special legislation, which in this case is the Land Code and the land lease law of Ukraine. Part two and part three of article 290 of the Ukrainian Code of Masters also regulate individual issues of land relations. They set requirements for mandatory notarial certification of land leases, the establishment of rules, and the determination of land use fees. The same standards are regulated today by land legislation and set some other parameters that cause some disagreement in land rental. However, according to part one of article 4 of the Code of Masters of Ukraine, land relations are not subject to the codex, and this actually creates in the middle of the Code of Lords invalidity. This shows that their existence in the Codex of the Master is not valid. Thus, the situation of article 290 is directly in conflict with the provisions of article 4 of the same legislative act, which poses some problems in the legal regulation of land relations. I've already had contact with some of my colleagues today who see that we can work on the second reading of this bill, even though there have been thoughts on the committee that it can be accepted in general and on the basis that there is no order of change.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u33	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u34	Because the order of change is extremely small. That's why the bill received the appropriate positive conclusions and scientific expertise from the Main Committee. Please support this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u35	Thank you. Yuri Mikolaiovich, please make a decision by the committee on the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u36	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that, just a few days ago, we had before us in this room a draft Law 0977 on the same subject. And when the Committee on Economic Policy considered two of these bills, 0977 and 1135, the Committee decided that it was more convenient for citizens to apply and that it was more complete than 0977, which would be in full compliance with the requirements of the State, the interests of the State and the population after finalization. The Committee therefore recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt and adopt it on first reading 0977. It is proposed that 1135 be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u37	So you've got it? Yes. Thank you. We'll discuss it now. Dear colleagues! Please sign up for Bill 1135. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board, Sergey Ribuk faction of the Party of the Regions?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u38	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! It is quite clear here that the issue of the contract and the form of the lease of the land by the drafters of the bill is quite fair and should be left behind and refined in the Land Rental Act. And the Codex of the Master merely mentions how these articles are appropriate, and they refer to the land lease law. Yes, so that there is no double interpretation and repetition, I propose to support the proposals and vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u39	Thank you. Valerius Pisarenko faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u40	Dear colleagues! Once again, I don't know why it was just a comment from the committee that the Committee's decision of 28.05.2008 decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Code of Masters to be accepted as a basis. [[No. 1135]] This is the committee's decision. I don't know why it came in a different form right now. But you know, when we say that there's some kind of bill that's still in detail, maybe solves this problem, let's just make sure that every problem is solved by an appropriate bill. That bill that we're going to be voting with you right now, it solves exactly the exact problem, namely that the Code of Masters does not regulate land relations today is the first. Second, the Land Code establishes today that land leases are not subject to mandatory notarial certification, which provides grounds for notifying land leases on a case-by-case basis, and in some cases not to certify land legislation. And you know, in that saying, everyone's right. Therefore, in order to remove the legal conflict today, we certainly need to vote in favour of this “precise treatment” of the Code of Lords and for Bill 1135 on the basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u41	National MP Gordijenko is handing over the right to speak to Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u42	Dear colleagues, honourable author of the Wallery Bill! I think you're treated by most of the audience in the room as a person who knows the law and who doesn't do anything like that. So I have a question, why did you do that? So let me explain the situation to you and I think you'll agree with me. Well, it also interferes with who, if there are two parts of the article now in the Codex of the Master, that are proposed to be excluded. I'll tell you what's proposed to be excluded, and you'll understand why they want to be expelled, saying they're somewhere else. It's in the Codex of the Earth, let it be in the Codex of the Master. If you say they're still somewhere. What do they want to rule out? The lease of land without a contract entered into in writing, certified in writing and registered in accordance with the law, is not permitted. I mean, right now it's taking away and please, the rent you want, fool the peasants any way you want, because there's no contract, and there's no act. The third part that is proposed to be excluded. The size of the payment for the use of a land that is a state property or a municipal property. It cannot be lower than established according to the Law. The cases of exemption for land use or reduction of wages are determined by law. Which is why you want to take them if you say they're still somewhere. So don't do or spin, it's clear what it's for. Because they start and end with what they started. You don't do anything like that. So I'm proposing, by no means, that no one should support these unneeded offers.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u43	What lines, I can't understand. At the conclusion of the discussion, please let your fellow Members, in accordance with the Rules, reveal to you one minute of the faction that did not speak, the wish of Sergey Tereshuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u44	Sergey Tereshuk, Lithuanian Block faction. In some parts, we can agree with Adam Ivanovich. We really need to make legislation so that it stands on the watch of the peasants. Because peasants today are not so concerned with legislation and are easily deceived. We need to think about how to protect their interests. But at the same time, we have to think about how they can realize this right, the right to rent their land. Whoever is in the districts may not have a meeting where there are claims from peasants who have to travel for three nine lands to find a notary, few to pay for the money and find it, to stand in line and pay for the act. The fact is that the land lease law allows this to be done on a voluntary basis. Which of the peasants wants to protect their rights more assuredly, they can find a notary and protect them, make an appropriate inscription. Anyone who doesn't want to do it may not do it. The treaty will be deemed right when it does.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u45	Give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u46	So let's, let me go to the authors of the law, let's write it out in more detail, because this is about millions of our peasants. So let's write this down so that the farmer can decide whether to go to a notary or whether to register a contract, a state registration, to conduct a land lease agreement. So we need to be more balanced.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u47	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. Before the vote of Valery Pisarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u48	I, like many of my colleagues, respectfully refer to them and to their point of view, want to explain once again the motivation of this law that I came out of. Today, in fact, we have driven a peasant into a corner where we force them to rent them, so that they can have something out of that land, and they have to give a notary certificate of the contract, and I want to remind them that once, there and by law, we've forbidden them to actually compare them to notarial certificates of contracts in local silandas and we've passed them all over to the notary office, and the notary one, maybe the area, we need to go to the area, and you know how much it costs. So today, for the most part, it is possible to think about how many notaries will earn or how many millions of Ukrainian citizens will feel when they want to spend, to stand up for their land rights. And I specifically made the law so that there was no possibility of then somehow making it there.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u49	Dear colleagues, please note that the proposal for a committee to adopt is submitted to the vote on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Economic Code on the form of a land lease agreement, re-entry number 1135, please vote. Please vote. [[16:38:50]] For-182 The decision is not taken. The second proposal for re-reading the draft law amending the Ukrainian Code of Masters on the form of a lease agreement on the form of a land lease agreement, registration number 1135, is put to the vote. Please vote. [[16:39:25]] For 201 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. The draft Act amending article 11 of the Ukrainian Police Act, registration number 2099, has been announced for consideration. [[on the basis of detention of persons suspected of being wandering]] The rapporteur is the head of the committee's subcommittee on legislative enforcement of the law enforcement agencies of Moysik Volodymyr Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u50	Vladimir Moisik is a “For Ukraine” MP. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs. Article 11 of the Police Act provides for the right of police personnel to be held for 30 days by persons suspected of being involved in vagrancy. And this detention is being carried out under the approval of the prosecutor. At the same time, even in the Code of Administrative Offences, not to mention the criminal process, all detentions, all willless acts are under way. The bill therefore proposes that article 11 of the law amend the words “with the approval of the prosecutor” to replace the words “by a reasoned decision of the court”. On the other hand, there are, honourable colleagues, the European Committee for the Prevention of Torture and Inhuman or Demeaning of the Dignity of Conduct, and its recommendations to ensure that such detention takes place on the basis of a reasoned decision of the court. And I want to give you an example from the complaint that came to our committee. The man was robbed by thieves. They've been found. He was imprisoned, but for doing so, they wrote to the police that he was involved in a murder. The victim of the crime came to the police. His passport was simply thrown out and he was detained on suspicion of vagrancy. During these 30 days, he was working with him to confess to a crime, to commit murder. They didn't prove anything, but he spent 30 days in a butthole without a court order. So the drafter of the bill, and our committee, invites you, honourable colleagues, to accept it as a basis and as a whole. He's not here.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u51	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u52	There are no observations and no scientific expertise. I'd like your colleagues to support you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u53	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? Yes. Please sign up. There's a recording going on. Please put the names of the people's deputies on the board. Sveslav Olijnik, faction of the Timoshenko Yulia Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u54	Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that the issue that is now being raised has not arisen today, and this is actually what we're dealing with with is the atavism of Soviet times when any person could have been taken and only because he has no passport or passport, he has some claim to this passport, he throws up to 30 days, without any court decision. To this day, so-called distribution receivers who are in the district centers filled with these people, and these people are actually there without proper legal grounds. That is why it is vital to resolve this issue and to put an end to the practice immediately when the police can only detain a person because someone did not like it. It's not just a practice that we're following today, it's a practice that is supported by both European countries, and it's actually something that needs to be addressed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u55	Thank you. Jaroslav Mikhailovich Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u56	Dear colleagues, every morning, and this is a good practice, Vladimir Mikhailovich is bringing statistics to our work in the session hall. And the figures are supposed to be pretty good, and they certainly tell us about the stability of the situation in the Supreme Council. That's not bad either. But this day, why I asked for my word, I have the impression that those bills that we're considering that the Supreme Council is living its life, the Kabmen is living its life, the Secretary of the President is living some kind of bizarre life in general. What we are adopting in this session hall today and in the preceding days, we are considering drafts. Colleagues, where and when will we finally see anti-crisis laws from the government and from the President? There were MPs here, they were all committed, and we turned them down. There were bills that were introduced here to combat unemployment. The government intervened -- and now we have a huge problem with private agriculture, with the power to get unemployment aid. What do we give to society instead? The rise in repressive, militia, and tax pressure, the rise in price pressure. The incoherence and incompetence of power and parliamentary majority are evident. Remember, on March 3, we passed the 13 percent import law -- today we're going to cancel it. And the last. Ladies and gentlemen, remember our parliamentary hearings here: we have made two decisions. It takes only 69 million dollars to complete the construction of centers, so-called shelters, where these people, homeless and homeless, would be able to be. We didn't have a 2008 budget, we don't have a 2009 budget. Let's -- I call on the government from this rostrum -- introduce anti-crisis documents, introduce a package of anti-crisis legislation, because it's gonna be late.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u57	Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. I'd like to take note of Jaroslav Mikhailovich's remarks. We must all work more actively to ensure that Ukraine does not become one great homeless person. The committee's proposal was essentially discussed here: on the basis that a draft of this law should be adopted. Therefore, honourable colleagues, I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending article 11 of the Ukrainian Police Act. [[on the basis of detention of persons suspected of being wandering]] Registration number 2099. Please vote. [[16:47:03]] For 373 That way we can accept it. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? The committee proposes to accept this project in the second reading and generally as a law, for there is one article. No objections? Does no one insist on another thought? A second reading proposal is put to the vote and, as a whole, a bill amending article 11 of the Ukrainian Police Act concerning the grounds for the detention of persons suspected of wandering. Registration number 2099. Please vote. [[16:47:52]] For 390 The law is passed. The draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Measures to Prevent and Reduce Tobacco Use and its Harmful Effects on Population Health is being announced for consideration. [[on bringing certain provisions into line with the Framework Convention on the Fight against Tobacco]] Registration number 2110. Rapporteur of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Zosula, co-reporter of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Guyday. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u58	Honorable National Deputies, the Honourable Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, for consideration by the Supreme Council, are proposed by my Bill No. 2110, which aims to take the necessary steps to protect the nation’s health from the harmful effects of tobacco and to contribute to the reduction or cessation of tobacco use. It is envisaged to achieve this through the introduction of certain terms and provisions of the Ukrainian Law on Measures to Prevent and Reduce the Use of Tobacco Products and Their Harmful Effects on Population Health, in accordance with the Framework Convention on the Fight against Tobacco, ratified by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 15 March 2006. The adoption of this draft law will provide additional guarantees to reduce the harmful effects of tobacco on people’s health, as well as to prevent the negative social and environmental effects of tobacco consumption. With the adoption of this bill, national legislation will be brought into line with the international treaty ratified by Ukraine. The main scientific and expert body of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has reached a positive conclusion and believes that the draft results of the first reading can be taken as a basis. The bill is also supported by the Health Committee. Please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u59	Thank you. Please take the position of the committee on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u60	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! The Health Committee, at its meeting, considered a bill submitted by the People's Deputy Zosulai proposing to amend the five articles of the Ukrainian Act on Measures to Prevent and Reduce Tobacco Use and Their Harmful Effects on Public Health. As already noted, the purpose of this bill is to bring Ukraine's individual concepts and provisions into line with the requirements of the WHO Framework Convention on Tobacco Control. However, after reviewing the bill, the Committee notes that many of its provisions require substantial technical and legal drafting. Many legislative proposals have already been resolved by existing Ukrainian legislation. It should also be noted that the individual provisions of the bill are unclear, which may lead to difficulties in the application of those rules in practice, while others contain rules that are not the requirements of the framework convention. In view of the above, the Committee recommends that the Supreme Council adopt the proposed draft law on Ukraine as a basis and entrust the Committee on Health with its finalization, taking into account the comments and proposals made by the actors of the legislative initiative's second reading law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u61	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for the bill. National MP Reva, faction of the Party of the Regions. Is there no national MP? Zibenko Peter Stepanovich, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u62	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! You know, when you look at some of the legislation, it seems that humanity has lost its instincts of self-preservation. It's me, in particular, and it's about this bill that we're considering today. Do we, especially in our society, lack the misery that Chernobyl has caused today? Do we today lack other problems, continuing to destroy our own health? I still understand people who make their own decisions about themselves. What about the so - called passive smokers, those who do not smoke themselves, but suffer the consequences of today? Therefore, the faction of the Ukrainian Company will vote in favour of this bill and, I believe, it is on time today, and this issue must be solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u63	Dear colleagues, all who signed up, took the floor. Please. Who? Mikola Tomenko, the faction didn't act.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u64	Dear colleagues, I want to support the reporter who represented the BUT faction and the committee, and to say that I was one of the initiators of the adoption of this law. And really, there are enough problems in practice that this law solves. For example, we set a standard of 50 percent in food establishments. Restaurant owners, cafes go the easy way. Or, let's say they define the basement as a place where it doesn't burn, and the whole restaurant area is in the smoking system. Or they find a place that, as Cibenko said, is influenced by, as it were, tobacco and smoke, that in no way does it settle this issue. We are clearly settled here in the law on the influence of the Ministry of Health. Because there's a lot of power structures that take care of it. There will be a clearer position here only by health authorities. And there's a very important thing, and then we motivate the activities of local self-government bodies that can regulate and control the matter more clearly. I think it's extremely important that we have a clear position on schools, sports institutions, because the absurd situation, we go to concessions, let's say we give land or an opportunity to create a sports club, or a gym and a health club, and in the area where children are engaged, is a cafe or a bar where smoking is allowed from morning to evening. So, my friends, I also support the committee's position that in the first reading we adopt and further debate tools and mechanisms so that a really healthy way of life expands territory in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u65	Dear colleagues! May I have your attention, please? The proposal for a committee to adopt is based on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Measures to Prevent and Reduce the Use of Tobacco Products, Their Harmful Effects on the Health of the Population, and to bring certain provisions into line with the Framework Convention on the Fight against Tobacco. Please vote. Please vote. [[16:56:11]] For 247 Decision taken. May I have your attention, please? There are calls to vote in the second reading of the whole as a law. What's the committee's offer? Dear colleagues! Please, if the committee refuses. I'm asking you to calm down. No, the thing is, they're now offering to accept it as a whole. Dear colleagues! The committee proposes to finalize the bill. Let's ask the committee to propose that we shorten the preparation for the second reading. No objection to shorten the preparation for second reading? I'm putting this motion to a vote. Please vote. [[16:57:22]] For 246 Decision taken. The remaining privileges remain until this law is finally passed. Dear colleagues, the draft law on amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State regulation of the production and circulation of ethyl alcohol, cognac and fruit, alcoholic beverages and tobacco products is under consideration. Registration number 3634. Rapporteur – Ukrainian National Deputy Kruglov Mikola Petrovich, co-rapporteur – head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy Terjehohin Sergey Anatoliyovich. Please. Dear colleagues, I beg your attention, there has been an insistence on this bill, there is now no reporter and no co-rapporteur. There's only one thing left to do then. Dear colleagues, when there is no objection, and in the absence of a reporter, and a coconspirator, let us postpone the consideration of this bill. There's no objection. Thank you. The draft Act amending articles 21 and 33 of the Ukrainian Labour Protection Act is being announced for consideration. [[concerning the granting of work start-up permits and the operation of high-risk equipment]] The rapporteur is Ukraine's national deputy, Biruk Lev Vasilovich. Correspondent is the head of the Subcommittee, the Committee on Social Policy and the work of Schmelov Svetlana Alexandrovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u66	Dear Mr. Head, honourable colleagues, the draft law of Ukraine amending articles 21 and 33 of the Ukrainian Labour Protection Act has been developed to implement the requirements of the Ukrainian Act on Allowance in Economic Activities to Improve Labour Protection Legislation. The purpose of this act was to ensure the implementation of the requirements of the Ukrainian Law on Allowance in Economic Activities concerning the granting of permits for the commencement of work of increased risk and the beginning of the operation of equipment of increased risk. The draft act, in accordance with the requirements of article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on the Allowance of Economic Activities, determines the need to obtain documents of a permissive nature, defines the authority authorized to issue it, the time limit for the decision or issue and the refusal to grant a permit. This area is regulated by the Ukrainian Law on the Free System of Economic Activities. If the bill is adopted, there is no need to make changes to other laws. The introduction of this act does not require material and other costs of the State. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u67	Thank you. Svetlana Alexandrovna, please, the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u68	What can be said there? Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! At its meeting on 5 September 2008, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy and Work reviewed the draft Ukrainian Act amending articles 21 to 33 of the Ukrainian Labour Protection Act, introduced by the National MP in Ukraine by Biruk. The bill is proposed to be identified and fixed. Ouch! In the Law on the Protection of Work, the employer’s permission to begin his work is orderly. And the use of high-risk equipment, the grounds for refusing to grant such a permit, and the requirements for publishing such information. The Committee supports the legislative initiative and notes that the adoption of the law will enable legislation on labour protection to be brought into line with the basic principles of State policy on the issue of the permit system. According to the committee, the adoption of the bill implements the position of part four of article 43 of the Constitution of Ukraine according to the right of citizens to adequate safe and healthy working conditions. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine believes that the first reading of the bill makes it appropriate to accept the bill on the basis of observations and suggestions. Minpraci, Minust, Minfin, Dergyrpromview, and the Federation of Ukrainian Trade Unions support the bill, taking into account their proposals. In view of the above, the Committee decided to propose to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Articles 21 and 33 of the Ukrainian Labour Protection Act. Of course, the second reading will take into account all the suggestions and amendments that will be made to improve this bill. I suggest you take it as a basis in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u69	Thank you, Svetlana Alexandrovno! Dear colleagues! Please sign up for a draft law. It's a recording. Please put the names of the people's deputies on the board. Mikhailo Vasilovich Chečetov faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u70	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The bill is proposed to implement the requirements of the Ukrainian Law on the Free System of Economic Activities to determine the procedure for employers to be allowed to start their work and to operate high-risk equipment, the grounds for refusal and cancellation of such authorisation, the requirements for the publication of such information. According to the author, the bill provides for the possibility of the subject of the right to take action, a comprehensive list of grounds for refusal and revocation, a free permit, and so on. Let us note that the adoption of the bill will allow for the introduction of legislation on protection in line with the basic principles of State policy on the issue of the free system in the field of economic activity. This is the transparency of the permit procedure, the reduction in the level of government regulation of economic activity, the maintenance of equality of the rights of operators when granting permits. A party of regions is proposing to adopt this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u71	Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk faction of Communists, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u72	Dear colleagues, the attitude toward this bill is ambiguous. On the one hand, the author of the bill was adamant to us that it was caring about the working conditions of man, beyond a doubt. But how do they care? They make sure that you never start a construction project. You realize that there is now another additional condition to take any mechanism to the construction site. First, we need to establish whether it's an increased danger or not. The increased danger is identified as being written here by the authors of the bill, special scientific research institutes, laboratories and so on. So if you want to know whether you need to go to the lab to worship, give me a conclusion that's dangerous. Then go to a special authorized authority, either in the Ministry here or in the area somewhere, give me that permission. I think it's a thought-out, totally premeditated subject. We have both the Criminal Code and other codes where people are responsible for security violations. If he did, that employer, the mechanism with the security breach, he'd have permission or not, he'd have criminal responsibility. Why do we come up with an additional campaign of people in offices? What are we going to do with the extra work of the Cabinet of Ministers? Because it says here that the list, which is safe, has to be determined by a special decree of the Cabinet of Ministers. What, the Cabinet of Ministers is in crisis today? Let us not support this bill, but thank the author for his concern for man. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u73	Dear colleagues, discussion of the draft Act amending articles 21 and 33 of the Ukrainian Labour Protection Act, registration No. 1389 has been completed. [[concerning the granting of work start-up permits and the operation of high-risk equipment]] The Committee recommends that the draft Law be adopted as a basis. A proposal for adoption is then put to the vote on the basis of the draft Act amending articles 21 and 33 of the Labour Protection Act, registration number 1389. [[concerning the granting of work start-up permits and the operation of high-risk equipment]] Please vote. [[17:07:29]] For 303 Decision taken. It is announced before the review of the Draft Law amending the Energy Conservation Act, registration number 3172. [[on State policy]] Rapporteur of the Committee on Fuel Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, Pashinsky Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u74	Good evening, Reverend Head, distinguished colleagues. From time to time in a period of energy crisis, we're talking about energy conservation, we're starting to analyze, we're finding that the GDP of Ukraine is one of the most energy efficient in the world, we're using energy resources for a unit of GDP, even more than in Russia. And then, when the situation is settled in one way or another, the question goes away. Amendments to the law are meant to transform the activities of the National Agency of Ukraine on the issue of ensuring the efficient use of energy resources in a more efficient manner: granting it intersectoral status; organising the work of state energy, energy-saving inspection; and the functioning of NAER itself. Today, in many areas, we are taking steps to introduce energy-efficient technologies, we are conducting intergovernmental negotiations, there are even minor positive changes, and I think we need to structure this activity clearly by making necessary changes to the law, which will allow for clear coordination, control and guidance. The adoption of this bill does not entail any additional cost of the budget. The point is to give more clear powers to the central executive authority. A bill agreed by both the committee and the executive authorities came several round tables, supported by society, the public, hope, will be supported in this room. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u75	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for a discussion of the draft law. Please put the names of the people's deputies on the board. Katerina Vaszczuk faction “Lituin’s Block”.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u76	Dear Head, dear colleagues! Of course, this bill, by its name, seemed to have an extremely important meaning. Unfortunately, it's narrowed down to sorting this direction to, in fact, increasing the role of management structure. From the point of view of energy efficiency, it's good. From the point of view that he's going to encourage this production community, that's good too. But what I wanted was for the second reading, either in this law or in others, we really did write down standards that encourage all the producers to save energy. How Is Today Really? There's a signed contract, let's say an agrarian enterprise with an energy company. One way or another, the company has done its best to save electricity, spent less than it is under contract. It seemed necessary to say thank you to such an enterprise. Nothing like that. The energy company is charging him with huge fines for not using energy. I think if we do that, it was once with gas. Now with electricity. And if we do so to preserve all the energy resources in Ukraine, no restructuring of structures will really help us fight for energy conservation. And in the first reading, the law will support the faction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u77	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u78	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, let's see how those countries with only a hint of the crisis come out of the crisis, we have a bilateral inflammation of the lungs. Nevertheless, normal countries have developed a single anti-crisis programme, where consensus has been reached on a public, self-consensual basis, where financial resources have also been compromised, uprooted, and begun to work and get out of the crisis. We're already passing through, and we're only exacerbating the bilateral inflammation of the lungs, because we're in a crisis for six months now, in this swamp. There is no single anti-crisis programme and no budget, no budget changes for the programme. Let's move on. Well, God is with him, he lacks the capacity of a professional intellectual program of the government to submit. Let's at least give industry rescue programmes, industry development, industry strategies, industry exit strategies. Also net. Now think about what paradox we're coming up with. The Law is very important, the Energy Conservation Act, and the State Strategy. Well, it would seem who, no one should be the government to pass the law. I respect the people's MP, but I'm sorry, man, if he didn't work for the Minister, the Prime Minister, or the Deputy Prime Minister, who doesn't know the field, and he's passing the law. I'm bending. I'm thanking him for telling him he's good, yeah. But where's our government, huh? Isn't there a professional capacity to pass this law? Then why do we need the government that we're adopting today, we're covering holes, we've got one hole in it. Pisarenko said yes, and this is the local law, we'll put a hole in it. Well, the MP can fix it, but the government that's running the holes doesn't need it, we'll never get out of the crisis. And in this bill, lobbyists' ears are stuck, good lobbyists' ears that have to be cut with scissors. That's where it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u79	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u80	The Party of the Regions proposes to reject this law. And let the government provide a normal programme of energy conservation. What, no professionals or what? And they are registered in their professional insolvency! It's a disgrace! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u81	Dear colleagues, the speech is over. Alexander Lavrinovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u82	Dear colleagues, I have asked for the opportunity to say from a very formal point of view that we now have a draft law that we don't often have because not often does the Supreme Council of Ukraine want to take over the functions of the Cabinet of Ministers. In this case, it looks almost 100% that we don't trust our government, which has the right to create executive organs, has the right to determine the subject of their knowledge, and we write not only that we create something, but we create territorial offices, we grant the right to create our own enterprises to this formed body, and so on. This is the exclusive mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I would like to draw attention to this when I define my attitude toward the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u83	Ladies and gentlemen. Please, the microphone, the Pashinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u84	Dear friends, I'd like to give you a little explanation. In fact, there is, well, such a small problem is that it's a parliamentary bill, not a government bill. But the provisions of this bill have gone through expertise and are supported by the National Agency itself and by the Ministry of Profiles. So there's no contradiction here. Just technically, given that this bill had been filed, the committee had passed before, it was decided to put it into the hall. So there's no contradiction here.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u85	Dear colleagues, the committee recommends acceptance as a basis. The conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration is that they don't support this project. At the same time, I would like to take a look at the Committee's conclusion, namely: the proposal to adopt a draft Law amending the Energy Conservation Act, registration number 3172. [[on State policy]] [[17:16:59]] For 171 The decision is not supported. A motion to re-read the draft law amending the Ukrainian law on energy conservation is put to the vote. [[on State policy]] Ah, take it off, please. A motion to re-read the draft law amending the law on energy conservation is put to the vote. [[on State policy]] Registration number 3172. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:17:44]] For 221 The decision is not taken, the bill is rejected. A draft law amending certain legislative acts is being announced for consideration. [[on the obligation to bring court decisions to the Single State Register]] Registration number 3214. Rapporteur – Ukrainian National Deputy Stretovich Vladimir Mikolajovic, co-rapporteur – head of the Committee on Justice Novikov Yulia Volodymyrovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u86	Dear Mr. Head, the distinguished are present. Yesterday there were parliamentary hearings in this room, thanks to the love of the committee head, I was written at 22 hours and did not wait. But what I'm saying is that in order for us to make plans to reform the judicial system, we need to do three of the only things. First, it's perfect legislation. Second, professional patriotic selection of judges. And thirdly, it is the political will of the country's superiors and all politicians to make the judicial system proper. Just to solve the first problem, an improved law-making bill is directed at you. The need for its adoption is based on the need to ensure the full timely adoption of judicial decisions in the Single State Register of Judgments and to improve the implementation of the Ukrainian law on access to judicial decisions, adopted in 2005, by means of the introduction of judicial decisions to the administrator of the register in electronic form. In addition, the proposed draft Ukrainian law amending certain legislative acts to improve access to judicial decisions aimed at increasing the informationity of the register by complementing information on the judicial decision of the legal force and on other judicial decisions in this case. There will also be a reduction in the enrollment burden by removing administrative infringement orders from the register. The purpose of the project is to increase transparency in the activities of the courts, to avoid the execution of implementing documents issued by the court without a court decision or on the basis of falsified court decisions, to reduce raids and to ensure the proper implementation of the Law on Access to Judgments. The benefits must be attributed to ensuring that decisions are fully implemented at the right time in the register, that registrations are reduced, that court decisions are brought before the administrator in electronic form, that the register is made more informationable by compiling information on the legal effect of judicial decisions. This innovation will not require new funding from the State Budget, but rather because it will reduce its workload in connection with the exclusion of decisions on matters.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u87	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u88	This volume is going to go down even further. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u89	Thank you. Please, Novak's Julia Volodymyrna, head of the Committee on Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u90	I want to point out that this bill has caused enough serious discussion on our committee. The point is that the main idea of the bill is that it is proposed to give legal effect to a court decision, i.e. it will only take legal effect after further action has been taken, namely, putting it in the register, in the general register of court decisions. Thus, the principle is violated that judicial decisions are made only by the courts and can lead to an increase in the possibility of manipulation in order to prevent the court’s decision from being executed or to withdraw it in order to enable the debtor to hide the funds and property that may be reimbursed. The execution of a court decision will depend not only on the technical capabilities of a court but also on the operationality of the register's IT administrator. The proposed changes to part three, article three of the Law on Access to Judgments, as a prerequisite for the execution of a court decision, also provides for a registration number. This requirement is controversial, since the text of the decision is made before it is entered into the register, that is, the assignment of this number must be made at the time of the court’s decision. Next. The bill does not take into account the situation where only the introductory and resolution part or only the resolution part of the criminal proceedings is declared. And the decision itself is still being made, and it's being implemented, and it's still being made within a few days. Furthermore, according to articles 197, 222 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, there is no record of an appeal and cassation of the case.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u91	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u92	In other words, a lot of comments to this bill. I would also like to point out that the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, as a result of the first reading, is proposing that the bill should give the subjects the right of legislative initiative back to work. However, the committee decided to recommend that the bill should be adopted as a basis and that it should be elaborated very seriously in the process of preparing for the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u93	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for the bill. Please put the names of the people's deputies on the board. Vadim Koleschenko, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u94	Dear colleagues, the bill relates to the fact that we all know what raids are and what theft is through judicial decisions. If we can for the first time finally ensure legal conditions for the control of the judiciary by obtaining judicial decisions at the time of their publication, of course, the number of raids and illegal decisions will decrease. The same is true of the notorious decision on Ternopol, which was made in Kiev for some reason, because it was not on the register either. Although the same court decisions must be made in a single registry today, then we would have to move away from double decisions, from triple decisions, and most importantly, we could ensure that the judiciary is kept clean and transparent. Of course, there are many complexities and contradictions in this bill. And there was a sufficient number of disputes in the committee on this issue. However, it would be right to pass this bill into a separate bill, which would not be part of procedural legislation, because we have several: both economic, criminal and civil. And if we put it into a separate bill, that would be more correct, we could take into account all the nuances, the details of the application of this rule. Therefore, I think we can agree with the Committee's proposal to accept it as a basis and to take these shortcomings into account in the second reading, and most importantly, I believe that the adoption of the bill will significantly improve the judicial system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u95	Oleg Zarubinsky, Lithuanian Block faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u96	Oleg Zarubinsky, Block of Lithuania. Dear colleagues! This is the case when the right subject of the legislative initiative is to consider this initiative because of the prism of the idea and philosophy of the project. But you know there is also a part of the truth in the statement of the committee that they say that an unpleasant situation may arise when it is actually chronologically disturbed, what it should be for. So the decision of the court of law should be a key moment, not a single register. So we can agree on that. But considering the importance of this idea of its implementation on the scales of the scales and the comments that can be made to the second reading, the first is to take the mountain, more precisely. Why? Because we're all very upset when there's a court decision based on so-called forged documents. The forged judgment of the court is today the “storage of hell”, which is called. Because based on falsified court decisions, based on illegal documents, so-called, decisions are made and actions are taken, both raiding and illegality, and so on. So it seems to me that if you look at the positives from the adoption of this bill already clarified in preparation for second reading, which is greater transparency, this is greater publicity and I would say this is a greater legitimacy of decisions. Since the only register it will be available to all, it will be available to all participants in the process, it will allow more transparency, as it is now fashionable to say, to carry out justice and justice in a transportable manner, it obviously does. We will vote, the Lithuanian Block faction, on the basis of the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u97	Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, Communist faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u98	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to begin by thanking the drafter for his work, but the bill is rejected and I'll explain why. Absolutely the right idea, I think we're going to lead her, as they say, into the path. It is right that before making a decision, it is necessary to make sure that it is the right decision, but there is one "but". You see, we're creating an additional corruption chain, there's a court decision, it should go into register. Who's going to be in the register, the head of the court? No, it's not. Who's got to put a piece of paper in the register to register, the secretary or someone who's going to court when they do, if I'm talking right? Did you? I got it. Or perhaps not, and the judgment is not being executed. That is, the bill requires that the judge be obliged to take immediate responsibility. Because I was now told the information, Roman Mikhailovich, and perhaps you as the minister of justice to confirm that after each decision of the court, the judges are obliged to inform the Internal Affairs Office of such a decision. This percentage is 5 percent by state, although it is mandatory. Unfortunately, the same may be true of the register. So, please, let's do some work. And you lawyers, think about how to improve this standard. We need to be sure that the court’s decision is true but not another corrupt rule. Let's not rush. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u99	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u100	Yury Karmazin Party of Fatherland Defenders of Our People's Self-Defense. Dear National Deputies! Dear Adam Ivanovich, reverend! I'm addressing you, I thank you very much both Stretovich and Stetsky for taking the courage to see how we can stop the raid today, how we can stop the corruption today, as we can stop it today. That they have pointed out that the Law on Access to Judgments is not being implemented at all, we have made it with you, but it is not being implemented. And so our committee made a decision to recommend to the Supreme Council and took the responsibility of redrafting the law. Now, to make it clear that the Criminal Procedure Code is being amended, the Law on Access to Procedural Decisions. Where? Unless there's a court decision in electronics in two days, it's not being executed. This does not allow it to be falsified; it does not allow it to do what was done in Odessa when decisions were made, then the land was registered by the sanatoriums. Then it turned out that such decisions had never been made. So I urge all factions to vote for the first reading. We've been looking at it very hard, and it's been a long time.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u101	Thank you. Valerius Pisarenko. Faction BUT one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u102	Dear colleagues! There really is such a decision. But, of course, I would like to advise my colleagues that we work on the second reading, and hopefully this will be possible in this particular bill. Because this system, if it works, has a lot of components. And, of course, can't it depend on the taking of effect in a court decision as to whether it will be included in the Single State Register or not? In addition, it is important to determine who will be responsible for entering the Single State Register. Who, by the way, will be responsible for not appearing there. Let us not forget that even we witnessed last year when decisions were made that did not exist on such important matters as the application of an imperative mandate in the Kiev City Council. We remember going to City Council deputies with decisions that were not in existence in nature. Therefore, the relevance of this issue allows us to vote on the basis of this bill, but this is just the beginning of this work and we would very much like to have the usual opportunity in this bill to solve all the problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u103	Volodymyr Stretović, a replica, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u104	I share the concerns of colleagues regarding the imperfections of the bill. But by noting the point, I want to say that today's procedural legislation gives every opportunity to go to the judges in the making of a decision or a verdict with a prepared document. And since they are now, at computerized times, on the computer, there is no complication to be sent by his head of court in the final edition of two days under a special code to a single registry. We talked about it on the committee, it can be done. And with regard to the corruption that Adam Ivanovich was talking about, well, I didn't know that the Communists were so perfect and knew where to propose a corrupt scheme again. So I suggest you take the basis and work on the work regime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u105	Please don't call me Adam Martinyuk. Please don't call me Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u106	Vladimir Mikolaiovich, as a man who leads one of the “God’s” parties, would not recommend attacking his fellowman, and even more so. You understand very well that when the Communists were in power, the kind of corruption that took over the entire state today. And no one was dreaming. So “don’t roll out.” you understood that. So what I'm saying is, it's a very good idea, it needs to be supported. Make it better and we'll be happy to vote for it. Let's go to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u107	Dear colleagues! May I have your attention, please? The draft law has been completed. [[Registration number 3214]] The committee recommends that it be accepted as a basis. I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee based on the draft Act amending certain legislative acts, Registration No. 3214, please vote. [[on the obligation to bring court decisions to the Single State Register]] [[17:34:40]] For 227 Decision taken. We continue to work, fellow believers, for fifteen minutes before the conclusion of the debate, here we have four bills. I am introducing draft Law on Bread Care in Ukraine, Registration No. 3487. The rapporteur is Ukrainian national deputy Trinduk Yuri Grigorovich. The focal point is the head of the Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations, Sidelnik Ivan Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u108	Dear colleagues, one of the main foods in Ukraine is bread. The breadth industry is one of the largest in Ukraine. Bread and bread - making products are produced and realized in every inhabited area of the nation. On average, about 10,000 tons of bread is produced in Ukraine per day, and about 50,000 workers are employed in businesses. At the same time, there is no special law to regulate relations in the field today, and such a law is essential. The bill that I'm presenting is aimed at regulating relationships that occur in the production, processing, packaging, transportation, storage and implementation of the horticultural products. This project defines the concept of social bread as well as the relationship of enterprises with the state. The concept of certification of the production of bread and bread - making products is introduced and clarified, and it should be, as a large number of bread and bread - making products are produced without quality control and sanitation. In addition, the project will help to track down all bread and bread products, a significant reduction in shadow production and a corresponding increase in income from all levels. I particularly want to say that this bill does not need any additional funds from the budget, because it is just a regulatory document. Once again, this law is essential for the state, especially in times of crisis. So please accept it in the first reading and make your comments on the second reading. Bread is everyone's head. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u109	Ivan Ivanovich Sidelnik, head of the Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations. Please, about the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u110	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The reporter reasoned on the need to adopt a bread bill in Ukraine. The purpose of the bill is to create a favourable legal and organizational framework for the normal development of the farming industry, the industry. The bill sets out the basic principles of public policy regarding the support of bread producers, the requirements for quality and safety of bread and bread products. On February 17, this year, a bill on farming in Ukraine, introduced by national deputy Yuri Trindjuk, was discussed at a meeting of the Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations. The committee supported the bill and recommended that the Supreme Council consider it in the first reading and accept it as a basis. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u111	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for the bill. A recording of the performance is being made. Please put the names of the people's deputies on the board. Vladimir Yavorowski, faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u112	Vladimir Yavorowski, "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko", city of Kirovograd. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! We support this bill, it's supported by an agrarian committee, it's okay. But definitely against it, you just have to change it's normal to produce a grammatically literate name. Draft Law on Bread Care in Ukraine. The very moment of bread is the moment when bread is planted in the oven and baked. It's a baker's business, or a breadwinner's business. Otherwise it's just illiterate. I don't mean to offend any of the authors, but that's just the notion, once again, it's not. I repeat, and I ask you to put this in our transcript: the breadwinner thing, and then everything will be in place.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u113	People's Dept. Chertkov faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u114	Please, Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u115	Dear colleagues, I speak more to those who listen to us. Please understand. Bread is sacred. Bread — no doubt — is what brings us life. But those of you who have read this law, if you have read it, look what it says. Two pages are given terms that are bread, that is soda, that is water, that is packaging. Without it, what can't be baked? Sure. The authors say that he is not carrying any load and that it is only for the good of the State. So, be a bench, look at the whole law written for three articles: articles 12, 13 and the Final Provisions. Article 12 says: State support. State support is the budgetary financing of development costs and the provision of spare capacity for bread baking, the provision and compensation of short-term and long-term credit resources. The state has to give. It's created by a state of scientific research. Now for the 13th article, which discusses prices. Farmers’ prices set them up to make a profit. What's the profit? What's the limit? We don't know. It is said that anyone who wants to help people, local authorities, should order so - called social bread. Here, though, social bread can be ordered at a cost of not less than 15 percent. If the bread is not less than 15 percent, you can understand, according to the law that they will set the price for bread. Not the Cabinet of Ministers, but every manufacturer will set the price. You don't want to. Don't take it. But you have to eat. And the last. If we adopt this law, there will be no breadth left in a year except for the magnets.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u116	Let me finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u117	certified and everything will be destroyed. By no means can a noble law under a good name be adopted; it is harmful.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u118	It's better to write "if you're ready" then or as it is.? Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u119	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Ladies and gentlemen, we've come to the point where we're about to have pasta or something like that, we're going to adopt laws. But I'm reading, and it's my trouble that I'm reading all the same bills. I see that after the adoption of this law, if adopted, there will be a sharp increase in bread throughout Ukraine. Is that what we want? I'm sure that's not what any national MP in this room wants, no matter what the elevators or whatever else they have, they obviously don't want to vote. I agree that the level of profitability is not less than 15 percent, as foreseen in article 13, is too much. And that's why the law was passed and the law was being prepared. Tell me another country where 15 percent of the profits are in the law? But nowhere is such a country likely to be. Or, look at article 14: “Creating a self - regulating organization. Organizations are designed for self-regulation, based on membership and uniting of subjects.” What is this about the Law on Bread? Nothing. Or look here: A violation, a liability is established in the same law: 100 percent of the value of produce. However, the Transitional Regulations state that you can still work for a year without obtaining a certificate and entering the relevant register. And the safety of production is what is produced. So, dear friends, I will not vote in favour of this law, because it is clearly aimed only at supporting one area, and I want to support the entire Ukrainian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u120	Please, the Party of the Regions, did not speak. Akimov, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u121	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, with all the beautiful labels and names of this law, it is, in fact, both for breadcakes and for the final consumer, it will be very dangerous. First, when a special appraisal is introduced of enterprises that produce bread, it means an increase in the regulatory pressure that we all fight against. Secondly, this law violates several of the rules relating to our WTO obligations, in particular the harmonization of our legislation in terms of compulsory or, on the contrary, non-binding voluntary certification. I think we have already had enough examples of violations of our WTO obligations to add another one to them. The user will not win, the manufacturer will lose and we will violate WTO standards. I propose not to vote in favour of this law. Sergei Tereshuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u122	Sergei Tereshuk, “Block of Lithuania”, Cherkaščina. Dear Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, members of the Lithuanian bloc share the concern that today has been created in the market for the provision of arable products. The Ukrainian’s main product, which has always been celebrated, is far from as it should be. Agree that the quality of the cartilage today is far from in keeping with both standards and requirements. What caused all this to happen? It is precisely because the state is involved in baking bread. Be assured, then, that the State would intervene less and that the quality of the bread would be sufficient and that the bread would be sufficient on our benches. What kind of support can we talk about from the state if bread is flour, water, salt, yeast. Count the value of bread today and count the ingredients that are added to the bread. The bread was always profitable. Another matter is that there are certain types of bread that should be cheap. Because we can't make an address grant today. This can therefore be regulated by the Law on Social Bread. Therefore, even if we accept it in the first reading, the bill needs to be carefully worked out before the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u123	Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. Who's up there? Huh? Trinduk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u124	Well, I want to say that before this law was passed in the hall, I held some consultations, including with representatives of the Communist Party, on the profitability of social bread. It was agreed that on second reading it would be omitted to up to five per cent. That's what I'm talking about. Therefore, the issue of fifteen per cent profitability is simply irrelevant.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u125	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Law on Bread Care in Ukraine, registration number 3487. [[17:48:51]] For 190 The decision is not taken. I am betting on a second motion to re-read the draft Law on Bread Care in Ukraine, registration number 3487. [[17:49:18]] For 196 The decision is not taken, the bill is rejected. The draft Law on Amendments to the Ukraine Act on Cinematography, Registration No. 2595, Reporter, National Deputy of Ukraine, Sufrich Nestor Ivanovicz, co-rapporteur, Head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, Yavorovsky Vladimir Aleksandrovitch, is being announced. [[on State support for the production of national films]]
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u126	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, I think everyone will agree that unfortunately we can't see in the desired amount of domestic production today. And today, when we see what progress our neighbours in the Russian Federation have made. When we see the rapid development of the country’s film industry in Europe’s leading countries, the question arises: What did they do that gave them such a boost? After studying this question, you came to the simplest point: you were just for a certain period of time freed from taxation a responsible activity that gave the right incentive to invest in the domestic field of film production and other film production. Today we're proposing a law, changes to the law, which first determine what a national film is. It is said that the film group should include at least 70 percent of the participants, namely Ukrainians. At the same time, 30 percent may be citizens of foreign nations in order to take advantage of the experience. There's no denying the film's production and production in any language, but a Ukrainian version has to be required. And, of course, 50 percent of the resources have to be spent in Ukraine. I think that if we agree today to give tax benefits to our native filmmakers, we will be able to get a positive result in the near future. Today, it is proposed to relieve the tax on the added cost of implementing film products for cinematography subjects and the circulation of the cost of implementation.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u127	Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u128	And the flow of funds to realize the rights to use film products. Free any type of work related to the production of the like product from the value added tax. Also exempt from income tax the portion of income that will be directed towards the acquisition of capital deposits, further capital expenditure, also to the expansion of the corresponding own production base. It is also suggested that all customs congregations should be freed from anything related to the production of appropriate film products and the acquisition of equipment, since the state of equipment today raises many questions. I'm convinced that if we take this first step today, we can expect a qualitative improvement in our film production and this will certainly lead to a quantitative definition of what we're going to get -- our Ukrainian film. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u129	I'm asking you to sign up for the performances, your honors.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u130	Dear Ukrainian Parliamentarians! We have a state with you that fits into the history of the world film, because we have Alexander Long with you, we have Paradjanov with you, we have many wonderful directors today, let's say the same Ilyan. In fact, this week, we have the impression that there is no movie in Ukraine, but this week, Parliament held a movie day. Because yesterday you and I ratified a convention to put a Ukrainian cinematographer in the world system, and today we're looking at another bill, which, frankly, is his idea of just making it easier. You know, in the first version of the budget that was submitted in September, 150 million bracelets were allocated to Ukrainian cinemas and we wiped our hands, we thought, well, finally, in the Ukrainian movie, we're going to have the money, because we've got the talent, if you want, I'm going to say too much, we've got the filmmakers and we've got the movie directors and we've got them to date. And we have this amazing style in Ukrainian cinema that can shock literally the entire world cinema. But in the face of the crisis, the skin narrowed down to 50 million, I say again, up to 5 million, I apologize, gentlemen, I said five million for which I could take off a short shot in a black and white expression. The bill that Schuffritch proposed, the committee that I lead, I just couldn't refuse, because it really does have an effort to help our cinematographer. It can be accepted in the first reading, but in no case can it be accepted immediately, there are many questions. You know, we don't have the right in the film law to cut taxes, it's only because of the income tax laws, the value added tax. By the way, it's proposed to withdraw the land tax, it's decided only in a bilateral case when it's signed. I mean, the idea, I say again, is beautiful and no one's gonna hold it up and just throw it away.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u131	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u132	Throw this idea right-to-right into the trash. I'm asking her to support and allow the committee at the Supreme Council to make, after all, very clear constructive. There's going to be 90 million budget cuts, and we need to think about that, and I think we're going to prepare a second reading and we can pick it up. Film lovers, I'm asking you to vote, I'm just wondering who doesn't vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u133	Dear colleagues! Please write it down for discussion. There's a recording procedure going on. Please put on board the name of the national MPs who have been recorded for discussion. Alexander Pecklusenko is a faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u134	I support my colleague Yavorivsky that people who don't like movies are not in this room. What's more, many well-deserved movie performers. As a country needs a Ukrainian cinematographic product, it is clear. But not fighters, not horrors — movies that are positive; movies that promote a healthy lifestyle, family, religion and we are obliged to write this law, respected by Nestor Ivanovich, so that a new series of Ukrainian versions of Hollywood can not appear in the worst sense. And a new series of cultures, a new series of things that will help young people to identify themselves in life. I am sure that we will finalize this law, and we will limit money not to be scattered, but to the main purpose of promoting Ukraine as a European Power, to promoting a healthy way of life.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u135	National Deputy Kurpil, Timoshenko Street.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u136	Stepan Kupil, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. Undoubtedly, this project needs to be supported in the first reading. Undoubtedly, Ukrainian cinema, like the Ukrainian press, needs state support and support from the Supreme Council. But the point of the Ukrainian film is not about who's going to make it, because we know foreign authors, especially the director of Hoffman, who makes beautiful movies and which are Polish, but these films are Ukrainian by spirit. So the language of the film, the spirit of the film, is no doubt the defining things that should be in this bill. And we're reading here that the film has a Ukrainian version. But no, it has to be a Ukrainian-language film that can have a Russian-speaking version, a foreign-language version, and here we have to pay attention to national priorities. The Ukrainian language, first of all, should be a sign of the Ukrainian film and the Ukrainian spirit should be in the Ukrainian film. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u137	Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u138	Yuri Karmazin Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. Dear National Deputies! I've also dreamed of making a movie on my own screen for several years now, but I can't do that. And I'd like the idea that we all like the movie, starting with little kids, not to get confused with the very bad performance of this idea, the very bad embodiment. Because this is one and a half pages of text, and the science-expert management is 14 pages by 14 pages, if that's what you're surprised about, I'm not. Why doesn't that surprise me? Because we are saying with one stroke that film subjects are exempt from the rent for land. So the film studio that rents today gives one program, the other one, the third one, all the channels, everything gets rid of the land pay, all of it. Although the laws are valid, they say that this cannot be done. You want me to tell you specifically, I'll tell you what laws. The Land Rent Act, the Land Pay Act. In the end, you and I have decided that for five years we do not give benefits to anyone. Finally, there is the Tax Scheme Act, where there are written changes and additions to tax laws regarding the granting of benefits and amended later than six months before the beginning of the new fiscal year. What is the momentary settlement of the activities of cinematography subjects, the title of article 23.3. If you'll excuse me, if a third-grader wrote this to you, you'll make him notice that there's no law written there. It's not the law. What customs regulation? If everything is simply written here without customs fees and congregations related to import and export, it is possible to bring everything here completely and for several states. That is why, despite the fact that I and my children love movies, I never support them.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u139	Martinuk Adam Ivanovich, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u140	Dear colleagues, I am very pleased that today we have finally mentioned the classic of Marxism Leninism of his quote by Vladimir Illich Lenin that film is the most massive way of art, art. Dear colleagues, it's a good law, but once again, it's not entirely thought out. Why should we write a movie that we think is Ukrainian? This is where the previous colleagues were speaking, there's a lot of confusion. Please tell me if the film is produced in Ukrainian or not. It's not Ukrainian! But he also gives taxes and everything else in Ukraine at the Ukrainian studio. So what I'm going to do is I'm going to do a very simple thing: to take the first part, where it's not fully explained, what is a Ukrainian film, to write that all the movies that are produced in Ukraine are considered Ukrainian, because we have the right to own those films that are produced in our studios, all the benefits, the preferences that are written in this law. If the authors, if the authors agree, Nestor Ivanovich, if you agree to write that films produced in Ukrainian studios have such benefits, you can accept them now even in general. Let's do this.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u141	Yes, the people's MP, Mokchan.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u142	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I would also like to remind you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, that we were here with you five years ago with Parliamentary hearings devoted solely to the problems of the Ukrainian cinematographer. You remember that there was then a decree that was voted where the whole blocks were worked out, what was to be done, all the things that Nestor Ivanovich listed today, I owe him, but unfortunately, then I don't know why he didn't support those bills that were put into the session hall to make a Ukrainian cinematographer. The first was to be a film foundation, so that not only would the state be able to allocate money and not only to the benefits, but also a certain system of changes that were necessary for the Ukrainian cinematographer so that he would not be dead. You know there's barely a pulse in it. So I propose to support Nester Ivanovich in his first reading and to work deeply on the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u143	Give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u144	There are proposals for the committee. Then return to those parliamentary hearings and the Supreme Council's ruling, which was voted five years ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u145	Thank you. Nestera Schuffrich's replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u146	Thank you. Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, I am grateful for this lively discussion about this law. I want to point out that, really, I think, today is the point of getting rid of the land rent of our native cinemas. You know what the venues are today, Longzhenko, but unfortunately we haven't seen Longzhenko movies in a long time, and the rent of the land is forced to pay them. I think today and I absolutely support that we really need to be differentiated in terms of what we're going to shoot today, but we have a great story from the Rurikovics, so I apologize, to this day, we have something to talk about. We have a beautiful story. We have a lot of writers that we can screen today. And I think we should take the first step today. Notice, they are certainly quite right, but let us determine whether we want to go or whether we want to take a taxi alone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u147	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u148	I urge you to support this law in the first reading, and in the same way we will move forward, not draw checkers in a taxi. We should take a cab. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m1.u149	Dear colleagues, the bill to amend the Ukrainian Film Act has been completed. The committee's proposal is to take it as a basis. It's the last bill we're considering today. Dear colleagues, let's support the committee's decision and finish our work day in good harmony. I'm voting on a proposal by the adoption committee based on the draft law. [[Registration number 2595]] Please vote. [[18:06:59]] For 381 Decision taken. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow we'll continue our plenary work at 10 a.m. schedule for Friday.
