ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-03-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I have a great request to my distinguished fellow members of the national MPs, to the leaders of the factions. Invite your colleagues to sit in the workplace. I'm one of those people who makes arrangements. If we make a deal, I do the right thing. So please, please, take your seats. Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Dear colleagues, are you ready to register? Come on, get ready to register. Dear colleagues, please register. [[Registration of Ukrainian National Deputies]] [[10:26:18]] 445 national deputies registered in the session hall. Dear colleagues, the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is now open. In accordance with part eight of article 19 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the initiative of 152 national deputies of Ukraine was registered in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which relates to the requirements of part two of article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine regarding the holding of an extraordinary plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In time, 150 national deputies took the initiative to clarify the order of the day. In view of the fact that this proposal was formulated in accordance with the requirements of the Ukrainian Rules, the proposals proposed by the Ukrainian national deputies were considered. The following questions were proposed for consideration at this extraordinary meeting: first, these are personnel issues; secondly, the draft Act amending the Constitution of Ukraine on the limitation of parliamentary immunity," and thirdly, on the suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy. We had a meeting of the Conciliation Council of Ukraine. The Conciliation Board of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and at the invitation of the Party of the Regions are invited to consider only one question today, namely, the permanent termination of the powers of the National Deputy of the Ukraine of Lozinski. We don't need to include that in the agenda. I'm announcing this issue. Is there no warning from others? Just sign up for one minute, please. Please sign up in one minute. Please sign up one minute at a time. Dinner, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-03-m0.u2	Please give Chechchev the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-03-m0.u3	Mikhailo Chechetov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-03-m0.u4	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! Well, I don't get it! A week ago, we have two proposals from the BUT faction. A week ago, there was an official statement by the BUT faction suggesting that the President should be asked to assign the name Hero Ukraine to the People's Deputies of BUT for the removal of the deceased criminal Olejnik. Yesterday, Yulia Vladimirovna made a completely different, contrary statement that she proposed to remove the inviolability, remove from the party, deprive the party of its mandate and bring it to trial. Then you'll understand and tell me if you made a mistake for the first time, or if you had pure water piranhas, populism, bulwarks on the populism's ears, then you'll apologize to the people. It's not clear what to do: represent him to Hera or bring him to trial. Explain your position, please! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-03-m0.u5	Katerina Vaschuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-03-m0.u6	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Today, I would like to address each of you as a member of the House of Jehovah’s Witnesses with experience, as a person who has worked hard in the Supreme Council remembers many convocations. Dear colleagues, I am increasingly convinced that the election system that exists today will put Ukraine in a deadlock. There are no deputies who today can openly say their opinion against the leader’s thinking. It is very important that we think more about the state, about Ukraine, about our conduct. Right, we need, the statement is, we will support this proposal in the Lausinian language, but every national MP today has to think, not about his own interests, but about the interests of the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-03-m0.u7	People's Deputy Kamchatny, faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-03-m0.u8	Kamchatny, Yulia Timoshenko, Slobožanšina. Please pass the word to Ivan Grigorovitch Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-03-m0.u9	Ivan Kirilenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-03-m0.u10	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear voters! I'm paying attention to everyone -- the public, our TV sets, our audiences, our voters, and the entire hall. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, an unprecedented fact! Twice the faction turns by dialing. Having collected 150 signatures and more about the holding of an additional sitting, he suggests an order of the day, and the Party of the Regions blocks this proposal cynically, boldly. How can that be?Oh, my God! [[B in m in s a l in]] The Party of Regions is running the Supreme Council! How can that be? Volodymyr Mikhailovich, we're still making concessions today, we're considering the issue not in the order we're proposing, but we're asking colleagues to stop blocking the rostrum, let's work. Immediately after considering Lozinski, we immediately ask the question of cancelling the parliamentary integrity and changing the Constitution. If a party of regions blocks that question. They're afraid of undoing the intrusiveness.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-03-m0.u11	The national deputy of Jazyniński is referring the right to speak to Viyacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-03-m0.u12	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “For Ukraine! ” Honorable Colleagues and Honorable Voters! I am surprised by the decision of the Conciliation Council. And why do we only take off one MP's touch and forget that we have to take off -- and this is a pre-election commitment to virtually everyone sitting in this room -- is a parliamentary immunity from all MPs. Why we forget that this is a question that started a year ago, for the first time voted, and now we just need 226 votes to go through the second stage of the procedure of lifting parliamentary immunity. And already in September, especially the presidential candidates, there will be 15 people here, calling on their deputies to give 300 votes in order for the MP's immunity to be lifted at all. Why aren't we putting this on the agenda right now? Why do the deputies of all factions think primarily of their own skin rather than of what they promised to people? This approach does not honor the Supreme Council, it is a partial approach, and by this approach we do not decide anything. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-03-m0.u13	People’s MP Mankovsky hands over the right to speak to Jaroslav Sukhoma.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-03-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, in this matter that we are about to consider, there can be no excess of emotion, no, no, no, no, no, no, God forbid, no, no, no. The fact that our colleague, Ukraine’s national deputy, wrote a statement of authority, he himself wrote an application for the establishment of powers, says for himself. But the main thing for our faction is that you may have misunderstood us. There must be parliamentary, public oversight, State control to ensure that the investigation is impartial, that the investigation is objective, and all those whom the court, the court itself, rather than newspaper articles recognized by the court as a criminal have been punished justly. This is the only way that the highest legislative body can act, the Supreme Council. And now, with regard to this fuss around the inviolability. In 2002, the Constitutional Court acknowledged that the inviolability of the Ukrainian national deputy was an integral part of the exercise of its constitutional parliamentary powers, once and for all. The other one. I am.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-03-m0.u15	All right, time's up. Dear colleagues, why did we go into such an order of the day? I refer to my colleague, Viacheslav Kirilenko. Please guarantee order. I won't hold a meeting because of a fight in the Supreme Council. So was I. You listen to what I'm saying! Listen to what I'm saying! I was told that if we were to consider other issues, there would be a fight in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'm not taking part in any fights. I urge only one person to think and to have a conscience and to think about what we are doing. Once again, I've scheduled a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Each member should be aware of his or her responsibility. Take your seats, then we'll consider all the issues that need to be considered. The question of the permanent suspension of the authority of the Ukrainian national deputy Lausinski W.O. Registration number 4759. The rapporteur is Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-03-m0.u16	Dear colleagues! Dear colleague Lazko! Dear colleague Lazko! The question is, including your faction colleague, let's hear it. On 1 July this year, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, Medvedzko, addressed a letter to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Vladimir Mikhajlovich Litvin, requesting pursuant to article 80 of the Constitution, and article 27 of the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy, and article 218 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, requesting the consent of the Supreme Council to bring criminal responsibility, detention and detention under the custody of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Our second colleague, Lozinski, made a statement to the Supreme Council requesting that he withdraw his parliamentary powers. In view of the fact that the statement was made to the committee only this morning, I was able to prepare an order under my signature number 4759, which reflects our actions under Ukrainian law, in accordance with the Constitution and according to the Rules of Work of the Supreme Council, this order is in your hands. [[Article 80]] I ask for a decision by the Supreme Council to vote on this order.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-03-m0.u17	Please sign up for the questions. How many minutes do we take to ask? Five Minutes Enough? Please. Andrew Shkull, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-03-m0.u18	I'd just like to ask. It's good to hear from the committee head. But I thought, in principle, that I would hear and ask questions from the Attorney General’s Office, because I think that would be objective. As I understand it, the Head of the Regulatory Committee will report on the statement made by the National MP himself regarding the removal of his parliamentary immunity. But I think it's perfectly logical to listen to the Attorney General's representative, why he's not here, and why, in principle, I don't have the right to ask him a question as a national deputy to explain what happened there from the position of the Attorney General's Office.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-03-m0.u19	In view of the fact that we are considering a statement by the deputy on the composition of his parliamentary powers, there should be no presence of the Attorney-General here. With regard to the Attorney-General's point of view, it is expressed in the data that he has sent to the Supreme Council, and every MP has the opportunity to consult the submission. This reflects the perspective of the investigation into the events that took place during this period.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-03-m0.u20	Derevljani National Deputy, faction of the Timoshenko Yulia Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-03-m0.u21	It's a can.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-03-m0.u22	Please submit your right to the question to Oleg Laszko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-03-m0.u23	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I address you as Head of the Supreme Council. Please tell me and the whole country to hear where the Rules say that the Conciliation Council should determine the order of the day. There are the initiators of the sitting, there is the agenda, I make the proposal, and immediately after consideration of the matter, I ask you to put it to the vote. May the Supreme Council vote in favour of the agenda, not some unanimous council will determine the agenda for us. So maybe we'll all break up here with Lozinski, and you three sit there, set the agenda together with the Party of Regions. We stand for the removal of parliamentary immunity not only from Lozinski but from all deputies. At the end of this 80th infamous article of the Constitution, and I don't want a party of regions to do that, and it's blocking the rostrum, threatening. And you say they will fight, let them fight, let all the earth see who is for what.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-03-m0.u24	Can I answer that question? I'd rather not tell my respectable colleague who I'm working with. I'm working with the Supreme Council of Ukraine, you as a national MP, and you have to admit that what's happening in the Supreme Council is that the students are very nice -- the Party of Regions has learned in you how to block everything that can be blocked. So calm down and work. [[Applause]] National Deputy Stishenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-03-m0.u25	Your Honor, I have a very short question for you. You started to report and perform the function that the Attorney General was to perform. In fact, we are considering the statement made by the national deputy of Lozinski. In this regard, a committee meeting has taken place and a request has been made to present the position of the regulatory committee itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-03-m0.u26	I was obliged to report that I was obliged to report to the Chief of the Regulatory Committee on the statements made to the Committee. The first statement under the terminovo line was sent to us — the Attorney-General. And a second statement directly from the Lozinski MP. Given that there was no time to consider the matter, in my statement, I said that the Committee had not been able to consider the draft decision because of the temporary factor, and I signed it under my signature, it was in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution and the Rules that we had approved with you. And I bring this ruling to a general discussion on behalf of the Conciliation Council and the Bureau. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-03-m0.u27	National deputy of Shamanov, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-03-m0.u28	I'd like to give the word to Pudov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-03-m0.u29	Pudavu, please pass the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-03-m0.u30	I have a question like that, even if it's the Attorney General's report. Everyone here is talking about a full investigation of the case. And I don't even see the elements of completeness there. I see the involvement of this case, the pressure of the President first of all who piranhas and appoints the guilty. Tell me, do you know, your committee, that by a court order, the prosecutor, and the chief of police were detained for identification? It's a mess! What can be the question of a comprehensive consideration of the whole matter? And you're reporting: you didn't gather, you didn't consider. We also have one committee where the head alone is signing the decision alone. And do not take such courage, but deal with the prosecution, her lawfulness. Answer the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-03-m0.u31	My dear colleague, I would not be so emotional and I am particularly emotional that I would not inflame the situation in the hall or read out the application of the Attorney-General's Office. You have the right to know him, there are answers to all your questions. And if you read it carefully, you may have a little bit of emotion. As far as my rights are concerned, I enjoy the exclusive rights granted to me by the Rules, which you have voted for, including. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-03-m0.u32	Yes. Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich, sit down, please. Dear colleagues, let me give you some information. The point is, yesterday, the Attorney General's office came to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. If we are to consider this issue for the Attorney General's Office, we should go in this way for five days to give a national MP the charge of writing an explanation. Then, 20 days later, the committee, within 20 days, should prepare the matter, then bring it up for consideration. This is a month to consider the matter. Together, a statement came from the Ukrainian People's Deputy to this effect, one moment now, I will read this content: “For an objective investigation into a criminal case brought against me by the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, I ask that my mandate be terminated as a national deputy of Ukraine in accordance with article 81, paragraph 1, of the Constitution of Ukraine.” So according to the statement we have today, we have every reason to make a decision today so that a proper investigation of the matter takes place. One minute, don't raise your hands, please! Therefore, it is suggested that we take a decision on our application today. You don't have to do this for a month. Today we're making this decision, and the MP is losing all his immunity, and the Attorney General's Office has the opportunity to comply with the rules of the law, that is to say, to bring responsibility, to arrest, to arrest, and so forth. So your point is to make such a decision so that this resonant matter will come to a logical conclusion as soon as possible. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, there's no question about that. What questions? [[B in m in s a l in]] No questions asked. Dear colleagues, no other warnings? I put to the vote the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine “On the permanent suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy of Lozinski”: [[Registration number 4759]] In accordance with article 81, part two, paragraph 1, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides: to suspend the term of office of Ukraine's national deputy, Lausinsky Viktor Alexanderovich, elected in a multi-mandatory national constituency by the constituency constituency constituency, the political bloc of the "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko" in connection with his personal application for parliamentary powers. Please vote. [[10:47:29]] For 415 Decision taken. The factions, please. Region Party - 164, “Timoshenko Yulia Block” – 133, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” – 69, Communists – 27, “Litvina Block” – 20, non-fractional – 2. Dear colleagues, there have been suggestions here for us to continue our meetings and consider issues, including the cessation of parliamentary powers. I suggest we do this now. By fully supporting – and I stress – the proposals that have been made, we are now meeting the leaders of the MP factions to carry out the appropriate ones. What? I want to say again, Ivan Grigorovich, stand by here and make sure there's no resistance. You can see what's going on. So, dear colleagues, I announce, Ivan Grigorovich, I ask you to listen to what we agree on. I'll call it a 30-minute break. The faction leaders are requested to meet in the office of the Chief of Staff of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-03-m0.u33	Dear National Deputies, the Conciliation Board discussed the continuation of our work. In view of the contraversive nature of the proposals, the decision is not agreed upon and taken: to close the extraordinary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Monday, to hold a meeting of the Conciliation Council, and I would like to ask the distinguished national deputies of all of you, I ask you, please, to consider yourself and allow yourself to work properly next week for the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We all work together to push the country into failure. The next meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Monday at 11 p.m. is the Conciliation Council meeting.
