ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine, guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Please prepare for registration. Please turn on the "Council" system. [[10:01:31]] There were 387 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The morning plenary session is open. Today is the birthday of our colleague Kulikov Kiril Borisovich. Let's welcome him, wish him creative strength, success at work. [[Applause]] He's gone, he's in the ship. Information on the summary of the plenary work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from December 15 to 18. We had six plenary sessions, 38 issues were discussed, 15 laws and 5 decrees were passed, 5 bills were adopted, 1 bill and 8 draft regulations were rejected, 14 interim committees were considered, 97 parliamentary requests were announced. Dear colleagues, according to article 25 of the Rules on Tuesday, we have 30 minutes to speak on behalf of authorized factions. Please sign in. Efraemov Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u2	Please pass the word to Anatoly Kirilovich Kinah.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u3	Kinakh Anatoly Kirilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u4	Ladies and gentlemen of the national council, honourable citizens! Two years of government activity led by Prime Minister Timoshenko confirmed that the existence and further development of the state of Ukraine is primarily threatened by internal risks rather than external ones. The truth is that the talented, hardworking Ukrainian people have become hostages of inefficient, unconsolidated, unprofessional authorities. The decline in industrial output in January-November 2009 compared to 2008 was minus 24 percent. This is the worst indicator among the countries of Europe and the SND. The financial result of Ukraine's businesses in January-June 2009 was minus 12 billion dollars against plus 110 billion over the same period in 2008. The entire industry of Ukraine is already in business. Internal investment fell by 43 percent, foreign direct investment decreased by 60 percent over the period. The ability of enterprises to invest in the development of production is the lowest in 10 years. The state and state-guaranteed domestic and external debt in September 2009 amounted to more than 280 billion dollars. Compared to September 2008, it grew 3.5 times. And only services in 2010 will be equal to annual funding for health and education. For the first time in 10 years, real incomes fell, and the purchasing power of Ukrainian citizens declined by 40 percent in a year. At the level of wages in October, Ukraine dropped to the last place in Europe, skipped forward Moldova, Albania, Bulgaria. The reason for this is the shameful opposition of the presidential and governmental vertical authorities. The impressive low professionalism of executive power, its involvement in corruption, its attempts to replace populism and the loud pyar of doppelgangerism and systemic government activity, the mutual insults at the top, the battle behind the portfolios destroy the prospects of the nation's continued economic development, and lead to the loss of international authority. Confirming this is the number of international ratings with the latest seats for our country, the failure to negotiate with the European Union on further integration prospects, the sharp decline in foreign direct investment. At the same time, corruption escalated sharply in the country. According to research by international organizations, Ukraine has one of the world’s first places in terms of corruption, economic crime, and raiding. The shadow sector of the economy is growing significantly, which is already estimated to be up to 60 percent. Legal nihilism, the manipulation of constitutional norms, the violation of the rule of law at all levels of government. There is also an unprecedented increase in fiscal administrative pressure on business subjects. Tax payments in advance amounted to 12 billion dollars, the amount of non-return to VAT is 19 billion dollars, 6 billion dollars in overdue terms. The cost of credit resources is about 30 percent or more, which completely deprives people of access to the real economy and the population. It is very serious that the State is at risk of entering 2010 without an approved state budget, which deprives it of the possibility of effective job planning for both individual enterprises and the Ukrainian economy as a whole. State treasury in the center and in places has stopped practically financing all programs — criminal law. Even programs that are sources of local financial budgets have been cut short. The country suffers from disasters, natural disasters, and there are no funds in the regions even for the maintenance of road utility services. Non-professionalism and cynicism of the current government is what now poses enormous risks to the country. In view of this, we propose to recognize the two - year work of the government of Timoshenko as very unsatisfactory. A group that works and thinks only about political ratings and future elections is no place in power. In order to change ambitions and declarations, there should be a specific systemic and professional work on.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u5	Finish up, Anatoly Kirilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u6	I'm begging you. The ambitions and declarations need to be replaced by concrete systemic and professional work to get the country out of crisis and to ensure the future development of a nation that deserves the talent and work of the Ukrainian people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u7	Sergey Vladislavovich was involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u8	Respectable citizens, respectable colleagues! Let us, on behalf of the faction of the “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko” declare our position this week and on the following days of our work. I would like, first of all, to welcome all the citizens of Ukraine to the upcoming Energy Day celebration. I think what I've been able to do in these extreme circumstances is the government team, what we're going through today is an event that rarely happens in the country, namely: the launch of the Dniestrovsk hydroaccumulation power plant, is evidence that the country is not just rising, and the country, in fact, has a real opportunity to have energy independence. The country is in a state of extreme weather conditions, when they're shutting down entire populated areas with weather conditions, and it's with confidence, unlike many other countries, where it's clear that we're now going to have energy independence, and we're going to be able to enter the only energy network of Europe that will allow, under extraordinary conditions, electricity to flow, so that no region of Ukraine will ever be shut down from electricity. It is today that the discovery of GAES Dniestrowski will take place, and the Prime Minister will be able to really gain the country's energy independence. I would also like to warn you that this week alone we have the opportunity to make real changes to the President's Election Act. Those three key positions, which unfortunately have not been reflected in all previous texts, are: the inability to be included in the voter lists by decisions of only district election committees, which will lead to terrible forgings in the elections, both in foreign and in our constituencies; the real possibilities for falsifications that remain in the entire series of articles of the Electoral Act. And that's why our faction insists that these positions, at least three key positions that do not allow for falsifying elections, be included and considered in the order of the day right now. And we will have a real opportunity, not in words, to claim fair and transparent elections. That's why we're asking all of our colleagues to support this bill, and we're going to be able to conduct these elections honestly. A separate issue is the State Budget 2010 issue. Faction position is next. If we follow the procedure for the return of the budget to the government and the government's further appeal to parliament, with the new budget text, in fact, the country will not be able to start this financial year or even the first quarter with a new budget. That's why our faction's proposal is clear enough. This is to cancel our decision, the decision we have approved to return the draft budget for 2010 and to go back to the procedure set by both the Committee on Budgets and the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council. That is, start looking directly at the 1,300 amendments that virtually all factions have made, all the national deputies to the budget committee. These amendments, including amendments and additions that should be included in the new budget on the existing budget base of the Budget Code, the existing tax base, will allow for a second reading of the draft budget after 1300 amendments have been processed. And this allows, at least in January/month, to approve the 2010 budget, and then after the presidential elections, to make appropriate changes and amendments that will be necessary to regulate the budget positions. In addition, we would like to make a suggestion about a clear definition and setting a date of consideration, if we could finally go back to a question that remains unresolved. It is now almost 35 days, as our faction has brought to Parliament the creation of a temporary special commission on illegal ownership by the leader of the Party of the “Majriya” regions. That is why we insist that, according to the regulatory procedure, this issue be considered without a committee decision, because the committee head is blocking the consideration of this issue, and we do not have the opportunity to bring this matter up and consider it in the session room. That's why it's a matter of honor to Parliament. In order for all presidential candidates in their declarations to be able to claim real things, not steal their property from the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u9	Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u10	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich! Oleg Zarubinsky, Block of Lithuania. Respectable citizens! Dear colleagues! If you look at the topics that are most actively discussed in politics, it may seem that the Ukrainian people are most concerned about constitutional reform, the presidency or the government, election laws or the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. By focusing on the reallocation of powers between the central branches of government, the most important task of the state is to protect human rights. The Ukrainian people have already understood in many ways the futility of expectations for the state, the the thesis has long been common, "unless it interferes". Most citizens realized that the state and the people are two direct people who cross only one place where taxes are collected from people. Many have already learned to exist outside state aid, but this applies to socially active, hardworking citizens who can feed themselves. And what of those who have spent their entire lives in building up this very state:? To what well - deserved rest can they claim to be our pensioners? Every year we fight together for a few tens of dollars to increase our pensions, but we never catch up with inflation. If everyone thinks of pensioners, from where do dozens of legal acts are taken, whose purpose, at least somehow, is to limit what is laid down in the laws. The economy, not the realization of rights, has become the foundation of financial policy. As a result, the most suffering is those who really need State aid, not a lot of government property. And the greater the need for social assistance, the less protection in practice, and it's no wonder that the oldest category of citizens, who retired before 1991, is left entirely out of state. To date, these pensioners, people of a very important age and millions more, but their numbers are steadily decreasing. And it's shrinking not just because of age, but because the state is unable to adequately assess their work, their contribution to the development of Ukrainian economics, education or science. Most of Ukraine's productive capacities, today's human potential, it's not just their work, it's their life that's been invested in the future, in what we're using today. A contribution that is not proportional, for the size of their pensions does not even provide the means to fully provide themselves with the necessities, food, and medicine. The fact is that the basic document in the retirement of these citizens was not as much a basic law on compulsory government pension insurance as the Kabminu decree. In particular, the November 20, 2003, Decision on Measures to Improve the Pension Insurance of Citizens. [[No. 1783]] Despite the pronunciation, this decision substantially changed the average monthly wage of workers employed in the economy of Ukraine from 1958 to 1991. In addition, the average wage for 2002 was underpaid, because it was found to be basic in the calculation of pensions assigned to the validity of the State Pension Insurance Act. As a result, the size of the social benefits to the citizens who retired in 1991 and before, even compared to that of the poor Ukrainian citizens who retired after the year 91, are essentially and artificially under-represented. It is because of its age that this category of Ukrainian citizens cannot expect that once in the future, when the economy of Ukraine is restored, the state will finally pay attention to them and their incomes will be reviewed through the prism of justice. Similarly, because of their age, their health prevents them from defending their rights actively, and unfortunately, they enjoy it. Such contempt for the oldest generation will produce a similar problem for future generations. If someone thinks that because of their age, the problem can not be solved, he is deeply mistaken, for by starting an economy in the oldest generation, one can be sure that it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u11	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u12	Oh. Oh. I'm compiling. Because when we start an economy in the oldest generation, we can be sure that today’s working population will fall into the same trap. For, as Luke’s Gospel wisely says, “The measure you are measuring, it is measured to you.” Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u13	Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u14	Dear voters! The next New Year’s Eve is approaching. More and more, including today, from this rostrum, there is talk of something rising, something getting better, something growing. But those who live in real conditions understand that these are just words. Let me remind myself of some of the numbers that we're going with by 2001. So let's go with the classified raw inside product, figure out how to keep the indicators secret. Who needs this data? Why they should be hidden from the people, there is no explanation to this day. It is projected that the year will end with gross domestic product minus 14 percent. And I'll remind you, fellow honourable Members, that those of you who voted 226 votes a year ago for the 2009 budget, in this budget, were built on the projected figure that in 2009 gross domestic product would increase by 0.4 percent. There have been 11 months of industrial activity, only 76 percent before the previous period. In the construction of 50.3 percent, or half of what they built a year ago, we give up this year. Some successes, and this is due to inertia last year, are in agriculture because they are said to have gone to zero in 11 months. But I would like to remind myself that during the same period last year, we did 18 percent in agriculture. I think, like me, and every one of you who meets with the voters, they ask and ask a logical question. If you're talking about having a record crop in the last two years and giving out heroes for it, please tell me, why is there a sharp increase in the price of bread in a record crop? After all, more harvests are being gathered. A great deal of trouble and debt on the payroll. It would seem that in the year 2000, we had forgotten this calamity forever. If on January 1, $1.1 billion in wages was owed, by November 1, government debt was already 1.7 billion. Although at one of the meetings of the Prime Minister’s Cabinet, she promised that each month the heads of those x - ministers would not fail to pay their wages. The problem of unemployment is approaching. So far, oligarchs are careful not to cut people short. But somewhere in February, in March, hundreds of thousands will be thrown out on the street. In the first half of 2010, there are projected to be 3 to 3.5 million unemployed. The budget for the following year, forecasting in the first month, will be no more than 38 billion in January, but it will only take more than 51 billion, 38, and 51 protected articles. A budget that ends this year, that is, there will be nothing in the extinguisher. Because according to the most optimistic projections, the 2009 budget will not be added to the general budget of at least 40 billion dollars. This includes social degradation and social degradation. Where it's seen that in two months and in general because of the pig's attitude towards medicine, more than half a thousand people are killed. More than three tens died of cold within three days. Not to mention the morals that we've talked about here before, it's paedophilia, it's also a live shot, and I'm sorry for the non-parliamentary expression of Mordo-and-Eggs, which has been used by the highest officials of our state. All these figures and facts once and for all confirm the basic thesis of our candidate to the Presidents of Simonnka, who says we can't live like this. At these meetings, and I recently visited five parts of Volina, voters ask: When will order be given? I answered them, and I can tell everyone who hears me: In the first 100 days when the Communists will be restored to power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u15	Martinenko Mikola Volodymyrovich. Tarasjuk Boris Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u16	Dear colleagues! Today is a special day for representatives of two professions in our country. On December 22, there was a professional festival of professionals without which there was no State, no society, no human being. It is on December 22 that the professional festival of Ukrainian diplomacy, as well as the professional festival of Ukrainian energy, is celebrated. On behalf of the NH-NS faction, I sincerely welcome the representatives of these professions with their professional holiday and wish them further success. Thank you. I would also like to welcome our colleagues who have either passed or were because they will work in the field of diplomacy. First of all, I would like to welcome our colleagues, Oleg Belarus, Leonidas Kojaru, who went through diplomatic service and worked to ensure the national interests of the state and Ukrainian citizens. With regard to our energies, under difficult conditions, representatives of this profession, in times of economic crisis, provide our citizens with light and warmth in the face of natural disasters. I would also like to welcome them with this professional festival, to wish them every success. I would particularly like to point out that the representatives of the fuel-energy complex at the beginning of this year have proven their professionalism by providing the country with gas and even helping other countries. In view of this, the European Union has obviously decided to welcome the professional celebration of the representatives of our energy industry and, by its approval on 18 December, approved the accession of Ukraine to the Energy Co-operation Agreement. This is the first structure of the European Union in which Ukraine will have full membership. Now it's a matter of parliament. The Supreme Council of Ukraine is to ratify the corresponding agreement. I'm sure the MPs will vote for that. But this is just the beginning. We will have much work to do to bring our energy legislation into European standards. This is obviously the question of the next session. And today the last sessional week of 2009 began. It is time to summarize what the current year was for Ukraine and its parliament, which is passed on to the white tiger by the yellow bull. The passing year was called the year of economic crisis, the electoral year, the year of the fall of the bracelets, and so on. But all of this does not convey the very essence of what happened. In my opinion, 2009 for Ukraine is first of all a year of overcoming fear. This fear was carefully planted and cultivated in society. The goal was to overthrow the government and to destroy the economy and the social sphere. We were all afraid of being defaulted, not paying wages and pensions, not paying for gas and much else. Today, a week before the new year, we see there is no default. Despite the difficult economic situation, the salaries of the budget and pensioners are paid on time and in full. We pay for gas on time. At last, the new year will come without gas wars. It was the government and the parliamentary coalition that kept our economy from collapsing, that did everything they could in the context of the presidential race that long ago turned into a fight without rules. So today, democratic forces are consolidating around the only candidate. We are told that what does not kill us makes us stronger. Ukraine has been carrying the burden of crisis with the bull’s persistence throughout 2009. And now the challenge is to create preconditions in 2010 for jumping tigers, for moving Ukraine forward. But this is only possible when the entire Ukrainian political system forgets its differences and unites its efforts. I'm going to stress again, this is going to happen right after the presidential election. We all just don't have a choice. I'm not going anywhere anymore. Ukraine is exhausted by economic crisis and elections. People expect the authorities to finally start working as the only mechanism. It is not only the best gift of politicians to their country, it is their duty. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u17	Dear colleagues! The statement has been completed. From the issues raised during the speeches on our work, it was hoped that this week we would have a draft law to amend the President's Election Act. It's for consideration. So let's take a look. With regard to the repeal of the Ukrainian Supreme Council's Decree on the Return of the Draft State Budget Act 2010 by Mikola Ivanovich, I refer to the Committee on Budgets. Consider this proposal, come on, draw conclusions. The Supreme Council will consider this from the understanding that we have considered all the proposals of the budgetary committee that have come for consideration. And we understand that the Supreme Council, when considering these proposals, adopts the budgetary conclusions of the Supreme Council. With regard to temporary special commissions and commissions of inquiry, on Wednesday the committee will consider all projects related to tax evasion, property, and so forth. And on Thursday, when the committee decides, we'll be discussing these issues in the session room. Without the committee's conclusions, we're not going to put this to a vote. Dear colleagues, please sign in with the procedure for our further work. Kirilenko Viacheslav Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u18	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “For Ukraine!” Dear colleagues, honourable voters, we are of course curious to see teams of different presidential candidates discussing each other here in the hall, truth without any particular hope of any outcome. But we are concerned about one problem that Parliament can and can solve by the end of this year is the budget problem. We want here, at the parliamentary rostrum, from one of the government's officials to see if a revised draft of the State Budget Act 2010 will be submitted, taking into account the points, part of the proposals made by the deputies. We are, of course, more interested in the proposals of the “For Ukraine!” group on financing defence, national security, the humanitarian sphere and a whole range of other programmes that are very important to the country. Whether this ping-pong will continue to be demonstrated by the government and the opposition, shifting this budget ball from one hall to another. I'd like the government's official position to be represented here in the Supreme Council. And I'm going to.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u19	Please, Javorowski Volodymyr Aleksandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u20	Please pass on the word to Cosemiakin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u21	Thank you, Vladimir Alexandrovich. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Alexander Volodymyrovich, I am addressing you personally and I would like to remind you of yesterday's meeting of the Conciliation Council. “11:49 The chairman : I said, 5419 will certainly be considered. [[I mean, you.]] If you move forward, the session room will be the answer. "Kožemjakin: Tuesday? [[questions]] . Head: In the session room, when it is determined on which day it will be.” So I'd like you to be consistent and ask this question this morning, this time. And secondly, I would like to ask you as chairman to address Mr. Ephraim as the leader of the faction of the Party of the Regions, so that he does not bring it up and bring it up for consideration by the committee for tomorrow's issue of the Tsk on the “Migree”, because he does not bring it up and bring it up. Please help us to do so. Thank you. Make sure everything's clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u22	Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u23	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear colleagues, I will save time, but I will repeat one phrase that I spoke at the Conciliation Council yesterday. We've got three full plenary days left this year, and we've got a lot of questions in order today that everyone agrees that they should be considered, which concerns the moratorium on the sale of agricultural land -- the second is the question. The first is to support the agri-industrial complex, and there are still many questions. So I think we should get to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u24	Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u25	May I give the floor to the people's representative of Booth?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u26	Dear Lord Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The ninth year ends, and for the first time in the history of an independent Ukraine, we can enter a new year without the country's budget. Notice the schedule of meetings of the Supreme Council, there are all proposals, there are regulations for the establishment of temporary commissions of inquiry, perhaps the Supreme Council replaces the investigating committee of the Attorney General's Office. But there is no basic financial constitution, the 2010 budget. I am addressing Prime Minister Timoshenko. Enough fooling the people, bring the 2010 budget to the Supreme Council. In this regard, I propose that this week's plenary session should be suspended, that the electorate should work with the constituencies, and that the State Budget for 2010 should be adopted at an extraordinary plenary meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u27	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u28	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! The practice of holding a presidential campaign shows that the debate had to be held, and the refusal to participate in the debate was to mean automatic withdrawal of the candidate. What happened now? Now we hear monologues. Sometimes these monologues go to UT-1 for an hour and a half. Yes, especially I have heard such a speech by a monologue from the Blacks of Mr. President. I've seen hundreds of, hundreds of insurrections there, but nobody can answer that, it's already on the air. Therefore, I believe that now 5419 is to be foreseen and that debates are to be held. We were promised that today’s first issue would be the Law on Investigative Commissions. I don't see anything. Let's answer for the words that are said here in the rostrum. Alexander Volodymyrovich, I want to hear why.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u29	National Deputy Korge, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u30	Please give the word to Javorovsky Volodymyr Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u31	Dear colleagues! Indeed, the final days of this mad year are coming and we would like to focus on the most important things at the finals. Of course, the most important thing is that it literally doesn't wait any more minutes, it's just a clarification and a final edition of the electoral law. Let's go back to him, that's the first. The other one. I have this feeling that most of the people here who are not aware that we are leaving the Ukrainian state during such a complex absolute crisis, which is today and in Ukraine, we are leaving the state without a budget. This is because there are some totally stupid, sometimes fraud, not fraud, but some manipulations around this budget. Well, it's perfectly clear that Parliament needs to consider this budget, to clarify it. That's what every aunt in the village understands today. I just did.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u32	Humenjuk Oleg Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u33	Please give the word Kirilenko Viacheslav Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u34	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “For Ukraine!” Alexander Volodymyrovich, Alexander Volodymyrovich, let me speak to you after all. And that's about the budget theme. It's Tuesday. Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday. We were given an order to cancel the decision of the Supreme Council to return to the draft Ukrainian State Budget Act for 2010. That is to say, it is suggested that all of Parliament's previous work be crossed out and that the budget, which was made four months ago by the government, is irreprehensible. Now, as a national MP, I would like to find out if this is the official position of the government on this issue. Whether we can invite here or the Prime Minister, or the First Deputy Prime Minister, or the Minister of Finance, because we do not have a minister of finance to tell the Ukrainian people clearly from this rostrum: “We will not introduce any budget for approval and we will use the money for another 4 months next year for our own judgment.”
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u35	We exchanged suggestions for further work. Answering the question asked. With regard to the budget position of the Cabinet of Ministers, it was announced yesterday at the Conciliation Council by the authorised representative of the Cabinet of Ministers Minister Peter Mikolayovich Krupko. It is intended to support the draft decision made by the People's Deputy Lazko: repealing the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order, which defines the direction of the 2010 draft budget and the return of its Cabinet of Ministers to Ukraine. This was officially stated on the Conciliation Council, instead of further work, so that we could start this way first. Regarding proposals under electoral law. We've got him in the dayroom this week and he'll be considered. As far as the Law on Investigative Commissions is concerned. We decided that he would be prepared quickly. Yeah, the committee didn't look into it. Table's not ready, no. The table is not ready. And so we can't look at it right now. We can't look without documents. And the proposal of the People's Deputies of Booth Yuri Anatoliyovich to change the calendar of the session, and the following days 23, 24 and 25 to work with the electorate. There is such an offer. This proposal relates to changing the calendar of the session, so only the session room can determine it. I am voting on the proposal of National Deputy But Yuri Anatoliyovich to change the calendar of the session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which is to see the next days – Wednesday, Thursday, Friday – taken to work with the electorate. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:42:35]] For 207 The decision is not supported. The factions, please. Region Party – 168, "Club of Timoshenko" – 1, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" – 10, communists – 26, "Club of Lithuania" – 0, non-fractional – 2. For reasons, please, Oleg Alexandrovich Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u36	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear colleagues, you know, I'm just indignant. Indignant that proposals for non-working in plenary mode are made by people who have never worked in plenary mode. I don't know this man. I've never seen him before. I didn't see him defend any drafts, I don't know him as the author of the legislative initiative. What is it? Everyone here, including on television, is said to have left parliament, failed to give up their parliamentary mandates, and spit on our work. They have no moral right to do so. First, work on your own, and then demand something from someone. Ledari!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u37	Kozemakin Andriy Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u38	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! How can you avoid being approached as a person who manipulates the hall is manipulated by questions? I'm just supporting my colleague Oleg Zarubinsky. No document, no committee consideration, you submit, you just mock the Rules and the Supreme Council under all the cameras that there are. But I ask you to put to the vote the question that you promised to put on the Conciliation Council, to put in place to consider the election law first. If you're not looking at it, you're preparing for forgery, you're personally, and your political power, you're afraid of this law, because it's going to clearly put all the dots. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u39	As for anyone who's afraid of the law, I want to remind them that these are the rules. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm asking you to shut up. [[B in m in s a l in]] Because I have the same right as other deputies when I am approached. And what I'm saying is that these norms were introduced by the faction of Yulia Timoshenko and supported by the faction of the Party of Regions that you want to change today. That's the first one. The other one. That the draft law put into the agenda requires the inclusion in the agenda of the day’s session and that it will be considered this week. We can now determine whether to include it in the agenda of the day session. And I'm voting on the proposal to include the draft Law 5419 in the agenda of the day session. I'd like to make up my mind. [[10:45:35]] For-164 Not included in the agenda of the day session. Do you want to ask us to include us in the agenda of the voting session immediately? I'm betting on voting to put the proposal into the agenda of the day session and consider this bill today. Please take a look today after entering the agenda. I'll bet you a vote, please. [[10:46:12]] For-90 The decision is not taken. I remind you once again that there is a big difference between the schedule of the sitting and the order of the day session. We included it in the meeting schedule for the week. I am now putting to the vote the question of getting into the agenda of the session and today's debate on Tuesday. Don't you get it? [[B in m in s a l in]] Once again, I put the vote, put it into the agenda of the day, and today I consider Law 5419. Please be sure. [[10:46:58]] For 213 The decision is not taken. The draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on support for agri-industrial complex in the context of the global financial crisis is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 5416]] Reported to the head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, Jury Mikola Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u40	Honourable Alexander Volodymyrovich, honourable national deputies, is now being reviewed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a second reading draft of the Ukrainian Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to support an agro-industry complex in the face of a global financial crisis. By a decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on December 17, this year, the bill was adopted on the basis of a committee tasked with reworking it for second reading, taking into account the proposals made by legal entities. In preparation for the second reading, 14 amendments were made by the people’s deputies, most of whom, eight, were counted. The introduced rules on enterprises that have not chosen a special tax-added tax treatment in agriculture and forestry, are on the general system of taxation by value added, and accumulate the cost-added tax on products produced in their own processing plants and direct these costs to support their own production. With a view to avoiding the dissatisfaction of farmers, the word “identification” has been deleted in the final edition. This is explained by the fact that not all the cows in the country have been identified. Implementation of supporting documents for payment of one cow. In addition, the introduction of a single national register of cattle, a register introduced not later than 3 months before the start of the collection and payment of subsidies, and the rules for the collection of subsidies per head of cow and the accumulation of taxes on the added value of the products produced in their own processing plants, has been in effect three months after the implementation of the register. Social control of the agricultural market by the Supervisory Board. At the same time, I would like to point out that, in view of the adoption of the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine since 24 November 2009, the number 29 p.m.-2009, the draft law needs to be supplemented by an appropriate preamble, as well as the renewal of the act of article 17, paragraph 17.1 of the "Agrarian Exchanges" of the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Agriculture of Ukraine" in its current form. [[for the stenogram]] This was accepted by the Chief Legal Authority. Not included in 6 amendments: Carmazin's unaccounted for payment of one head of cattle; Rizuk Sergey Mikolayovich for calculation separately for raw materials; accumulation of processing costs; Knazevich for the exclusion of paragraph.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u41	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u42	An unaccounted amendment by Marouschenko regarding the fact that he did. on the Standard of the Ukrainian Law “On transaction from the donor raw material of external economic relations” extended to the commercial position of 1701. Not included in the amendment to Gorina concerning the introduction of paragraphs 3 and 4 of paragraph 11.21 on the added tax. not earlier than three months after the introduction of the Single State Register of Large Cattle Owners. The Prince of Exclusion, with regard to the repeal of the standard under which the VAT expenses of enterprises are directed to the Special Fund of the State Budget. Also in the final edition, the draft law introduced for our consideration provides for the restoration of the necessary standards for the agri-industrial complex, which have been regulated by Ukrainian law since February 4, 2009, 922. Thank you. There is a proposal to support the bill in second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u43	Thank you, Mikola Volodymyrovich. Let us now consider the amendments made by the Ukrainian people's deputies. Before that, you have a question from the national MP, Sasa. Please, National Deputy Sas, regarding the committee's work.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u44	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. I wanted to clarify one question in the reporter. Was there a committee meeting to consider the matter? And was there a quorum at this meeting of the committee? Since we were informed by the faction, we considered this issue, which was not the case because there was no quorum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u45	Thank you. The committee meeting yesterday was at one o’clock. There was a quorum. The representatives of the BUT faction were. There was a full-scale ministry. The processors were present. And the producers were present. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u46	The committee's decision is. We'll be back in a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u47	Let's move on to the amendments. Mikola Volodymyrovich, that's all. Did you find out the question, Mikola Volodymyrovich? All of it. All right, we've got it. There was a committee. There are suggestions from the national MPs. Correction number. All of it. What's the problem? People's MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u48	Mikolo Volodymyrovich, I was present at the committee meeting yesterday, I am a member of the Agrarian Policy Committee, and I saw five members of the committee present. Explain, please. And there was no vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u49	Mikola Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u50	Oleg Zinovio, you were present a few times yesterday, and you participated actively in the discussion. Corrections were approved or made for heads, pigs, and heads. And you saw that the members of the committee were all present.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u51	Yes, the situation seems to have been clarified. Amendment No. 1 of the Bondarenko People's Deputy. The committee recommends that we consider it. Are there any objections to this amendment? Yes. Please, who's in denial?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u52	Alexander Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u53	Mikolo Volodymyrovich, wait. Who's in denial? Is there no objection? Proposal for all amendments to the vote. There's no objection. Amendment No. 1 of the Bondarenko People's Deputy is subject to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:55:07]] For-144 Correction not supported. Amendment No. 2 of the People's Deputy of Jury and Vasuk. The committee recommends that we consider it. Please, Mikolo Volodymyrovich, your argument as to why this amendment should be taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u54	This amendment right here, Alexandre Volodymyrovich, predicts the norm that we talked about the accumulation of VAT on a special account and then the payment of these costs on one head of the cow. Why? Because today, Alexander Volodymyrovich, I want to pay attention, the BUT faction is blocking the bill that should. Their government was supposed to bring it in and not deprive farmers of VAT payments today. We see that today all peasants are being specially pursued in connection with VAT payments, so today we will have more expensive products. And I think that's not ethical at all, that opposition today stands for the law that is necessary for the government and for the government. But we know it's necessary for the agrarians, we've stood up for this bill and we'll stand up for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u55	Author of the Veschuk Amendment, Katerina Timofievna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u56	Dear colleagues, please take a table and take a closer look at this. It settles all the issues. Until you and I accept a budget in which we do not write down a rule on the creation of a special fund that will be distributed according to our established position, the same system that has been in operation until now. I mean, here with the lawyers, we wrote absolutely legally correctly and correctly how this law is going to work. And I want to look again at those colleagues who have doubts. People, if we don't now vote on this law, after the new year, the village pays all kinds of taxes. What are we doing? We have to vote on this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u57	I'm betting on the vote of Amendment No. 2 of the People's Deputies of Jury and Vasuk. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:58:01]] For 253 Correction supported. Amendment No. 3 of National MP Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich is not recommended by the committee. Please, the microphone of the People's Deputy Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u58	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! In support of my position, I received a letter from the president of the Association of Milk Enterprises of Ukraine, Lydia Carpenco, co-chair of the civil organization Sokolov Mikhail, saying that they are stressing that in such a way, this rule can complicate the situation. That's why. Because we have the idea of a cow, it's also a calf that doesn't give milk yet, and a cow and a calf are all cows. So we don't write that where the cow is. And that's going to be a free interpretation. Half the cows do not have these cow documents in their households, or as we call them, passports. That's why I offered to replace the word for one head of cattle. Or we will have to go back to the old method of distribution that was before. Otherwise, the price rise is irreversible. I'd like to hear the committee's opinion later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u59	Mikola Volodymyrovich, would you mind?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u60	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. It's a great situation. We've talked to you and we've been studying this situation. Today, if we distribute it on your offer for one head of cattle, we're going to dissipate it and practically not, we're not going to be able to achieve this goal that we talked to you about. What I mean. First. We urgently need to halt the catastrophic decline in livestock, which is the first. And restore the dairy herd. And if you look at other amendments, just below that, we offer a completely differentiated approach to financial support for livestock. One head, one head, two heads, increase. And thus, we will be able to halt the destruction of the cattle. And secondly, we're going to be able to walk away from that disgraceful phenomenon that today is that more than 70 percent of the top butter we're importing today from the neighboring country of Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u61	Amendment No. 3 of the Karmazin People’s Deputy is subject to a vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:00:57]] For the 15th. Correction not supported. 4 Amendment of the People's Deputies of Rizuk. The committee does not recommend accounting. Please, Sergei Mikolaiovich's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u62	Dear colleagues, listen carefully. The effectiveness of the VAT return law is not low because the law is imperfect, but because the Cabinet of Ministers has in its time developed an inadequacy of accounting and payment. This has enabled meat-milk enterprises to identify or mix state payments with the cost of production. By lowering the price and hiding the VAT in the price, thus assigning a portion of the VAT. That's why it's proposed to the centralized fund now, the special fund to remove these funds. But for that to happen, I'm introducing this amendment, because if we even adopt the law today and that amendment 2 of the Jury and the Vaschuk, that would mean that until there's a budget, we don't know when it's going to be active. So if we don't accept my amendment, nothing will change how the VAT will be taken from the peasants, and taken away, they're nothing. So I suggest you separate: 10 days for milk, for price, and every month for individual VAT information.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u63	Your argument, please, Mikola Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u64	Sergey Mikolayovich, we discussed this at the committee meeting, and in general this will not work effectively because we cannot control these costs that will be separated from the processors, and they will certainly not go to the dairy producer and to those who hold the cows. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u65	Amendment No. 4 of the People’s Deputies of Rizuk is subject to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:03:01]] For-9 Not supported. Amendment No. 5 of the People's Deputy Knazević. The committee does not recommend that it be taken into account by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The National MP insists on his argument? Don't insist. Amendment No. 5 of the People’s Deputy Knazević is subject to a vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:03:32]] For-7. Correction not supported. Next amendment number 6 of the People's Deputy of Gorina. The committee suggests partial consideration. Please, Mikola Volodymyrovich, your argument, why in part and what exactly.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u66	The proposal of the national deputy of Gorin predicted a single national register of cattle, and it should contain sufficient information and administration of grants. This is practically what we have in existing legislation. And we counted only that paragraph that should be approved by law no later than three months before the start of the collection and payment of the grants. So when we have active legislation, we added, we took partial account of the term, before the start of the billing and the payment of the grants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u67	Is the National MP in agreement with the committee? It's okay. Amendment No. 6 in the Committee’s drafting shall be subject to a vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:04:48]] For 169 No correction supported. Amendment No. 7 of the People’s Deputy of Jury and Vasuk is included in another edition. Please, what's the paper and what's out of the proposal?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u68	This amendment is taken into account in the paper: “This Act is in force before the Supreme Council of Ukraine is adopted in connection with the stabilisation of the financial and economic situation of Ukraine more than with respect to the loss of validity of Chapter 1 of this Act and the drafting of the relevant provisions of the laws of Ukraine, to which the amendments are provided for in Chapter 2 of this Act, but not later than 1 January of the 11th year. So this is taken into account in another version of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u69	Amendment No. 7 in the Committee’s drafting shall be subject to a vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:05:57]] For a hundred and No correction supported. Amendment No. 8 of the People's Deputies of Jury and Vasuk. Please, Mikola Volodymyrovich, an argument regarding the committee's drafting of this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u70	In this amendment. This amendment is also included in another edition. Why? What does that mean? This amendment proposed the removal of the restriction and the application period for the payment of taxes and VAT. This amendment is included. in paragraph 17, paragraph 1, of the first part of article 20 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the provision of a continuation of State price policy is subject to State pricing regulation. So this amendment is included in a different edition.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u71	Amendment No. 8 in the Committee’s drafting shall be subject to a vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:07:13]] For-198 Correction not supported. Amendment No. 9 of the People's Deputies Marouschenko. The committee recommends not to take into account. Is the National MP insisting? Please, it's the people's MP's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u72	Dear colleagues, I insist on accepting this amendment in view of the fact that the amendment provides an opportunity to protect the national producer. The 1701 cargo position touches sugar-cheese, and we have a number of factories working under the donor scheme, processing the sugar. As a result of our ban today, we have given up markets for Belarus, for Kazakhstan, for other countries that quietly load their volumes, convert their sugars, pay their taxes, and we do not have it. So I think we need to protect our markets. If we have productions that do the operations that people get paid to work on, it would be logical for us to support and store our markets in this area. That's why I, my dear colleagues, ask you to support my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u73	Amendment 9, People’s Deputy Marouschenko, is to be voted on. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:08:44]] For-49 No correction supported. 10 Amendments, People's Deputy of Gorina. The committee does not recommend accounting. Is the MP insisting on his amendment? Don't insist. Amendment No. 10 shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:09:14]] For-0 No correction supported. 11th Amendment, People’s Deputies of Sigala, Vaszuk, Jury, Slauti, Smithuha The committee recommends partial consideration. Please, which of the authors of the amendments insists on their arguments? Please, Catherine Timofievna Vaszczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u74	Dear colleagues, this amendment was taken into account by the committee, and along with the Legal Department. It's the right thing to do. It's going to take time for the manufacturer to adapt. Such a small time - 15 days - we predict. So please support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u75	Who else insists on the authors of this amendment? Mikola Volodymyrovich, your point of view, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u76	Yeah, this repair. We already know that exactly a year ago we delayed the introduction of DSTU and allowed another year to work for processing enterprises under technical conditions under this, but today it is time for us to improve the quality of food products, especially meat and sausage products, is necessary after the adoption of this bill, the law to allow for 15 days, and so that all processing enterprises can move on to the release of products under DST. These standards have already been developed and approved.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u77	Amendment No. 11 in the Committee’s drafting shall be subject to a vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:11:22]] For 240 The amendment is supported. The 12th Amendment of the People’s Deputies of the Jury and the Vaschuk. The committee recommends that we consider it. Any objections to the national MPs? There's a denial. No, there is no objection. Please, Catherine Timofievna Vaszczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u78	Respectful colleagues pay attention to this amendment, and it is also very important. It still predicts that we should clearly write out the animal support system in Ukraine and not just be limited to the value added tax, but predict all the other programs at the time of the adoption of the State Budget. So she's clearly writing out everything that we have to do by accepting the State Budget to protect animals, to support them. So this amendment is very important. Please vote for her.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u79	Amendment No. 12 of the National Deputies of Vaszuk and the Jury shall be put to the vote, please be determined. [[11:12:46]] For 323 Correction supported. The 13th Amendment of the People’s Deputies of the Rizuk Committee proposes to be taken into account in another edition. Please, Sergey Mikolayovich Ribuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u80	Ribuk, faction of the Party of the Regions, Zitomirščina. Dear colleagues! In two years, the government reduced the state support for animals by 4.2 times. If even we now adopt the law and return a billion of VAT to peasants without corrupt schemes, but corruption schemes will, because I didn't vote for my amendment, this billion doesn't give anything because it's beyond the critical limit. So I propose this amendment separately, and for each cow a thousand dollars, that is two billion 200 dollars a year to set aside and pay, and for the cow’s action, and for the meat, and for the milk. Therefore, if we do not have meat and milk, we do not have to pay for the cow for the tail. Do you understand? Hence, we should step out of the animal - financing industry from a critical point of view when there will be an incentive to maintain that headship and produce milk and meat, quality production. So I want to see if someone doesn't vote for this amendment now, they want to drink powdered milk from Belarus, from Europe, but not ours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u81	Sergey Mikolayovich, do you support the editorial that the committee proposes?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u82	You can edit it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u83	Alexander Vasilovich, a well - known and timely correction, for he provides for a motivation to increase livestock in our agriculture. That's the first one. And secondly, it partially gives an answer, and what kind of agriculture is the priority for our country? What I mean. This will stimulate the creation of farms and production cooperatives while maintaining large cattle. And this, in large numbers, for the Ministry, has to be a signal in order to work out the progressive, motivated budget support for the agricultural sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u84	Amendment 13, People's Democratic Republic of the Congo, vote, please. [[11:15:20.]] For 206 Correction not supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u85	Alexander Volodymyrovich! Amendment 14. National Deputy Knazević. The committee does not recommend taking it into account. Please, Mikola Volodymyrovich, your argument on this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u86	This amendment of the 13th, it just came out of a previous amendment by the People's Deputy Knazević, who was in the final positions. Since the previous amendment of the People’s Deputy Knyazević is not supported, it is logical and is not supported in the final positions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u87	Amendment No. 14 shall apply to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:16:14]] For the five of us. Correction not supported. We've considered all the amendments. Please, Mikola Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u88	There is a request and a proposal to return to consideration, and a vote on Amendment No. 1 and Amendment No. 13. These are two adjustments that are relevant and necessary. Amendment No. 1 provides for social control over the activity of the agricultural exchange, and it is carried out by the Supervisory Board. And we understand clearly how much we need supervisory advice in the agricultural market today. I think this is an important enough argument and I ask you to put this amendment to the vote again.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u89	Dear colleagues, the committee head's proposal to return to Amendment No. 1 and Amendment No. 13 is put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:17:23]] For 233 We returned to the consideration of these amendments. Amendment number one again, please, this is national MP Bondarenko. Please give the committee an argument as to the need to take this correction into account. Mikola Volodymyrovich, please, your argument.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u90	Amendment No. 1 provides, for the purpose of social control of the agricultural market, for the purpose of carrying out the work of the Supervisory Board. Please support this amendment. The committee counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, the vote is amended as number one. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:18:19]] For 225 No correction supported. Amendment 13, please, 13 amendments now. Your argument for the 13th amendment, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u92	Amendment 13 is the motivation that we talked to you about in order to actually achieve the effectiveness of every bracelet that goes from budget to agriculture. If we don't adjust the 2010 budget and if we don't make the budget a motivation, and they're going to be set aside to patch the holes, we're not going to get the effect, and we're always going to say that the village is dying, it's going to die, and the budget effect is going to be zero. So this amendment predicts, I think it is the beginning of an effective investment by the state in agriculture.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u93	Amendment 13 shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:19:47]] For 248 Correction supported. It is about the second reading vote and the draft Act amending some of Ukraine’s agri-industrial laws to support the global financial crisis. Registration number 5416. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:20:19]] For 369 Decision taken. Mikola Volodymyrovich, ask you a question. In view of the fact that some of the amendments recommended by the committee are not supported, is there a need for the third reading of this project?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u94	No, there isn't. There's no need. I think so.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u95	No rivalry? Didn't the controversy arise in the text after that?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u96	No, it's not. It's okay. There's an offer to accept the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u97	Please, we have representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers authorized to deal with this issue. There's no denying we'd give the word to a government representative? No objections?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u98	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u99	Aloshin Valery Borisovich, Deputy Minister of Finance. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u100	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw attention to one rule that has been voted in the structure of the 2 amendment. It is dangerous enough and can lead to substantial losses in the state budget. This is the last paragraph of this amendment. If you look at a comparative table, the following is true: that the amount of tax added to the agricultural budget of all forms of property that have not chosen a special tax regime for agricultural and forestry activities, as well as the fishing provided for in Article 8.1 of this Law, is on the general system of taxation for the added value, for the milk, livestock, poultry, wool, and milk products and meat products produced in their own processing plants, remains entirely at the disposal of these agricultural enterprises, and is aimed at supporting their own production of animal products. The point is that it is virtually impossible to administer this benefit. This will allow businesses that are only nominally linked to the agricultural sector to benefit from such tax benefits. So we have a proposition. In that part of the bill, we put it on third reading, and we're going to work on it from position to tax committee on the Supreme Council's tax policy. And I can say, unfortunately, that the representatives of the Tax Policy Department at the Supreme Council Committee on Agrarian Policy were not present as they were informed that there was no quorum. That's why we couldn't stand this position when we discussed the document on the committee yesterday at the meeting. I'd like to support that position.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u101	Minister of Agriculture Melnik Yuri Fedorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u102	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! Dear National Deputies! I'm, I'm sorry. I draw attention to the fact that today there is an objective reality in the agricultural sector of the economy, where there are processing plants in the agricultural sector. And this norm for today is the answer to the realities that are in the agricultural sector, so that there is no discrimination in relation to those agricultural enterprises that today have in the structure of processing enterprises and that the norm is prescribed for second reading. I am very grateful to the National Deputies for their support, regulations, and insisting on its inclusion, and I thank them for their support in the second reading. We need to support, as a whole, as a law, that project that has now reported and given it the right to exist in order for it to enter into force.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u103	Dear colleagues, we see that the only point of view of the Cabinet of Ministers has not been presented. I think it's a proposal for a profile adoption committee as a whole. I am voting on the adoption of the whole draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine to support the agri-industrial complex in the context of the global financial crisis. Registration number 5416. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:24:56]] For 374 The law has been passed in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u104	Vasil Mikhailovich, what a motive. Well, you want to thank me for adopting the law? The draft Law amending paragraphs 14, 15 of Section X of the Code of Land Transitions of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on the time limit for sale of land]] Registration number 3425. National deputy of Ukraine, Tkachenko Alexander Mikolayovich, reports.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u105	Dear colleagues, before I make my point and my position on this bill, I would like to say a few words from our neighbor President Lukashenko two weeks ago at the Republican Council. He said this, literally: “The Ukrainian brothers came to us to help us with the dairy products, and we helped. We were approached by Ukrainian brothers to help with the meat, and we helped. We were approached by Ukrainian brothers to help with the sugar, and we helped. And if they ask us today or tomorrow to help the salami, we and the salam will help." Morale. This is the Ukraine we represent with you. Ukraine, which has 42 million slags, and Belarus has 9.6 million. Ukrainian lands and Belarusian lands are a huge difference. This is Ukraine, which produced produce before 1991 and fed nearly 250 million people. This is Ukraine, which has 0.4 percent of the land on the planet, 0.8 percent of the population, and almost 28 percent of the land on the planet. This is Ukraine, which has 4.8 percent of the planet's reserves. And this Ukraine is going around the world today. To us today, Belarus has become a European state. Dear colleagues, I started my speech with such a monologue just to make it clear that Ukrainian land has no right to sell. And I, speaking from the faction of Communists, from the three national deputies of our faction who wrote this law so that we may today address all the national MPs that, at this difficult time, we cannot ask questions about the end of the moratorium and the land of 1 January 2010 became a commodity. I think there can be no such thing as Ukraine trading the land. You will consider, please, that out of 32 million ore lands today, 5 million have already been sold illegally. There's not a penny in the cash register. And at prices, according to our Earth cadastre, still Soviet times, this is, for example, five trillion bracelets. Not a penny today. We have a budget of 240 - 250 billion, and the land was sold for 5 trillion, and the money did not go into the budget. Please see whose hands the earth is in today? Who is in charge of it? Seven million acres [7 million ha] of land is almost unprocessed, including in the Kyiv region of one of the areas where you and I are located, almost 400,000 acres [400,000 ha] of land is not being processed today. It's made by a heifer, a willow, and others, they say, by natural cultures. I think that this project, which we're making to advance to better times, by the first, at least 1 January 12th year, the issue of selling a moratorium, we have to support by 100 percent, by 100 percent. This is our responsibility. Look, please, out of the 18 national deputies, not the national MPs, but the presidential candidates, 17 candidates, so that the land is not traded. Only one candidate, today's president, saves the earth from becoming a commodity. And in our Constitution, one of the articles that speaks of the President's impeachment, it clearly says four points, the betrayal of the Fatherland -- then the President, they have to announce the President's impeachment. Is selling land not a betrayal of the Fatherland? I have a question, and each one of you, I think, is a betrayal. As respectable colleagues, we made a huge mistake when we destroyed the earth in one generation. What about the earth that will remain another generation after us? If that's not the case, it's not the state's policy today that our leaders, our leaders, will remain our children and grandchildren? Today, France, Holland, Germany, England, and Sweden are gathering land. Land that is leased and sold to Schwede. And I could call it family in this room, but you know them, these people aren't very many. Not many of these people, who already sold 50, 100,000 lands virtually without the right, because the Land Code states in the Transitional Regulations that prior to the adoption of laws such as the Earth cadastre, and this is the quality of the land, its productivity; the Land Market Act and the Third Law on Earth Price Mechanism, nothing. It is said that the land is a commodity and is for sale, and has no right to do so. And the price of land is determined by two factors, two indicators. The first indicator is the natural productivity of the earth, the fertility in Russian is called. And the second. This is the standard yield today, which is today, the land, the hectare, takes the grain sector in 100 years, is taken on average, multiplied by the purchase price today, and multiplied by 100 years, and the price of land is determined. If on this scale, and on another scale today, there is no price mechanism, the average price per hectare of land from South to North, from West to East on average, is between $70,000 and $100,000 per hectare. Not 1.5 thousand hectares, not 1.5 thousand dollars, but 70 to 100. A Europe that has carbonite soils, sandstones, derno-subsolescents, the average price is 27-35,000. Ukraine and the Blacklands are now selling 1,000 to 1,500, charging their pockets to individual non - statesmen. So, dear friends, I think it's time for us to come to our senses, a time to come to our senses, and perhaps take a stand and see where we've led the country. Ukraine was the reference point on the European continent on agricultural issues, and Ukraine was giving everyone a tone to how to run an agri-industrial complex. Today, Ukraine has become a haven. We bring sugar, we bring meat, we bring milk, and we can count it. Today, we sell bread, and I buy meat and milk. We lose 3, 4, five times by selling bread or producing milk and selling meat or dairy products. What kind of trade is this? So, dear colleagues, please, let's think about it, we have no other way. Today, no one has invented a more productive agricultural sector management system than a large-scale, highly specialized farm. And if we understand that in 18 or 18.5 years, I think we should accept these amendments today, in the first reading and in general, and for two years to work on a new integrated agro-industry development programme and rational use of our agrarian resources. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u106	Any questions for the reporter? Please sign up. Upstairs Sergei Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u107	Upstairs, the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. Your Honor's report, and as you appreciate in your bill, the fact that 140 hectares of land in Medjugorje was illegally acquired by former Prime Minister, Presidential candidate Viktor Fedorovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u108	Thank you for asking. I don't appreciate it. Negative. Earth. I'm a former minister. I've been a minister for 10 years. I didn't take a half a hectare or two acres under the law, the Earth Code. But if a government official is allowed to do things like this, I don't think we're going to get it together.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u109	Suskevich Valeriy Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u110	Dear Alexander Mikolaiovich, you've just talked about the amazing facts that we're already selling millions of hectares. You called the numbers really amazing. But at the same time, you say that. [[B in m in s a l in]] Wait a minute, I hit it by accident. Alexander Mikolaiovich, this is what we're talking about. There are contradictions between what you say is already being sold and what you forbid to sell. If the auctions are ongoing, what can be done if the moratorium exists? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u111	I think you understand. Paul, I don't want to eat you out of the rostrum, because the whole state listens to us, but you can't ask such questions. It's a shame to ask them. If we fear for this state how this land is covered with the blood of our parents, our grandparents, from the old age to the present day, if today one of the candidates, speaking before the voters, says they're trading the land -- they're selling the devil's soul, well, I think that's where the deep contents are put in those words. If today, violating the Constitution, sells and finds crevices in the law, in the legislative system where anything can be done, if the Constitutional Court, which wrote a letter and splintered it, see how to cancel the 2008 Budget Act and give the green road to sell land. This is what the Constitutional Court did not so long ago, literally two months ago, the second time.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u112	Alexander Mikolaiovich, take a break and finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u113	amendments, again cancels and gives, they say, a green street to sell land. I have appealed to the head of the Constitutional Court, to the members of the court: you must understand, please, apply the law if you accept. Why? Because today we have someone they're trading with, they're making no one. I don't think it's time. Today, the whole world is buying up land, and in lease conditions, in a lease system, it's issuing land for use, but the state is clearly in control of how this land is used. Here my predecessor, the chairman of the Agrarian Committee, spoke and gave examples. I don't think we need to repeat them, they're eloquent. Doesn't that come to us today?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u114	Pisarenko Valeriy Volodymyrovich. Alexander Mikolayovich, that's all. That's enough. Pisarenko Valeriy Volodymyrovich, question.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, I would like to ask the reporter this question. You know, I fully support your ideology that we're not ready to open the market today and we need to continue the moratorium. But in parallel, we also need to engage in legislation that allows us to form a normal, civilized market. I'd like to ask you within one question, narrow but professional. I think you'll find an answer for him. Today, the moratorium is extended, including to such things as a change of purpose, including in populated areas. I would like to point out that the populace approves every genera and develops only within the framework of the master plan. Moreover, the master plan is approved by all the councils of all levels today. As of today, investments in populated areas are limited to the development of certain projects, including investment, construction, and so forth. Please tell us how you feel about today’s specialization of this part regarding the change of destination.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u116	Please finish the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u117	With regard to the change in the target destination at locations, what is not applicable to agriculture, but to allow investment today to develop cities, villages and villages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u118	I understand your question. Dear colleagues, changing the form of land use from one to the other is certainly the right thing to do. But this does not apply to agricultural issues. And that's the question that you raised, and the land that's at the disposal of the local authorities, that's certainly the right question. And I think that these amendments to legislation need to be made so that local councils can manage this, including investment contributions, taking into account further developments in a particular region.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u119	Hare Ivan Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u120	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. 40 percent of the pies are not owned today. I think it's problem number one next year to finally get this country back into the state and then think about what to do with it. If this is not done, then we will go to the plundering of the earth. We went down the path of creating a great landlord, actually LatiFundia. We did not want to follow the farmer’s path, where the land is given to the man who works on it and who lives on it. I think this is where the root of evil is today, because the earth is attributed to the nation in two ways: the first is because of ownership, and the second is as a resource of agriculture. It seems to me that we underestimate the fact that today Ukraine is on its way to LatiFundia, with huge rental companies, and is essentially destroying the village. And the last. The way out of the village, from my point of view, is to protect our market, it's not allowing our agricultural market from abroad, it's looking for markets for our agricultural production. What?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u121	Thank you. Ivan Alexandrovich, you're an experienced politician. But I want to remind you, this room, when the Earth Codex was adopted in 2000. Can you remind me of that? How you voted for him. You didn't let us vote. You went to Medvedchuk's office and conducted the Earth Code in the study.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u122	Just a minute. You held 238 votes, you put the state on its knees today, including you, John. [[B in m in s a l in]] Because you participated in that mosquito that was being held because Kuchma then put a task at any cost under the direction of the International Monetary Fund to execute and adopt the bill. And you took it completely unconstitutionally. So let's probably fix the mistakes you've made right now. It will correct the mistakes you have made with the dairy farm when in every yard a manure plant and a well of citizens cannot be kept in the yard.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u123	Stoyan Alexander Mikolaiovich, a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u124	Dear reporter. A party of regions supports your proposal that, in fact, the land cannot be a commodity, you have to impose a moratorium. But look, Alexander Mikolaiovich, you say the land is not being sold now, the moratorium is operating and you call the crazy numbers, the trillions made by someone from the sale of land, and not a penny is put into the budget. Perhaps the continuation of this moratorium will again contribute to the earth’s being sold at speculative prices, and no one will take into account what it costs or where it went. Do we not again promote this law to those areas that sell land and make capital on it? What is your proposal, how do you tighten up anyway, which laws must be in order not to allow the sale of any hundred land because the moratorium works? And now you know you're once again giving us the opportunity to speculate on the earth. Please give an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u125	Thank you. Alexander Mikolaiovich, colleague! I understand as well as you that we are with you before the President's election. And I believe that in 18 years, the Ukrainian people will overestimate values and choose a guarantor of the Constitution who will abide by the letter of the law, the letter of the Constitution, and will demand of us as Ukrainian citizens. And that's not going to happen. Because if we make this amendment today, I think both the new president and the new government will probably do everything to make the law superior. Then, of course, there will be no inadequacies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u126	Smythuch Grigori Ekimovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u127	Thank you. Dear Alexander Mikolaiovich, I have two short questions for you. The first question, in your statement, you said that 5 million hectares of agrarian sector were privatized under the so-called shadow scheme, including with the participation of foreign companies that you were called. Could you tell what kind of companies they were privatized to, that's the first question. And the second question is, who in particular is involved in this shadowy privatization of the earth, what political forces and what specific MPs have you been sounding? Please name their names.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u128	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I don't want to intrude before the elections of the people, because from our leading factions, all the factions of Parliament are representatives who are fighting for the President's chair. I don't want us to talk to each other about it, so I don't want to say it. But I called those states that are today awaiting a severance appeal that tomorrow will be the end of the moratorium. I don't think we have the right to do that. Let's wait a little bit, let's wait for these two or three weeks of the new president, and I think we're going to have these questions in place, I'm more than sure. Because the land in the Constitution 13 is clearly defined as “national property”. That's not what I said. That's what the Constitution says. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u129	Please take a seat, Alexander Mikolaiovich. The report by the Secretary of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, Tkaz Roman Volodymyrovich. Bevanka from the committee, report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u130	Honourable Alexander Volodymyrovic, honourable national deputies of Ukraine, Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations on 24 June 2009, reviewed the bill and considered that the moratorium on the sale of agricultural land is in effect and will take effect in the coming years before Ukraine's laws on State land cadastre, more specifically the introduction of land cadastre and the taking effect of the Land Market Act. The continuation of the moratorium on the sale of agricultural land is an additional bill, which is currently being defined, inhibits investment in agricultural production, the optimization of agricultural land, limits the rights of citizens, especially non-agriculture pensioners, the free management of their property and stimulates the shadow market of agricultural land, as is now the case. And the only way to eliminate this shadow market is by enacting appropriate laws, not by extending the moratorium directly, starting on January 1, 2002. In view of the fact that the moratorium is in effect and will take effect in the following year, the committee proposes that a bill be sent to amend the subject of the legislative initiative. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u131	Is there a question for a co-conspirator? Please log in. Gordijenko Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u132	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian company, Poltavščina. Dear comrades, there is no doubt today that a moratorium on the sale of agricultural land must be continued, says every Ukrainian citizen. Today you're all talking about the fact that there's no legislative field, and that's why this land is going to be stolen, and it's going to be bought into those people whose rights today you're protecting on behalf of the committee here in the rostrum. You're the one who's protecting them! I'm asking you a question today. Please tell me, how much do you personally and members of the committee have, do you have an agrarian business? Are you interested or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u133	Dear National Deputy Gordienko. So I don't personally have any agrarian business, and I don't even buy land, and I don't have a connection to that. But I want to tell you that today the moratorium on land sales is in place and will be in effect in the following year. Your bill came out a little early today.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u134	Pisarenko Valeriy Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u135	Thank you. Dear reporter, I wanted to touch this professional ingredient again. Of course, we should vote in our first reading today and improve this article so that today it does not prevent us from saving not only Ukrainian lands but also from developing Ukrainian villages and cities. Of course, there is no need to absoluteize the moratorium either. We realize that unless there is legislation, it needs to be established. But I also wanted to ask you from that point of view, should cities today be allowed to develop at the expense of their own determination of the change of destination, right within cities, and I'm not touching agricultural land today? After all, the city master plans are approved. But today, unfortunately, during the moratorium, cities, villages, and villages cannot develop. I wanted to ask your professional opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u136	Thank you for asking. I can only say one thing if the moratorium works on the sale of agricultural land, for which we voted earlier, and it will work next year. With regard to the review of the target destination of agricultural land within the city, an additional bill is needed to address these problems. That's why I'm counting on this bill to be prepared, because cities have to develop regardless of which land there is.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u137	Mishchenko Sergei Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u138	Thank you. Dear reporter, please tell me that you know that we are making these changes to this bill all the time, we are constantly doing, as they say, a decommissioning of the land market, the question of selling agricultural land. And it's not like we're going to solve this problem by 2012. I have a question for you. Indeed, in this way it is not possible to introduce the sale of agricultural land now. We're going to lead to a very huge problem if we're going to put this issue on the broad foot as of 1 January 2010. But here's the question. But when we do have it, and that's why the committee is responsible for it, and when we have the Land Market Act, all the laws that are necessary to make it clear, honestly, that the issue is not to undermine the rights of our citizens? Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u139	Thank you for asking. I want to say that the moratorium on the sale of land, agricultural land will not only work until 2012, it's my personal opinion, but it will work much longer. This involves not only the adoption of those laws but also the fact that the Law on the Earth’s cadastre should not just be put into effect, but it. The Earth cadastre must be implemented. And only after the Earth cadastre has been implemented on all land areas can a moratorium be decided.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u140	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u141	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Some dual position appears from a letter from a committee prepared by the Supreme Council. On the one hand, it's kind of like the extension of the moratorium, and on the other hand, paragraph 3, I'm going to quote your letter, not your letter, but the one signed by the committee head. “The continuation of the moratorium on the sale of agricultural land inhibits the arrival of investments in agricultural production, the optimization of landowners, limits the rights of citizens.” and so on. Do you understand what's going on? It turns out that not Ukrainians are bought for nothing today, not Ukrainians are buying everything, but you are "limiting the right of citizens". So I think that these contradictions are in the committee's letter, they're wrong, they need to be limited by the term and they need to be made by the two horns that are proposed in the project, that is, two horns -- and the term, and the adoption of laws. And you did have a contradiction. How do you comment on this contradiction in the letter? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u142	Thank you for asking. The point is that this is in the letter given in the notation part. You see, it is an objective part. But today we make a specific decision. The decision is not limited to the fact that the moratorium is in operation today and will take effect in the following year. In our opinion, this bill requires further alignment between paragraph 2 (b) and paragraph 14 of the proposed amendments. And in such a specific way, it cannot be accepted. So we're counting on sending him out for processing. The committee made that decision. I'm giving you the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u143	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Is there a need to discuss? Let's sign up, please. Zejnal's Edward Zhangirovich. Please, National Deputy Zebrovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u144	Dear colleagues, I'd like to divide this question into two parts. First. Why there is no grain, meat is not from ownership to the ground. There is a Nemesis Institute of Potatoes, a state form of property. There is no institution for potatoes. There are many councillors today, where the earth has not been scattered. And today, farming is ineffective. In fact, agriculture suffers from such disasters in Ukraine because of the stateless and pulverizing attitude of governments toward agriculture. Because of this. Not because they were ruining the earth, but because there is no significant forecast policy of supporting agriculture, because they import 1 in every 4 kilograms of meat, and this has continued in recent years. And that's a separate question. Ukraine can and should really be a living thing of the world. But to do this, we need a well - thought - out, serious work of governments, loving governments that will be here, with the support of agriculture. Now with regard to the continuation of the moratorium on land sales. Sadly, today this has turned into populism. One of them drives around and complains that the land can't be sold; others say that someone took something and so on. To the end, it is not said that there is a limited right to property in Ukraine today. For they have distributed the earth to men, and they have inherited it. And today, in the villages of the owners of the country, the less they ate, the less they had in the cities, because the children had inherited, the grandkids had inherited. And today, if we give up the land, we are not able to manage it. Because of this, the moratorium will definitely work according to the law we passed last December. We voted with you. And the moratorium will be extended for the following year. But you can't be half pregnant. Or we do. We decide that by ransoming those who have pies, by privatizing businesses by buying land into government property and renting it, that's the solution. Or we give the right to sell the land. What we've been doing in recent years is half the pregnancy. We don't solve the question, we freeze, we hang the question, and we let the dealers do whatever they want. As a result, friends, let us do what is right. Prepare legislative acts. And actually, if we are today, there's actually a decision that the earth has to be a national property, let's take legislation on the earth's redemption. And then that's the right thing to do. If not, then let us open up today the right to give people the opportunity to sell the land. There's no other way out. I think I am.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u145	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u146	That the moratorium in December of the adopted law, I also initiated this issue, will be extended to the following year. In addition, we do not regulate anything, unfortunately, by this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u147	The first after the break will be Smythe Grigory Evdzimovich. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 31 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u148	We're continuing the discussion. I invite you to the words of Gregory Eudkoymovich Smythuch. And Scoobashevski's national deputy is also passing on his rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u149	Honourable National MPs, Honourable Alexandre Volodymyrovich, citizens of Ukraine! Indeed, every December for several years now, the Supreme Council has considered one of the main issues for Ukraine: How to be a land market for the agricultural sector or not? Personally, I think that most of me national MPs and Ukrainian citizens support that the crisis that prevails or rages in Ukraine today cannot sell land at this time, because no one sells or sells anything in crisis only if they receive little income. What is happening today? We today have a contradiction between the Constitution of Ukraine and the existing legislation. On the one hand, article 13 of the Basic Law of Ukraine states that land, nadra, atmosphere, air, water and other natural resources within the territory of Ukraine, the natural resources of its continental shelf, including the sea economic zone, are objects of ownership of the people. Another article says that the protection of the rights of all property subjects, so the Ukrainian people, is protected by the Constitution. Convinced that by no accident the Basic Law gives land and natural resources special status, so to speak. Why? Given Ukraine’s period of independence, I think Ukraine’s independence has lost almost all major positions. So she lost financial independence because you know that Ukraine now owns, or does not own, the national banks of Ukraine or the financial system. Yes, to this day most businesses, industrial complexes do not belong to Ukraine, but belong to foreign citizens or legal persons. Similarly today, we are almost one step away from losing military independence. We have one: territorial independence. Territorial independence is also conquered in my mind in the modern world by two ways: either military or land repurchasing. Today, Ukraine, with such an economic situation, I think it's over the gap. Even if it permits the sale of land, it is one step closer to losing its independence. Why? You understand that no Ukrainian citizen or majority of Ukrainian citizens, and I call the “most” more than 90 percent, cannot compete with the Western “investors” so-called so-called so-called “no levels of advocacy”. In the land market. [[in cages]] They can't because they don't have the money, they don't have the ability to borrow today, and they don't have many other possibilities, including when they're processing land that they're able to compete with Western investors. That's why Ukraine. Ukraine as an greedy piece is very interested in Western investors in part of the land’s takeover. I count that the Supreme Council and we as national deputies are not qualified to do this. What do I think we should do? There is no doubt that there is a discussion. That's the market. they gave the land to the people and prevented them from managing the sales plan. In my view, of course, a person should be able to sell, not only to own, but to manage, that is, to be able to sell. But why did it happen that one generation of the population of Ukraine, one generation of one generation, have given up the earth and not even all the earth? Not all of Ukraine’s population, because one third of Ukraine’s rural population received this land, and another 70 percent of the population of Ukraine did not receive this ore land. There's a contradiction here, too, because all the subjects have. And all citizens have equal rights, and there is also a violation of the Constitution. What should I do, in my opinion? In order to provide a transitional period, the State must be a single subject of the earth’s redemption through local authorities, that is, distribution. Once we have distributed the land today, we need to take it and allow the state to redeem the land. And those citizens who want or cannot process this land or manage the land, let them take that money and spend it on their own needs. That is, there is a man in a settlement in a village who needs to sell land, sells and uses land. The cost of land for its needs. In this way, the state would store enough land in its reserves to satisfy it. for the future generation. Or make sure that the future generation is not born with fortifications. The future generation that we are born with in Ukraine, citizens of Ukraine were entitled to this land in accordance with article 13 and 14 of the Constitution of Ukraine. If we don't do this, we're going to be anchored in one day. According to statistics, about 5 million hectares of land -- and some figures say that more than 27 million hectares of ore land in Ukraine -- are owned by non-residents in Ukraine. Why do non - Ukrainians own it? They wait for this law to be gathered in one day. And you know that it was only for the right to rent rations that they paid mad money in the past years because they wanted to have the first priority, so to speak, the right to redeem the land. And they went to these losses, well, not damage, but costs that were not always, so to speak, explained the logic of the economy. Very large amounts were paid for the land’s right to rent, and they waited for the law to come. I believe that the Supreme Council and the population of Ukraine should never go for this. For at least 50 years, the State should have the exclusive right to ransom this land. If we do so, we will provide future generations, the future of our children, our grandchildren, with the right to rule and to be fully competent. feel like a citizen of Ukraine. If we accept this, at some point we will soon be without anything. Let me give you one last example. The Ukrainian industry was privatized. Please tell me, 90 percent of Ukrainian citizens are entitled to these businesses? We didn't get it. Did they take advantage of their right to profit? They didn't. Unless we protect Ukrainian citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u150	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u151	If the Supreme Council is today, someone will vote in favour of abolishing the moratorium, I count it, it will be the person who betrays the people of Ukraine, and it is unacceptable as a national MP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u152	Vaszczuk Katerina Timofievna
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u153	Dear colleagues, I'd like to stop at the decision that the committee has taken. It's like she's right. Indeed, the Final Provisions of the Code of Land provide that if a number of laws are not passed, the country’s market in Ukraine does not begin to work, that is, the moratorium is preserved. But Alexander Mikolayovich is right, and there may be different situations. For example, such a situation that will be adopted, at one beautiful moment these laws and east, from ship to ball, will begin to move to the market of the earth. And second moment. Not all courts can treat the earth’s code equally. And we already have it in practice. Because the Earth Code clearly defines how much land can be in one hand, prohibits it from buying to foreigners, and because of different black schemes, we have what we have today. And the "Livina Block" faction will fully support this bill so that we have a guarantee that there will not be a wild market for tomorrow. Of course, there is a conflict. Here the question was raised that many lands were already in place, without owners. Or children in the city, no parents, and the land is their inheritance. For this, it is possible to rent land or in the future, as we suggested, and in the Land Code it is clearly stated that a land bank should be created. And this bank is supposed to be a state bank, the State Land Bank. And he has these lands, and they haven't changed the form of ownership in any way, if they don't, to take account. And second moment. I would suggest that if we were not able to adopt this law in two full readings today, Alexander Mikolaiovich, that we write another paragraph there: that we conduct a clear revision of all the lands. Such monitoring, to whom, where and for what legislative acts is the land in Ukraine? And they had a clear picture of how much and where they're dumping it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u154	Please finish, Catherine Timothy.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u155	So, honourable colleagues, at this time, when there is no legislation written in this regard, I think we all have unanimous support for the bill of Tuckenka Alexander Mikolaiovich on the moratorium. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u156	School of Andriy Vasilovich, please. He's transferring the right to speak to the People's Deputy Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u157	Dear colleagues! Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! You know, every new year we meet in a session room not just with trees, not just with budget bells, receptions, but another question that we're looking at every year is the question of introducing a moratorium on land. Of course, we can continue this way for decades, but there is only one problem, and every year we talk about adopting the necessary legislation in order for us to have a land market, so that we can finally go quietly to this area in Ukraine. Moreover, the moratorium that he has set up today not only creates problems for us in the agricultural complex, the more anyone wants to do so today is finding ways to bypass this moratorium. And that's what the bill's author was talking about here today from this rostrum. So for today we have to give ourselves an open answer, we need a law today that will regulate all positions and basically cancel this moratorium every year. We need to adopt the Land Market Act, the State Land cadastre. What's going on today? For example, the President demands that today we cancel the moratorium and open the market, but what will this lead to? Of course, this will lead to chaos and the loss of our land. Before the owner of the Ukrainian land is unknown, he will certainly not be from Ukraine. The only problem is that there is no unity of position today in people who set up a state strategy for the development of our state. Therefore, I am convinced that the next President will bring legislation to Parliament's session room as one of the first issues. The question is not whether there will be laws, whether they will be sooner or later, the question is that the adoption of laws today alone does not solve the problem. Look at the system today for monitoring and transferring rights to land in any country of Europe and the world. If you look at the Baltic, you'll be ashamed to go back to Ukraine and see what's happening to us. In computer mode, you can see who owns every centimeter of the earth’s plot of ownership, where the boundaries are transferred, and how it is regulated. Today, Ukraine, which has been the inhabitants of the world, does not know where, where the earth is written down, who owns it, and how it is transmitted. So for today, normally, the moratorium needs to continue, and I support this initiative. I would also like to support the adoption of this law in general today, taking into account only one amendment. Today, the moratorium imposes too many restrictions that are not present to preserve Ukrainian agricultural land. So my proposal will be to provide investment today within the population.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u158	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u159	I want to point out once again that it's within the population of non-agricultural areas, where we have development and construction, where there are city master plans to add a phrase that changes in the target destination, that is, land use within the population, do not fall under the moratorium. This will ensure investment in the settlements in the development of the same villages that many are talking about, so that infrastructure can be rebuilt not only by the state but also by investors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u160	Schmellow Svetlana Alexandrovna
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u161	Adam Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u162	Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u163	Dear colleagues, I would like to take full responsibility for the bill that we are currently discussing. What's more, we're in the last sessional plenary week. We're finishing 2009 and if we don't accept this bill today, and we need to adopt it not only in the first reading, but in general, as a law, then as of January 1, 2009, we're opening, or I'll say, half opening for the sale of land. I'm probably not going to open any of you up, as they say, America when I say that the most important problem is question number one, which is the question of all foreign visitors who visit our country and when they meet with the highest state leaders, whether the President or the Prime Minister or the Chief of the Supreme Council, the question number one is not surprisingly the democratic development of Ukraine, not the future presidential election and so on, and so on, and so on, not the economic assistance of the more developed countries of the West for Ukraine in solving their problems, but the question number one: when allowed to sell Ukraine's most fertile land. Why? It's very simple. Because some analysts say that foreign investors are called having up to 5 million acres [5 million ha] of Ukrainian land, they already own it, they've already bought it, they've only got one right to rule, to own it privately. And let's not let that happen. Let's not let that painting that we saw in the years of World War II when the Germans drove the wagons out of the Ukrainian Blacklands. And now they want to go a easier, more efficient way: not drive, but come and own our black lands. On the other hand, when I meet the rural population, I understand their desire that, strangely enough, the peasants are speaking today for someone to buy this land from them, because when they get pie, they don't know what to do with it. There's only one way out. In fact, I support the proposals, and I think they need to be legalized and obliged to buy into the country’s land. The state has to buy land into peasants, pay the peasants money, and build state - owned agricultural enterprises on this state property. Only in this can there be a solution to this problem. And it is surprising that the Constitutional Court has twice ruled not to continue the moratoriums. Larchik, I'm sorry, it's very simple to open again. We have to let foreigners have that right.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u164	Complete, please, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u165	So I'm asking, and I'm addressing you, dear colleagues, let's address this issue from state, state, Ukrainian positions -- let's continue the moratorium. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u166	Danilenko Vladimir Andriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u167	Alexandersky please pass on the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u168	Please, Alexandrovska Alla Alexandrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u169	Dear colleagues, the issue we are currently considering is a fateful one for Ukraine. And the previous speaker has already, I think, made it clear to all of us that how we vote today depends on Ukraine's future depends on the fate of those living in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u170	Alla Alexandrovna, I'm sorry, one second, stop to hear it. The next 6 minutes Matthew Vladimir Josephovich gives the word to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u171	Thank you, I think I'll fit into my Rules. Here, in the hall, I was alerted by one of the points spoken by Deputy Pisarenko, the faction of Yulia Timoshenko, that “there is a need for investment, and the failure to decide that the land must be sold limits the right of investors”. I want those people who listen to this broadcast to understand what this is about. Very often, especially our young people or people living in the village, they like the word “investment”. Because politicians, experts are talking, saying that we need investment, foreign investment, how many billions we got, how much we want to get. And the young people in Ukraine, and I'm facing students in Harkovština, and my personal meetings with them, and with lawyers, and with future economists, are saying that they don't understand the essence of what happens when they talk about investment. When I tell them that investment is money in exchange for property. It's us that's giving away our factories, and now they're offering to give away our land. Everything else is credit. Everything else is borrowing. And investment is money in exchange for property. And when we tell those people or our peasants this, people grab their heads and say, "O my God! Then why do we need it?"!" We need money from the State. We need money for development. But is it possible to give the State in exchange for a perspective?Oh, my God! Give up the land! Give up our independence! Give up our sovereignty! To surrender the fate of our people and the fate of our children! Of course not! And here are the people to whom we explain it agree. Therefore, the issue of investment needs to be removed. Investors must be a State and our colleagues have already spoken and talked about how this can be done. And we, the communists, have repeatedly proposed the adoption of the Land Fund Act, the State Enterprise Land Fund, which will have the right to dispose of those lands that have not yet been torn apart and the Land Fund must have the right to rent, to create large-scale enterprises, to finance from the budget, and that will be real public investment, and the right of the people who have obtained land in the breakup will not be violated. We see these mechanisms around the world. Why don't we go down that road in Ukraine?Oh, my God! Because some have the illusion that they will be able to secure the future of their children by means of the wealth of the entire people — wealth, the right to land. It's an illusion. I ask you, dear colleagues, what has happened to the financial system of Ukraine? What happened to the banking system? What is happening to Ukraine today? A crisis all over the world. But in Ukraine, the most difficult situation has happened. Why? 30 per cent of the banking system was owned by foreign nationals. And of course, when it decides where they need negotiable funds, where they need money for loans, they decide in favour of their country, their nationals, their creditors, their people and, at the expense of course, Ukraine's interests. We gave it to you, really. Right here at the Supreme Council, when all factions except Communists voted to amend the Banks and Banking Act. I am paralleling that we have placed our financial system hostage to the international financial system, the international financial architecture, as a truly weak State, unfortunately. I therefore appeal to you today to support the proposal to extend the moratorium for at least the next two years. During this time we must create laws that will allow the State to regulate serious land relations, the State to be the full owner and defender of those people who now own small pies: 3, 5, 6 hectares – can this pie give people the opportunity to live? Of course, the more people are bullied, taken away from them, raped them, forced to make treaties not in their interest, treaties that violate the interests of our peasants. And the extent to which we are engaged today, literally, at a border where, in fact, people cannot prove their right to land and the right to receive income from that land. Dear colleagues, I am confident that the Supreme Council of Ukraine understands its responsibility to the future, to the people of Ukraine, for whether Ukraine will be independent, sovereign, whether people will live peacefully here, whether our people will have a future with our children, I think we will support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u172	Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u173	Dear Alexander Vladimirović, distinguished colleagues! I was pleased to hear an objective analysis of the situation in the agro-industrial complex, which presented one of the best specialists in Ukraine in the APC, Aleksandr Nikolaevich Tkachenko. And really, what he said, he drew a picture of a pretty complete collapse. Over the years, the APC, the agro-industry complex, has been virtually destroyed and destroyed. Another year of this power, another year of farming on land and Ukraine will be repeated in 1937. We don't have to take the historians off the shelf. You'll think about it. Animal husbandry is practically destroyed. What an animal breeding complex was in the Soviet Union. Animal husbandry has been destroyed, and now they're bringing in the meat that people are digesting. The dairy industry has been destroyed. Whoever sells milk for kopecks, who sells milk, who sells milk, who sells milk, who sells milk for cash, who sells milk for money, who sells milk for money, who sells milk for money, who sells milk for money, who sells it for money, who sells it for money, who sells it for money, who sells it for money, who sells it for money, who sells it for money, who sells it for money, who sells it for money. It's all gonna go under the knife, all the head of a big cattle. This year, the orange power almost destroyed the sugar industry. You'll think about it. There's no sugar in Ukraine. We're done, we're done. Nine bracelets under a tree, sugar price this year! Now let's get some sugar?Oh, my God! Sugar mills are destroyed. There's no beetroot. Let's bring sugar. But most terrible, almost under the veil of their power, they invaded the saints, and they decided to tear the earth apart! And here it is, right, said Alexander Nikolaevich Tkachenko, a wise man who walks the earth until there is a new President, cannot sell the land! I understand he's a humble man. He could not say out of modesty, although he well knows that Victor Fedorovich Janukovic will be President. A new president will arrive, settle the country, settle the land, provide financial support to the village. That's when we carefully, scrupulously, leniently, leniently approach the issue of selling land. Today, under the current authority, the sale of land is a crime against its people. And the faction of the Party of the Regions supports the initiative of Aleksandr Nikolaevich Tkachenk to extend the moratorium on land sales, at least until the orange power is removed from the sub-divisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u174	Pisarenko Valeriy Volodymyrovich is transferring the right to speak to Andriy Vasilovich Skull.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u175	Yes, he was good, thank you, Mr. Chairman. Deputies! Dear radio audiences, television audiences! Yeah, the last performance, it was a real flash. A real flash. Of course, confused dates, 37th, 33rd. What difference does it make? Well, right here, I mean, in principle, when we listen to speeches, there's just this, you know, set of equilibristic phrases that don't make any sense. I'd like to talk about the bill. I know it's already here, it's just an electoral campaign. And they use the rostrum and the microphone of the Supreme Council for another, but still. I would like to point out that when we talk about the moratorium, there are reasons for doing so. There is no practical, very small group of people in this room who do not support the subject that the earth is supposed to be a commodity. But under what conditions? We were waiting for the president to announce that a bill on land cadastre would be put into the session hall to assess the land. And that's where we have to start. So first, the Supreme Council has to vote and adopt these laws that guarantee that the earth will be valued with quality, full value; that the cadastre. will exist as a phenomenon. When we know what we own, we can record a moratorium. In fact, it dictates the desire and concern of the people's deputies for this moratorium to be extended is the most important thing because we need to understand why this is happening. And I agree that this situation cannot be permanent, we have to finally go through this long, difficult but necessary road for Ukraine. And to say loudly that there's going to be land in the 12th, 15th year the product that someone's boycotting it or not doing it right is always going to have to start with themselves. I mean, there were promises, we didn't get them. Because when we talk about the initiative, it's an initiative or it's so quiet that we can't hear it, or other initiatives are so loud that they're destructive that they're suppressing constructive initiatives. What do I mean? The Land cadastre law is needed. Why can't we hear it from both the President's forces and the President, why can't we hear it? Actually, when we talk about what the law is necessary, is someone blocking? Name a name, a name, a parent, but again, it's not a regular election crash that was before. And that's all, unfortunately, the pre-election crack, and it's going to end very quickly. So I support that the next President introduces the right laws, that everything will be done quickly and qualitatively, and we will not be afraid of that and go through it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u176	Mishchenko Sergei Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u177	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! Well, the thesis that we need to continue the moratorium until we have a new president, I think it's inappropriate, because there's such an idea that a new president is coming, he and his team are going to crack everything that hasn't been crushed in this country on the land market. So let us not tie the presidential election to this issue. The man who will lead our nation and the team that will lead us forward, including on land issues. And as for what the author proposed -- to continue the moratorium by 2012 -- that's a very good offer. I'm sure that everyone should support this proposal, given that if we don't vote for it, we're going to be finally selling farmland from January 1st, and we're going to form such a land oligarchy in a country that will then dictate to us, our children, our offspring, all the conditions on this earth, and we can't do anything in our country. So it's clear that by the 12th year, if we hadn't prepared for January 1st, 10th year, we hadn't passed laws on the land market, the Earth cadastre law, which is the technical law, if we didn't have the ability to tell what hands the earth is in today. But today there's another problem, that today agricultural land is still being sold under those schemes, according to the raid schemes that exist in the state. You know that the decision of the courts can change the purpose of the land, an agricultural assignment, to another. Therefore, the court has decided to execute this decision by the Land Court, the Land Administrations Departments on the spot, and then the State Act is issued for another purpose that can be sold. So we also have to look at the fact that by the 12th year, apart from these laws, we have to make strict conditions for those who apply these raid schemes. We have the same schemes not only within these land areas, but also outside, because we do not accept the law so far, that land disputes are resolved only in the location of the land. I remind you again, we keep putting it in the agenda, we can't vote it out. So think about if you have a land or a place close to you, or if your acquaintances have a land plot in one area, it is by a court decision in another area.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u178	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u179	So the decision of the court in another area can take this land away. So in the complex, we need to deal with land surveying now, with the introduction of land laws that will open up a civilized, open way of selling land, but this law is absolutely necessary today, it needs to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u180	The discussion is over. Dear colleagues, I've asked you several times not to name the names of your deputies, because then we have to listen to the lines. Now the MP has the right to reply by the national deputy of Hare Ivan Alexanderovich. Then Pisarenko Valeriy Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u181	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. To the reporter, Mr. Tkachenka, I made three proposals, and I suggested in 2010 that we finally return to government property almost 40 percent of the pies that do not have the owner. This is about 13 million hectares. And it's around this land that the oligarchs are spinning. I offered to finally identify myself with a basic agricultural enterprise for the benefit of a farmer, not a latifundist. I offered to protect the internal market from production abroad. Instead of answering, however, I heard the reporter’s indignation. Let the report show that 95 percent of the world’s agricultural production is produced by farmers rather than by latifundists. The reporter, like all the left-wing Communist forces, did not give the Ukrainians land in the early 1990s for farming. And it was the left oligarchs who did their best to ensure that there was no legislation in Ukraine that would fully regulate land relations, for they themselves were large landowners. That's why we don't have to be responsible for the land market, but you, Mr. Reporter. The other one. When the Earth Code was adopted, unfortunately, I wasn't a national deputy, and I wasn't a minister, because the bear Communists had already been suspended.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u182	Last sentence, please. It's a line, not a performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u183	Where I headed the Ministry of Ecology, retired. But instead of being a deputy, I literally stormed an agrarian committee that then headed Vaschuk to improve the Earth Code. Sadly, they did not listen.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u184	The replica. Pisarenko Valeriy Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u185	Valerius Pisarenko, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. Dear citizens of Ukraine, well, of course, in the perspective in which my last name was given, I would like to make a point. Once again, I say that our faction fully supports the preservation of Ukrainian land for the Ukrainians and the preservation of our black lands. Moreover, today we will vote in favour of this law. But I wanted to point out, and I want you to hear me again, that today we can even ban and run to someone in the Presidents of Ukraine, as individual colleagues with you today are proposing separate bills. But I suggest that we remove from this law certain positions that are unnecessary for this law, such as the change of purpose in cities, villages, and villages. What is the right of the village to build a culture house before it is not possible to buy and sell land to Ukrainians? It's nothing to do with it, and that's why the offer was coming. And I'm asking the room to support this proposal, because these are the investments they're talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u186	It's a closing statement. Alexander Mikolaiovich Tkachenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u187	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! Of course, the question that we're considering today is, I think, it's affected everyone not for the soul, but for the heart, because all the issues that we're considering are clearly in need of the state. But the question of the earth, the question of living space, the question of 15 million people living in rural areas, it's a question of questions. And I think that this unity, the understanding that the MPs have expressed today, speaking out of this rostrum, confirms that we are statesmen with you. In many years, as a deputy to the Soviet government and as a deputy to the current government, I have not heard such performances in a long time. This is because the Ukrainian national MPs are mature people, the Ukrainian national MPs today correctly assess everything that is going on -- both negative and positive. But believe me, dear friends, that no other country in the world has ever traded their economy. We cannot allow Ukraine to be a phenomenon on the planet in this matter. And if we support this bill with you today, we'll be working on it later, because the Earth Code needs to be seriously improved, and we've made the right statement on this issue. But we must decide today: Do not let the earth leave the hammer on January 1, 2010. Do not let what the Constitutional Court has done by making two commercial mistakes in my decisions, and I have said for them. I did not write to the Head of the Constitutional Court and asked him to explain why they made such decisions without taking into account the basis of those laws — whether budgetary or other laws, amendments to which they were made. So, dear friends, I think the Ukrainian people will thank us for this if we vote unanimously today and not give the President a chance today to impose a moratorium. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u188	I would like to vote on the proposal for approval in the first reading of the draft Act amending section 10, paragraphs 14.15, of the Code of Land. [[Registration number 3425]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:12:14]] For 332 Decision taken. One second, there are proposals for further consideration of this bill. Just one MP? No, it's not. Four. Let's write it down then. Let's write down the proposals for further consideration of this bill. School of Andriy Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u189	Pass the word to Pisarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u190	Dear colleagues! I would like to propose, first of all, to adopt this law today, but taking into account the proposals that were being made in the hall, namely: in paragraph "b" after the words "for social needs." Finally, to conclude with the words: "and in addition to the change in the target destination of the land within the populated area." [[I'm speaking for the transcript.]] [[in quotes - use]] So what we're going to do is we're going to get the population out of the business of not selling, that's to change the target destination so that they can do some investment projects on their own inside cities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u191	Schmellow Svetlana Alexandrovna Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u192	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. I'll start with suggestions, persistent suggestions, a colleague of Pisarenko's. They have a right to life, but, Valérie, look, where do you suggest you take them? She needs to find a place for this repair, Pisarenko, look. Because if we put it where you're offering it, it says here that you're not allowed, so you're writing in a chapter where you're not allowed to do what you want to do, what you want to do. So we need to find another place and support it. And another thing, Alexander Volodymyrovich, is that the reporter gave you an amendment that makes the law more flexible, clearer. Therefore, it is with that amendment that “not since 1 January” but “not earlier than 1 January” will be more logical “since 1 January 2012”.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u193	Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u194	Dear Alexander Vladimirovic, distinguished colleagues, I believe today that most parliamentarians have united on the basis of the protection of Ukraine's national interests and voted in favour of the bill proposed by Alexander Tkachenko and supported by the faction of the Party of the Regions. I think we have done a good job, and we need to continue to work strictly on the procedure to bring this law into force, to protect the real Ukrainian land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u195	Tarasjuk Boris Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u196	Please pass the word to Zebrovski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u197	Paul Ivanovich Zebrovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u198	Dear colleagues, look at this law, article 14 of the Final Regulations: “until the Ukrainian Act on State Land cadastre and land market are effective, the introduction of land rations is prohibited, the right to statutory farm societies.” So really, what do we have? By January 1, 2012, banning it. And if, in principle, an accepted land cadastre is not accepted by 1 January, then what, the moratorium cancels? I mean, I think that these norms are making the previous law worse, and that's why I'm convinced that we have to make it right before adoption, even by 2012, if the land cadastre is not adopted, if the land market law is not passed, then it can't be done. That is why this law should be sent for second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u199	Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u200	Please pass the word to Catherine Timothy Vaszczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u201	Please, Catherine Timothy.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u202	Dear colleagues, we'd all like to improve and there's no limit to improvement. But I support the opinion of those colleagues who say that today is the last week of work this year, and we need to adopt this law as a whole in order for it to take effect from the 1st. As a result, additions to the earthly code can be made, and there is no limit to improvement. Today, however, the faction proposes that the law be put to the vote in general so that we can be sure that as of January 1, the land in Ukraine will be protected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u203	Jereshko Igor Henadiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u204	None. Alexandrovska Alla Alexandrovna
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u205	Dear colleagues, I think it makes sense to accept the proposals, as amended by Alexander Nikolaevich Tkachenko, and as said by Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, and to adopt the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u206	We still have time. The final Vladimir Leontijovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u207	Bevanko, please pass it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u208	Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this bill cannot be adopted in general today, it needs to be processed as a minimum, in a second reading. The point is that the bill requires harmonization of paragraph 2 of subparagraph “b” with paragraph 14 of the proposed amendments to the Transitional Provisions of the Code in part of the application of land rights to statutory funds of agricultural societies. This was not done immediately, and we must stick to the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u209	Thank you. The conversation's over. Dear colleagues, sadly, are a little late, but there are suggestions that respond to Paul Ivanovich Zebrowski’s wrongdoing. The proposals are written by the rapporteur, so as not to take away the words that are in 14-15 paragraphs, namely the restrictions on the entry into force of the laws of Ukraine on the State Land cadastre and on the land market, leave both there and there, and then add the words: “but not before 1 January 2012”. So it's, well, it's time for the preparation and approval of these two laws and the implementation of them in regulations. I mean, if we were to vote in general with these proposals, if no one were to deny it, we could do it. What if there's a denial? [[B in m in s a l in]] Is there a denial? There's a denial. [[B in m in s a l in]] Alla Alexandrovna, there is a denial of the national MPs of Ukraine. Please raise your hands to whom there is a denial. Dear colleagues, we were commended on our first reading. There's a lot of hands, there's a denial in the second and there's these proposals. I'll ask the committee to make these proposals, including these proposals, please form them as quickly as possible. As soon as the table is complete with the agreement of the session room, we will enter and consider. Is such an offer accepted? Thank you. [[B in m in s a l in]] As soon as the committee is ready, let's put it in the room so that we can get an answer, yes or no? [[B in m in s a l in]] As soon as they're ready, that means it could be tomorrow morning, it could be Thursday morning, when the committee gives a table. We invite the people’s deputies to consider it immediately. Alla Alexandrovna, please help me get this project approved as soon as possible. Dear colleagues, we have completed our consideration of the matter, we cannot put to the vote in general if we deny it. Please give me a brief, three-minute offer for further consideration. Please sign up. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u210	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! Dear citizens of Ukraine! It is clear to everyone that there is no need to make any proposals to this law. It's very obvious, it's a political issue, it's a matter of perspective. It's a matter of worldview -- should the land be made a commodity or not? It is already, unfortunately, done, including by allowing land exchange. As a result, we do not write what exchange, which even though there are no crevices, but there is simply a failure to comply with the law, the trade in land has been and is still going on. So there's an offer either for the evening session, or for tomorrow, for tomorrow's morning session to lay down this law and allow the President to advise the people before the new year by signing this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u211	Alexandrovska Alla Alexandrovna
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u212	Dear colleagues! Dear Alexander Vladimirovich! The issue is so serious that we cannot risk and make this decision conditional on the extension of the moratorium on the will of the individual committee. Today, we have heard a report from the Committee and, in fact, this is the position of the individual. I therefore propose that a specific deadline be set for the Committee to submit its second reading proposal to the morning meeting tomorrow. If the Committee does not do so, it will be put on the agenda and considered without a decision of the Committee. Please make such a proposal so that this proposal is supported by the Chamber.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u213	Vaszczuk Katerina Timofievna
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u214	Dear colleagues! Note this. If we do not now vote on this bill as a whole, those who want to show that we are in favour and do not really want to adopt this law for political reasons. They will do whatever it takes to ensure that he is not accepted at all by the new year. Why? Because there could be a return to the decision that we'll be in the districts. We'll leave on January 1st. Therefore, no one interferes with you, your fellow national MPs, to submit further details to the Earth Code in January, to correct it, to submit them, but here everything is clear and clear and there is nothing to fix. [[I respect each and every one of you, just like all of us.]] Let's put it to a vote for adoption as a whole, because there are over 300 deputies in the room who will support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u215	Pisarenko Valeriy Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u216	Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues, I will make two more radical proposals. First. By supporting our colleague, Mrs. Vaschuk, this is what we are now voting for. And the amendments made by the deputy of Žebrovsky and the deputy of Pisarenko include, and we vote in general. If there's a majority in the room, it goes through. If not, we're voting, we're giving the commission to the committee, to the evening meeting with the first question, now the committee here is practically all in stock, they're gathering, the amendments aren't so much, we can now and the first question at the evening meeting, because, really, there's a problem with this law. But let's face it, we all understand that the President will show us a great veto on this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u217	The conversation is over. Dear colleagues, I would like to propose then a decision that comes out of the proposal of deputies. There have been objections to voting in general because there are other proposals. Proposals are essentially two. One proposal written by Aleksandr Mikolaiovich Tkachenko is not to remove any words from the “Transitional Regulations” except to add two existing restrictions under the Land Market Act and the Earth cadastre to be set on 1 January 2012. Add additional restrictions: after the adoption of the Land Market Act and the State Land cadastre, but not before 1 January 2012. That's one proposition. And the second sentence of the People's Deputy Pisarenko. If there is no objection, can we now vote in favour of these amendments with a view to making a decision in general? Is there no objection? Would you mind denying who? People's deputy Stojko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u218	Dear colleagues! Indeed, the law that is being considered today is too important to our nation. And that's why I'm not surprised by the Communists. They were, they're going to be for the colporteurs. But I'm surprised at others. To those who are trading today, give gifts to the earth, and sell it. Where the biggest latifundists are in those factions. And they want to preserve the privileges for themselves again so that the people can neither sell land nor buy or even make a living. And the mother, as it were, thousands of hectares. Therefore, I firmly deny that we will accept the whole thing today. Now, if you'll excuse me, I'd like you to transfer it to the second reading. Because I have my own proposals. I'm not gonna talk right now, and I'm gonna write it down.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u219	Dear colleagues! We're never going to end up like this. I have an offer. It's a 16-hour plenary meeting. I'm going to ask you for a quick plate, and two suggestions are made to keep them in a table that's given to the deputies. Let us vote on the proposal of the deputies and be determined as a whole. Let's move on to the next question of the agenda. Dear colleagues, we should now consider draft laws amending the Law on Financial Services and State Regulation of Financial Services Markets. Our current nominee, Deputy Kulikov, is now in the west of Interpol and has asked us to move these bills? No objections to MPs? Is there no objection? We'll take it to Thursday. All three, they're alternate. Or two here? We need to include in the agenda a bill amending some of the laws of the Ukrainian National MP Novikov. I am voting on the proposal to include the bill in the agenda of the day. [[13:30:08]] For-195 The decision is not taken. It's not on. The factions, please. Region Party – 129, “Timoshenko Yulia Block” – 2, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” – 19, Communists – 26, “Litvina Block” – 16, non-fractional – 3. There's an offer to come back. I would like to return to the vote on the question of the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act on Amendments to certain laws of Ukraine. [[on anti-corruption and anti-corruption]] [[Registration number 5398]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:31:01]] For 228 We went back to the vote. I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the session and today's consideration of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on anti-corruption and anti-corruption]] [[Registration number 5398]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:31:33]] For 228 Decision taken. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on the prevention and suppression of corruption is being announced for consideration. Report by Novikov Oleg Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u220	Dear colleagues, Mr. Chairman, your opinion is proposed on December 17, this year's draft Ukrainian Law amending some of Ukraine's anti-corruption laws. [[Registration number 5398]] The Supreme Council of Ukraine was adopted on 11 June this year in a second reading and as a whole a package of anti-corruption laws of the Ukrainian Law on Principles for Preventing and Opposing Corruption, “On the Responsibility of Legal Persons for Taking Corruption Offences”, “To Amend Certain Ukrainian Legislative Acts on Liability for Corruption Offences”, which took effect on 18 July. The date of entry into force of these laws was January 1, 2010. This package of laws is based on the world’s anticorruption standards: the United Nations Conventions against Corruption and the Criminal Convention on Combating Corruption, which Ukraine acquires on January 1st and March 1, 2011. Ukraine’s draft Act amending certain laws on prevention and anti-corruption provides for three amendments to each of the above laws. [[Registration number 5398]] The adoption of these changes will allow the introduction of Ukraine’s laws to be suspended and transferred from 1 January 2010 to 1 January 2011 and, accordingly, to continue for a year the Anti - Corruption Act. Based on this proposal are the results of a systematic study of the laws listed by the legal community and discussion of them in many forums, seminars, in the scientific environment, among law enforcement officials, among the forces that testify to the existence in these laws of disagreements, contradictions that require a meaningful improvement in the text of these laws. Regrettably, the time that has been left to date prior to the entry into force of the aforementioned laws does not allow for the preparation and consideration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to make appropriate changes to the aforementioned laws. At the same time, the implementation of these laws also requires the adoption by the Supreme Council of Ukrainian laws on conflict of interest in public officials' activities, on State financial control of public service, on the National Bureau of Anti-Corruption Investigations of Ukraine. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council believes that, as a result of the first reading, my bill can be adopted on the basis of the comments and suggestions made. At its meeting on 18 December 2009, the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that it adopt a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on preventing and combating corruption. [[Registration number 5398]] It is proposed that the proposed bill and the position of the committee be supported. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u221	Question to the reporter. Please sign in. National deputy Kaskiv, please. Knyazevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u222	Dear reporter, there is actually one problem that really needs our effective and operational response. The point is that these laws also refer to members of the district and district election committees as individuals who are subject to appropriate anticorruption legislation. Members of the district election boards in these elections are several hundred thousand, nearly a million people working for less than two months. These people have nothing to do with public service. There are examples in Ukraine, the members of the commission are calling and saying that the individual political forces have begun to speculate: either you are working for us, or tomorrow we are starting to seek compromise on you through your relatives, the prodigals, and so on. In this part, this law needs immediate correction. I remind you that we have the next local election, where again someone will abuse it. The next year, we'll be in elections where a million Ukrainians will be blackmailed entirely for deliberate reasons. That's why I think.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u223	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u224	So I think if you don't even get through your proposal today -- because I don't think it will pass, and it's probably not in time -- you need to immediately introduce a harmonized law to amend the law, at least in this part. And I'm sure there's no one in this room who won't vote for it. Because if they do, it means that someone has come up with such a way of falsifying the outcome of the election, which is a disgrace to Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u225	Mr. Ruslan, thank you for, say, your question and your answer. But I want to point out that in this bill, for example, which is 1506, there are still legal persons listed. So today, if this anti-corruption package of laws that we passed and didn't work on, from January 1st, every accountant in Ukraine, and 90 percent of Ukrainian accountants are co-sponsors, they're going to get a report on corruption, because these are clearly written standards in these bills. Here. And that's just what I called a little bit. The same is true of teachers of colleges who are coworkers. Since January 1st, the total closure of colleges will only begin because they will begin to lose accreditation, because the teacher who teaches in one branch has no right to teach in another branch, which is also a contradiction to the Constitution. Moreover, since January 1st, it is possible to remove the President from January 1st.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u226	More lenient, please, more lenient. Complete the answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u227	Disengage from work. Why? A report on corruption is being drawn up, for three days, and according to the law, a person must be released. What kind of tool? Is that so?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u228	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u229	Yuri Carmazin. Of course, the arguments you gave are serious. But the question is different. Of course, there is still the possibility of a struggle between the President’s musketeers and the Prime Minister’s guards. And it could be right now. But we realize that the best enemy of the good. Or the changes you've made that would make it impossible for teachers, for others, for doctors, for others, for other non-aggressors that we have there, or for accountants, and so on, because this is half-country, half-country might actually be involved. Do you have any changes to offer right now? One, question. And the second question. Do you not foresee that perhaps not such a long term, not since January 1, 2011, but for at least three months. Let's do it by May 1st or May 1st, July 1st, let's say. July 1st, maybe so -- six months to go. Do you understand?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u230	Yuri Anatolyovich, that's a very good offer. I totally agree with you. But I'm afraid three months -- we're not going to make it, because that's being a tough presidential battalion to go. So I think we can shorten the deadline by May 1st, and from May 1st, start a normal, functioning bill. First. The other one. We're today. No, in 2010. Today, I believe that before this bill, if it should come into force on January 1st, it would be appropriate to introduce an anti-corruption amnesty so-called, that those civil servants who were buying housing somewhere in Baden-Baden or whatever would have stolen it would have sat down and in six months prepared their declaration to which all their belongings, wealth and everything else had been made. And from May 1st, please, until now, we will exclude teachers, doctors, members of district committees, and then it will enter into force.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u231	Bodnar Olga Borisovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u232	Oleg Bodnar, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. Please pass the word to Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u233	Oleg Volodymyrovich, that's what's bothering me. I remember we're just getting to some of these special topics, so we had a story to cancel the elite pension. Everyone's in favor, but they don't want to cancel. We want to have one hundred and thirty acres or so, just like our Supreme Council, so they can pay the tax. And there's some kind of coma, and everybody's saying "blin," and this is such a coma, if we take it, it's going to break the whole law. And here in the law we have debated for several years, forbade direct relatives in order for the President not to appoint children, for all brothers and sisters not to be appointed. Conflicts of interest have been eliminated so that the mayors do not advertise the land competition and win their wives. And they say, "This is not corruption." And now we find that there are some standards that are bad, and we want to take down the entire principle block of anti-corruption laws because there's some kind of norm. It would be better if your committee now suggested that one or two of the bad standards that you say should be removed, rather than abolishing the law for a year. So I think it's a better way to suggest that it's bad, but let's keep the laws, we've been fighting for them for a few years.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u234	Mr. Mikolo, thank you for your question and for your reasonable offer. But once again there is a problem in this package of legislation, because the current legislation, article 14 of the law writes about close relatives, close persons, and today the Ukrainian Family Code, the Criminal Procedure Code does not have such rules, are "close relatives". And that again opens the way for any abuse, you know? So it's really a good suggestion that this law should be done, that it should be taken away from bad standards, that it should be left to good ones. That's why I'm saying the committee won't be able to make it in these three days that we've had through the committee on these issues and take it to the session room. So there's an offer to cancel out not for a year, I agree, let's do five months, not five, three months. Then there will be fruitful work to be done. But for today, from January 1st, there is still a proposal to defer.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u235	She's a blacksmith, Alexander Vilenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u236	Dear Mr. Novikov! Tell me, you have so beautifully criticized the law in force. Can you tell me how it was accepted in such a case? Motivation. The other one. As you think or sign your bill, the President, if we accept or veto, that's the second question. And the third question, look, you've agreed since May 1st and January 1st, of March 1, don't you know that we're not going to be working actively for the next few months, because we're going to have completely different problems and completely different populist aspirations related to elections that are going to be May 30th, whatever they are. Thank you. And you can still, the time left, a little scream about this law, because there's something to criticize.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u237	Thank you for asking. I want to answer you. First of all, as this law has been passed, this law is really necessary for today. All three of the laws that we have passed are necessary, yes, but this is probably my fault as a national deputy, as a member of a committee to combat corruption and organized crime. The fact that we didn't work on it, the second time we read it, we didn't have to work on it at this point. We didn't do it. I don't blame myself. As for the terms, once again, really, given that the battalions are going to be very long-term presidential, it's best that we stay calm over this bill. Those MPs who won't participate in the electoral campaign, worked on it on the committees, and brought it to the Supreme Council on May 1st, or what term it would be, by May 1st.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u238	Olinik Svetoslav Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u239	Can I go for Oily? Rebecca Alexander, I hit the wrong button, okay?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u240	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u241	I have a question for you, Mr. Oleg. Tell me, first of all, who forced you to go to the rostrum and mislead the entire society. You, who were not on the committee when you introduced your law, you, who in three years' time worked on the bill, never took part in a working group meeting, in dozens of round tables and discussions on this law. And for you, June 11th, Ukraine took the first powerful step towards overcoming real corruption. For ten years, Ukraine has taken this step, three years on the committee, 600 proposals that do not have any of yours, 85 percent with all scientists, and with society, the law has been passed. Society has accepted this law, the government has already made proposals to the mechanisms for its work.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u242	Complete the question, please, in a concise manner.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u243	I want you to be honest. And I'll tell you all, she'll be "no" while she's working! Come on, everybody!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u244	Mr. Alexander, thank you for your question. I mean, about who forced me to go to the rostrum. As you can see, no one should force a national deputy to go to the rostrum. We, the committee, were approached by law enforcement officers on the days when you were sick and did not go to committee meetings, were approached by law enforcement officers, and in honor of the direction of God that came and said: “Sorry, boys, but to this day you are giving repressive law and we will do it in the standards that there is. And first of all, this law will beat not the seniors, but the teachers, the accountants, and so on!" So let's work out this bill and then we'll work quietly and work on it normally.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u245	Sit down, Oleg Volodymyrovich. Oleg Volodymyrovich, sit down, please! Let's sign up for a discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u246	Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u247	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies! The bill proposes to postpone the implementation of the Laws on Principles and Prevention and Anti-Corruption, on the responsibility of legal persons for committing corruption offences, and on amending certain Ukrainian legislation on liability for corruption offences adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 11 June 2009 from 1 January 2010 to 1 January 2011. Note that the above-mentioned laws were adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 11 June 2009 on the basis of only a condition, I stress, only if the comments and suggestions are taken into account. However, the vast majority of the comments made to all these bills were unfortunately not taken into account in further work on them and their final adoption. So all three of the above laws are problematic, and the immediate implementation of their provisions can have significant negative consequences. The argument in favour of this position is also that the plenary of the Supreme Court of Ukraine on November 27, 2009, decided to refer to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine with a constitutional application concerning the constitutionality of a series of laws. We therefore consider it appropriate to postpone the entry into force of the laws in question from 1 January 2010 to 1 January 2011 in order to give additional time and opportunity to remedy their shortcomings. And I want to say one more trailer. We must understand the truth that if we blindly copy Western drafts or simply engage in pure plagiarism, sometimes translate them into Russian, into Ukrainian and give the Supreme Council a view, we must understand what they have done for a certain environment. They are not correlated with our legislation in force. They are not correlated with the existing Constitution, and they are totally contrary to both the laws and the Constitution and the very purpose of life. The laws should therefore be made taking into account the specific specificities of Ukrainian legislation and the Ukrainian Constitution. Then I think that the right proposals have been made, and given the proposals made by the Supreme Court of Ukraine, led by Vasily Vasilievich Onopenko, I think that there are also not stupid lawyers who have gathered to postpone the introduction of this law so as not to break trees, but as separate, separate laws. and the individual moments to correct it in order to bring forth the law that awaits society and which will indeed enable the effective fight against corruption in Ukraine. Thank you. Without breaking honest human destiny. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u248	Rebecca Alexander Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u249	Dear colleagues! I had the privilege of standing here for two hours when we passed this law and I was very grateful to you all, not just me, but the entire Ukrainian people, Europe, welcomed us with the fact that we finally took such an important step for every ordinary citizen. I'll tell you that those who spoke today, I know clearly they didn't read this law, because they didn't expect it to come into effect so unexpectedly. Those six months you ask, they've been through. What prevented you from making proposals for six months, as we agreed. But it's not about teaching. It is a matter of great possibilities today that are limited by this law. These are the funds of all government agencies from the administrations to the law enforcement agencies. Hundreds of millions of dollars are coming to such charities today. In terms of correspondence, I'll tell you that the salary of some teachers is five to ten times the salary of a civil servant. So they say that this position needs to be reversed so that it can be taught elsewhere. There is no objection to the adoption and implementation of these laws. They have a society waiting for them. First of all, people are waiting, because we're not allowed into Europe because there are no laws. By adopting these laws, we ratified the UN Convention against Corruption and removed 17 of the 25 warnings by GRECO. Today you want us back in the mud, in corruption. Irja eats our money, all human money. Only corruption on these hills and in this room. With regard to a committee that did not receive a report, only the left side of the room voted on the left side. We have strongly denied any delay. We agreed that the law goes into effect, and we clearly, peacefully react to it by changing it here, in practice, applying it. All of it. Period. Today you want to throw us back and not let us into Europe. Once again, I ask you to be smitten. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u250	Kseniya Mikhailevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u251	Dear colleagues, when we replace the policy of slogans and spells with meaningful policies, everything in the country will be better. I'll share my concerns. When representatives of exactly the same civil society came to me a week ago, which you just said they were waiting for this law, and they said to me, "Ksenia Mikhailna, what have you done in the hall?" We've got accountants all to get out of their jobs today. We don't have to be the founder of a private business today. We have massive interference with the private sector today. I didn't believe them. I said, there can't be such a thing in the room, because we fought corruption. So we were supposed to fight compatibility in public offices, we were supposed to be limited to those who work in the public sector. And they showed me the law, and they showed me with a letter and a figure that you and I, your respectable colleagues, have made a profound mistake and we've intervened with you into a completely unconstitutional sphere, we've intervened in the private sector, where there's nothing to do with corruption. Because if a person has set up two small businesses at a cost without any government money, thank God for giving jobs. And today, if this law becomes effective on January 1st, a militiaman will come to it and make a report on corruption. And when the police now warn that these are repressive methods, they know what they are warning, they are forced and obliged to make such protocols. Do you think they'll come to the clerk? No, it's not. Because from what you and I have accepted, your esteemed colleagues, for example, may be able to reconcile your status as an assistant to a national deputy with a paid position with a private business. For example, an accountant in a private enterprise with an accountant in another private enterprise cannot reconcile. So you're saying we didn't wash up? When I saw all this, I was scared, my friends. We don't watch what we vote for. Dishonor in principle of the Supreme Council. Regrettably, I think that the profile committee should have been much better suited to its professional work. We didn't see through. We didn't get a lot of standards for both commissions and the private sector. But I'm proposing that we postpone this law, put these laws into effect, not for a year, but for three months. Which, I'm sure, we can eliminate all of these inadequacies and all of these overlaps, and all these mistakes, frankly legislative errors that were assumed. Just work hard in three months. And then all of the positives that the colleagues talked about will become effective in 2010. But we'll get rid of the negatives. That's my offer. Please take her into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u252	Arjev Vladimir Igorovich
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u253	Dear colleagues! Please tell me, are we even going to fight corruption or not? Are we making a run for it? We showed everyone that we could pass the law. But when the time comes for this law to enter into force, what, are we all hiding in the bush? Because a little bit more wants something. Please tell me, if even if these bills were drafted by a member of the Giga Regional Party, then worked on them, worked on them on a committee to combat organized crime and corruption, they were worked on by advisers, including international ones. Experts appreciated this bill as one of the best in Europe. Please tell me, why are you taking away your colleague's work now? Why are you doing this?Oh, my God! What we're going to tell people today who suffer from corruption every day. They suffer because they cannot legally resolve their questions, for they are being torn away by terrible money. Each time, they almost shed tears in the corridors of power. And today, instead of finally making the shock reform anti-corruption, we're going to defer. I realize that in this room today a lot of people don't want to fight corruption because they use it. Some go to war with corruption, but I don't know if it's with or against corruption. But what's happening today, I see that they go to war with corruption and corruption. I understand that this law today is absolutely, I would say, an unweighted majority, but it will be adopted. So let's at least take one month off -- my offer. I will demand that he not be accepted in general today. All necessary adjustments can be made within a month, but normal adjustments can be made. And let us not embarrass ourselves as a higher legislature before the whole world, the Supreme Council, and let us not embarrass Ukraine, which today is one of the most corrupt, unfortunately, countries in the world. Let's fight corruption instead of propaganda, otherwise today's vote will show who we are.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m0.u254	The morning plenary session is closed. Alexander Donnie will be the first to speak after the adjournment of the evening session.
