ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:03:36]] Cards were registered in the 411 national deputies’ session hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues! The delay in opening the evening session is due to the fact that we held meetings of the Conciliation Board on issues that require harmonization and the creation of a single position for it to be demonstrated in the session hall. I have to tell you that tomorrow we will also continue the Conciliation Council meeting, because there are a number of sensitive issues with which the Supreme Council should come out in a single position. The draft Law on the State Privatisation Programme for 2008-2012 is being announced for consideration. [[third reading]] Reporter: Head of Economic Policy Committee Bondar Alexander Mikolayovich Alexander Mikolaiovich! If you don't mind, I'd like to brief you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u2	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! For consideration by the Supreme Council, the draft State Privatization Programme for 2009-2913 is presented in the third reading. I want to remind you of the story of the adoption of this bill. Last time he was voted by the majority of the Supreme Council in second reading, but unfortunately not voted in general. Therefore, according to the Rules, he was sent to the Third Reading Committee of the Economic Policy Committee for final approval by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The third reading bill received 12 suggestions, one of which was rejected, the other included in whole or in part. The proposals taken into account are aimed at strengthening the control of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on privatization processes, bringing the standards of the programme into line with the Act on Shareholders and the comments taken into account by the Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I would like to stress once again the importance of this bill for economic reform, in general, for the situation in the economy that is complex. Today, there is an outdated text of the State Privatization Programme 2000, which has had many complaints, including from national deputies, who unfortunately have been used in recent years for some kind of abuse in the privatization process. There are two such points that are eliminated in the new text of the program, which are of a principled nature. The new text only holds open auction competitions, which have been demonstrated on the reselling of the “Criminals”. Secondly, it is forbidden for the Holding Fund to even introduce additional conditions in the contests, which in fact determined the winner in advance of the competition. There is no such right now. And it's a very principled position, too, that prohibits the Fund from stopping, declaring, or changing the terms of the contests on its own. Now the holding fund can do so only after the court’s decision has gained legal power. I believe that this text of the State Privatization Programme is not ideal, but it meets the current demands for Ukrainian privatization and will have very positive consequences for Ukraine's image among the world's societies. You know, there was a very positive assessment of the open competition held by the Holding Fund. I ask the MPs to approach this bill and vote on this text, which is needed to deal with the financial crisis in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u3	Thank you. Dear colleagues! On the third reading, there were 12 amendments. Eleven of them are counted. Not one amendment, 11th, Yuri Carmazin. Yuri Anatolyevich insists on this amendment? Well, then we have every reason to support the committee's decision and to adopt this document, not about specific enterprises, but about methodological principles, about approaches to privatization. Yes, Alexander Mikolaiovich? Dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues! I'm asking for your attention. We have already considered this law. They took him out for a third reading. So I am now voting on the proposal for a committee to adopt the entire draft Law on the State Privatisation Programme for 2008-2012, registration number 2330. Are you ready to vote, Your Honor? Please vote. Please vote. [[16:10:41]] For 212 Two thousand, oh, for minus 212, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, 212. The decision is not taken. Please make a proposal to the committee. What kind of reading should I send to?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u4	I don't know, according to the Rules, there doesn't seem to be any room for any more reading. I can only express a sad impression of what happened because there is now an existing program that is imperfect and which is worse than what we have proposed. I can't offer anything else.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u5	Dear colleagues, let me do this. I'm going to put the third reading back on the vote. And the Supreme Council, if it doesn't support it, will mean that the bill is finally rejected. That's why I'd like to ask your respectable colleagues. That's right. They asked for it. Dear colleagues, well, I'm asking you not to go back to this bill after the Conciliation Council meeting. Let us make a final decision. I am voting on the return to the draft Law on the State Privatisation Programme 2008-2012. [[Registration number 2330]] Please vote. [[16:12:21]] For 216 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. The factions? Please. Region Party – 0, “Club of Timoshenko” – 154, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” – 42, Communists – 0, “Block of Lithuania” – 20. Dear colleagues, the draft Law on Local Taxes and Congregations is being discussed. The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, Terjehin Anatoliyovich. Please make suggestions to the committee for this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u6	Dear National Deputies, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Tax-Mite Policy, prepared for the second reading of the draft Law on Local Taxes and Congregations, which was submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers and adopted at the first reading on December 24, last year. The text of the bill was adopted in the first reading, as you recall, sparked much discussion. In connection with this committee, public hearings were organized and held on January 20, this year to discuss its main positions with the participation of national deputies, the public, small and medium - size business subjects, trade unions, and representatives of executive authorities and local self - government. As a result of the public hearings, five working groups were formed with the participation of the selected representatives. The meetings were held in all working groups, and they were held repeatedly. I would like to stop at the conceptual principles of what is being prepared on the second reading. It is proposed that local taxes and congregations be included: taxes on parking places of transport; taxes on immovable property, real estate, land, land, or land taxes; fees for trading patents for certain types of business activities; advertising; a tourist congregation; a market congregation; and a market congregation. All these taxes are presented in separate articles and are offered for consideration. However, 168 rights have been passed to this bill. There's a note by the Supreme Council's Chief Legal Authority on page 9. That's why the committee, in order not to slow down the process of further drafting this law and to synchronize this process with the budget committee that is working, you know, now that changes to the Budget Code have been made with regard to the local budgets and subsidies policy, we now propose, without considering the right to send this bill back to the second reading, to create a joint working group with the Committee on Budgets to reconcile all issues of the resource part of the local budgets with the regulation of the local budgets themselves. The alternative is to go after these 168 revisions right now, and it's clear that we're not going to make any decisions. Working groups are working. There are representatives of all without excluding the factions of the Supreme Council, so the request to vote in favour of sending the document back for a second reading throughout the entire text. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u7	Honorary colleagues, the committee, and the Chief Legal Authority suggest that the second reading be rereaded and that the Supreme Council of Ukraine be brought to the attention after further processing. Instead, Ukraine’s national deputy Vasil Kiselov proposes that the results of the vote on the bill be abolished as of 24.12.2008. Therefore, honourable colleagues, such a proposal: to support the request of the Committee and the Chief Legal Authority and to entrust the committee in strict terms to work with the comments of the Chief Executive, to synchronize with the draft new edition of the Budget Code, and to submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for consideration. There are no warnings about such an offer? I request your attention, and I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please vote. [[16:17:04]] For 211 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, now we have to go after each of the 168 amendments, so we'd better not break this law, but send it back to the committee, otherwise we won't go to the search. Please, Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u8	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! In accordance with the Rules, you have done everything right: the proposal to repeat the second reading. If it does not receive support, the Rules state that such a law is rejected. And we will treat you perfectly, fairly, if we support the millions of people who will be affected by this dragon law. How much longer to finish? He was accepted and handed over, and the Cabinet of Ministers handed him over in December. In March the committee was already ready to report that it was ready to skin off further, especially from a private owner and from those standing on so - called markets today and selling something to earn a piece of bread. That's why the decision was made -- it's rejected. There are no other options.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u9	Thank you. Please, Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u10	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! I'm willing to sign and I think the faction of the Party of Regions is every word of what Adam Ivanovich said. We are indeed this law, by enacting this law we will turn to asphalt and small business and entrepreneurship. We'll never get out of this crisis in three Soviet five years. Therefore, with a purely procedurally correct law is not voted on, he is buried. Let us move forward on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u11	Yuri Carmazin. Dear colleagues, we need to find a solution. Because if by the Rules, it's the right thing to do. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u12	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! I would not recommend asking questions today about local taxes and congregations and saying that they should be buried. Who among you is in cities, towns, villages, villages, and villages knows that this law is to this day. Another question is how much and who he's going to hit or who he's going to give. In any case, he'd give the city's community and the local community some benefits. I spoke to Mayor Odessa yesterday. Serious lack of funds, serious. There's a way to find them. They need to be found. All they want to do is make popular decisions. And, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, to you. In order to bury the laws, as our colleague has now expressed, all the amendments must be made. Then they're buried. Otherwise, you have to ask the question of rereading the second reading, who's in charge. No, then let's go.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u13	Honorable colleagues of Jury Anatoliyovich, the fact is that if we follow the Rules strictly, the committee suggested that we send the second reading again. If the Supreme Council of Ukraine did not support it, it means that it refused to consider the bill, and it was buried in the common language. At the same time, I'm addressing the distinguished national MPs, and I'm saying that this is the result of not just the committee's work. The Advisory Council on Local Self - Rule at the Supreme Council of Ukraine worked. And we got offers from them. This is a joint document. Since there is still a point made by the Chief Legal Authority, we would do well to send our esteemed colleagues, despite political disapproval and economic disagreements with the provisions of this law, to reread the second reading, and that would be respect for the Association of Local Self - Rule. That was their offer, and then we would have made a final decision with a final document. At the same time, I'd like to send him back to the Advisory Board at your request so that we don't start work from scratch. So the request to you, if you would support me, I'm going to put the vote on the return to this bill, and then send it back to the second reading and send it to places: the District Council and the Advisory Council on Local Self-Government Issues, and the Association on Self-Government. And that would be right, that would be a normal, respectable approach! So I'm asking you to support this proposal. May I have your attention, please? I am voting for a return to the draft law, registration number 3532, local taxes and congregations. Please vote. And then we'll send it back to read again. [[16:22:28]] For 213 The decision is not supported. The bill was rejected. Let's move on to the next question. This is a draft of the General Principles for the Development of State-Private Partnership in Ukraine. Rereading the first reading. Reporter to the Committee on Industrial Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, Royal Natalia Juryivna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u14	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! The Industrial Policy and Enterprise Committee considered Bill 3447, set up a working group on a committee involving international experts, people's deputies from various committees and jointly finalized the bill. It must be said that this bill is revolutionary enough, we all know that Ukraine is now not easy and the crisis requires our country to modernize and improve the competitiveness, competitiveness of our economy, but where to take additional funds. Today, we have the resources to invest in those enterprises that have not been modernized for decades. Of course, the State has little or no investment, and we will not be able to put the enterprise in order for decades to come. Public-private partnership is the answer to a question that everyone is concerned about how to overcome the crisis and the backlog of the economically developed countries, as well as how to emerge stronger and more competitive after the crisis. Public-private partnerships are an acceptable mechanism for Ukraine's interaction of power and business. In a public-private partnership, a private participant invests in the modernization of the facility, then gains in the use of the facility, but unlike privatization, the facility remains fully State-owned. For we have already burned in our country, when businesses have sold for kopecks and since their price has risen tenfold over time, the State has had no relation to this enterprise and has just lost property. The public-private partnership instrument is very widely used in the world and it is a truly mutually beneficial alliance capable of raising whole industries today, investing money on socially meaningful facilities and infrastructure. And of course we cannot forget here the Euro-2012 and the number of infrastructure facilities that we need to create today to make our country look decent in the world. The Committee has therefore considered the bill and proposes that it be adopted on first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u15	Dear colleagues, the committee's proposal is well known. There is a need to discuss this law, this is a re-reading of the first reading, are we going to vote? Please sign up, insist on the performances, please. Please put the names of the people's deputies on the board. Alexy Plotnikov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u16	Dear Head, honourable national deputies, this is in principle a good law, it is really in line with the relevant legislation of countries with developed market economies, countries of the European Union. So from this point of view, there's a relationship between the state or some kind of territorial community and private governance structures, which allows for some support for private economic activity. Regarding the shortcomings of this law, unfortunately, the operation of general principles is proposed to extend only a small part of the relationship between the state and business. But given that there was no such law before, given that once again this law is correlated with the legislation of developed countries with market economies, there is a proposal to support this bill. And take it as a foundation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u17	Alla Alexandrovi faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u18	Dear colleagues! I mistakenly pressed the "for" button, but I will oppose this bill. And I ask you to support my position. The fact is that virtually nothing in this bill is given to ensure that there is any guarantee of genuine cooperation between the State and private business. This refers to general provisions, and it is true that the legal basis is both the Civil Code and the Economic Code and the Constitution of Ukraine. Indeed, those laws were sufficient to resolve State and business relations. Other countries have normal relationships. However, Ukraine is very different from other countries because we have corruption, which is a major disaster that today does not allow for an equal partnership in the field of production, in the economic sphere for enterprises of different forms of ownership. But there was something else that warned me. It is practically stated that the actual return on the investor will still be achieved only by raising the cost of services. In fact, in terms of concessions, the people of Ukraine will be paid again with higher tariffs, higher prices. There is no indication here that the State will indeed be getting better at this activity, that it will be built on new principles and that this will reduce the cost of services or goods. There are no such principles. And this is the main trouble of this bill. I mean, unfortunately, he's not specifically talking about anything. I say once again that we have the Economic Code, we have the Civil Code, we have the concessions Act, we have other legal acts that allow us to regulate the activities of our budget, our State and private business. Therefore, this law does not make sense and I propose not to vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u19	Yuri Carmazin faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u20	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! There is certainly a project on the general principles of public private partnership and things that need to be worked out. This is also a third article that says that only on competitive grounds is the private partner’s principle. What, though, if there is one participant, how can we make a covenant? Obviously, these things need to be corrected. It is clear that the Cabinet of Ministers is not necessarily supposed to be itself a participant, but it has the right to delegate decisions on the implementation of a public private partnership for small objects to other public authorities. Obviously the MPs who introduced this bill were both Royal and Casqueev and Liapina and Chechetov, Akimov, Voropeyev, Kolesnikov, who introduced these projects, and they wanted to see a little bit differently, and the article 20 where it was about guaranteeing the rights of private partners. Obviously it's exactly the same as in the case where we've just decided not to play the game business. We've done everything perfectly right, but there's only one thing we haven't predicted today that we can pay people back for these licenses and so on, that the state should take responsibility for making its political decisions, although I emphasize that we've made the right political decision. So this law has yet to be completed, very seriously completed, including with regard to the powers of the central executive body on matters of state law partnership, private partnership. I don't think such an organ should be created, that it should be within the boundaries of the Mineconomy, and that we should be able to create additional special organs of the central executive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u21	Thank you. Finish, please. Dear colleagues, the draft law has been discussed. The committee's offering to take it as a basis. A proposal for a committee to adopt is put to the vote on the basis of the draft Law on the General Principles for the Development of a State Private Partnership in Ukraine. Registration number 3447-D. Please vote. [[16:31:44]] For 316 Decision taken. A draft Law on Extinguishing the Memory of Persons Killed as a result of War and Political Repression is being considered. Rapporteur: Minister of Justice of Ukraine – Onichuk Mikola Vasilovich, co-rapporteur of the Committee on Construction of Urban Building, Housing and Regional Policy Popov Alexander Pavlovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u22	Thank you. Reverend Head, distinguished national MPs! The Ukrainian government is proposing to consider the draft Law on Extinguishing the Memory of Persons Who Die as a result of War or Political Repression. The current legislation deals with these issues on a case-by-case basis, individual norms and comprehensive system-wide regulation of an important sphere of social relations, unfortunately, is not yet secure. This draft law, in our view, solves this problem and, in particular, proposes a clear legislative framework. First. Among those to whom this law applies, that is, those who are to be remembered are those who are subject to eternal and veneration who have died as a result of wars and political repression, and who have established the basic forms of such perpetuation. Let me take a brief look at the setting up of, among other things, the restoration of memorial buildings, memorial signs, other objects that perpetuate the memory of the dead. The organization and maintenance of separate sites historically related to individuals who are eternally remembered, the introduction of state burial sites, the introduction of information about the dead into the Book of Memory, the Book of Grieves, Marquis, and other publications, the introduction into the permanent list of personal compositions of military compounds, parts, ships of the Armed Forces, and other military formations of the names of those who have been killed. Publishing in teaching literature and in the media about the dead, creating appropriate exhibitions in museums devoted to the loss of art. The draft Law also provides for the imposition on the State’s executive bodies, one of these bodies, of the functions of the State. And the adoption of this law will also ensure our international obligations to perpetuate the memory of those who have died in wars and who have suffered political repression.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u23	Please finish. You all have it, don't you?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u24	Yeah, I'm done. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u25	Dear colleagues, the Minister's report has been completed. Please take the seat of the committee. Alexander Pavlovich, please, Popov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u26	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! On September 3, 2008, our Committee on Construction, Urban, Housing and Regional Policy reviewed the draft law that is currently being considered. During his consideration of the committee, there were materials that we received from the Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and other committees of the Supreme Council. What I'm saying is that the observations that were made by the Supreme Council's Scientific and Scientific Administration, nine of them. And they're really important. Some of them refer to such observations as the lack of alignment of the bill with the current legislation of Ukraine. Because it contains separate positions that duplicate existing standards. This is the case with respect to the forms of honouring the memory of the dead in the article of the Ukrainian law on the perpetuation of victory in the Great Homeland War 1941 - 45 and the Act of the Ukraine on the Holodomor 1932 - 33 years. The Scientific and Experimental Authority concluded that, as a result of the first reading of the bill, it was appropriate to send for further work on conclusions, observations and proposals. Considering that at that time we had proposals from committees, including the Committee on Legal Policy, on Budget, on Culture and Spirituality, these committees expressed a positive opinion on the adoption of this bill in the first reading, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that it be considered in the first reading, adopted on the basis and elaborated in preparation for consideration for the second reading. My personal opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u27	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u28	That the scientific expertise's observation, they're essential, and it would be appropriate, really, to work on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u29	Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for the bill. It's a recording. Please put the names of the people's deputies on the board. Eugene Kirilchuk, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u30	Thank you. You know, honourable colleagues, not so long ago in the village of Pavlovitch of the Lekachinsky region on Volina, locals have preceded our law: they have gathered in the territory of the village council the name of everyone who died in World War I, in World War II, in other battles, regardless of which side, because they are all people who lived in this territory. A beautiful monument was made, printed, destroyed, and sanctified, and this is a story for our descendants. As a result, no one can forget about this monument. And the law, even when it's being developed, has to be adopted.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u31	Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u32	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! Right now, we were reminiscing the memory of those who died as a result of the war and as a result of recent political repression in May. And is this law subject to regulation by itself or not? When I first met him, I became acquainted with the idea that it was obviously difficult to find such a subject. Now I see it clearly, as defined in article 9, where it is written about the forms of the eternal memory of the dead, and there is a list of all forms. I'm not counting them, I'm counting them. The following is the question of who today in the state can perform this function. This is an important function today in a state at the level of no one to perform. There are amateurs, there are political parties, there are social associations. This must be done by the Institute of National Memory of the Ukrainian People, and it must be. So these are just the things that are provided for in article 5, which are a specially authorized central organ. We have to say that we don't create any other special organ, that is, no ministry, no intelligence, and this Institute of Memory has these functions that essentially do this. Next. Now let's see what's keeping us from duplicating. Those laws that we now have on the subject of memory perpetuation. The victims of famine, the law of famine. 32-33, or the law on perpetuating victory in the Great Homeland War, they don't say anything about these forms, they don't say anything about the books that are proposed in the 10th article to make the Book of the Memory of Ukraine, the Book of the Griefs of Ukraine and so on, and the state accounts. And we need to adopt this law because it is extremely important.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u33	Yes, the People's Deputy Pisarczuk is transferring the right to speak to Vadim the Wheeler, a faction of the Party of the Regions. Get ready, Demyanchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u34	Dear colleagues, what the author of the humanitarian bill offers us, which is made up of Yulia Timoshenko himself. This is the man who, literally a few days ago, laid flowers on the tombs of fallen soldiers of the Red Army, who uttered a pompous speech of gratitude to the heroes who protected the planet from the fascists. An attempt to heroize Fascist aids, collaborators from the UN-OPA, who shot Jews, Russians and their compatriots, is behind the recruitment of empty, template proposals of the bill. This is the original UN-OPA poster, which was distributed in 1941 - 1942. Here specific so-called national liberation heroes called for the destruction of Jews, communists, Russians and Ukrainians. I believe that this is obviously a bill where they are quietly trying to extend the question of the heroization of collaborators, traitors to the people of Ukraine, in order to make them heroes of Ukraine and to implement the vile and treacherous policies of President Yushchenko. I propose that this bill should not be supported in any way, because the issues relating to heroization, the protection of the memory of the heroes of the Great Homeland War, they are today, and we must only refine and develop a mechanism. But this story and the original of this poster is stored in the office of the Party of the Regions, and no one is going to cross it out. And we will not allow the people to be heroized by Bandera, Shuhević and other bloody supporters of Ukrainian fascist nationalists, in the form of a struggle for the heroic memory of the great Soviet, Russian and Ukrainian memory. We will not vote in favour of this bill as long as there are issues relating to the specificization of the heroization of fascist accomplices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u35	Demyanchuk, a national deputy, hands over the right to speak to Peter Cibenko, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u36	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! Communist faction, Peter Cibenko, head of the Ukrainian Veterans Council You know, it's not the first time we've considered this issue, and it's not the first time that the Cabinet of the Ministers of Ukraine has submitted this bill to the Supreme Council. A few things I'd like to draw your attention to. Well, first of all. Dear Minister, you do not know that the legislative basis for this problem is not only the three laws that you have mentioned but also the Law on Victims of Nazi Persecution and the Law on Rehabilitation of Victims of Political Repression. This is the first time. Secondly, you know, this document proposes to introduce the Book of Grief and start in the '20s, '30s. Dear colleagues, how many can you go through in the '20s, '30s? I have another offer. Let us begin by introducing the Book of Griefs for those citizens of Ukraine who lost their lives under this orange regime. The latest census of Soviet time in 1989 revealed that there were 52.5 million citizens in Soviet Ukraine, less than 46 today. Where were the seven million citizens of Ukraine divided? This requires a “book of tribulation. ” One more. You know, in every article, behind every single dot, there's a so-called National Memory Institute behind each dot, and I'd say a National Memory Institute. Because these caveats of Soviet history, the stories of our parents and grandparents are only looking for one thing -- the flaws that would hinder them, allowing something to be rescinded. The faction of the Ukrainian Company will not vote in favour of this document and will invite all MPs not to vote in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u37	Dear colleagues, the discussion of the draft Law on Extinguishing the Memory of Persons Killed as a result of Wars and Political Repressions has been completed. The committee's offering to take it as a basis. The conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office: The bill is intended to be sent for pre-production, i.e. for re-reading. I put to the vote the first sentence, the proposal by the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Law, on the perpetuation of the memory of those who died as a result of wars and political repression. [[Registration number 2509]] To be accepted as a basis. [[16:45:55]] For 221 The decision is not taken. I'm voting on a second proposal. Regarding the drafting of the Act on the Eradication of the Memory of Persons Killed as a result of War and Political Repression. Registration number 2509. [[16:46:28]] For 240 The law is aimed at rereading the first reading. The factions, please. Region Party – 1, Timoshenko Yulia Block – 154, "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" – 68, Communist faction – 0, "Litvina Block" – 18. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Military Duty and Military Service is being announced for consideration. [[on military reserve service]] Rapporteur: Chief of General Staff, Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of Ukraine Kirichenko Sergey Aleksandrovich, co-rapporteur of the National Security and Defence Committee, Anatoly Stepanovich Grizenko. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u38	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! In Ukraine’s Armed Forces, the deployment of military forces continues. During the years 2006-07, an appropriate legal framework was established, an experiment was conducted to test certain procedures and conditions of service by reserves, methods and forms of their preparation. During the period 2007-08, some 1,700 reserve personnel were prepared for 36 military units. According to the Ukrainian Armed Forces State Programme 2006-11, the number of reserve personnel should be 8,000 by the end of 2011. At the same time, in the course of the implementation of the service in the military reserve, separate rules of the law of Ukraine, other legal and regulatory acts that need to be clarified were found, first of all, with regard to a clearer definition of the status of the reserve, its rights, obligations, and the order and conditions of the military service. Therefore, the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine has drafted a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Military Obligation, the military service to which it is intended, first, to demarcate the status of military and reserve personnel. Militaryly bound troops are called upon to join the military forces, and reserve personnel are required to attend the training congregations voluntarily. The term “supply” is added to the military's titles and the word “supply” is added to the military's reserve. Secondly, to create more favourable conditions for the provision of reserve services by standardizing their preparation in educational assemblies. Thirdly, extend the statutes of the Ukrainian Armed Forces to the reserve.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u39	Let me finish. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u40	Fourthly, extend the categories of Ukrainian citizens who may be admitted to service to the military reserve. The proposed changes are intended to take up service in the military reserve of all categories of military-bound, including the military - bound second category. Ukraine's law is in conformity with the Constitution, it's not against the law. The conclusion of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, the bill can be adopted on the first reading as a basis. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u41	Thank you, please sit down. Mr. Gricenko Anatoly Stepanovich, head of the National Security and Defence Committee. Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u42	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, our committee unanimously supported this document and asked the Supreme Council to support it in its first reading. It is aimed at legislative regulation of a new type of reserve, a voluntary reserve, not one that has been known since Soviet times, and which, in case of need, will have to be looked far beyond Ukraine. It is a voluntary reserve under contract on an appropriate paid basis with serious training in prescribed military units. Therefore, the request to support this document will help the Armed Forces to actually compile the spare component. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u43	Dear colleagues! If there's no objection, maybe we should put it to a vote and take it as a basis. Is there an insistence there? I am voting for the adoption on the basis of draft law, registration number 3340, amending the Ukrainian Military and Military Service Act on military reserve service. Please vote. [[16:51:41]] For 391 Decision taken. The draft Act amending article 29 of the Ukrainian Law on Military Duty and Military Service is being announced for consideration. The rapporteur is Chief of Staff, Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of Ukraine Kirichenko Sergey Aleksandrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u44	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! In order to implement legal and regulatory instruments in accordance with the requirements of the Ukrainian Act on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine has drafted a draft Act amending article 29 of the Ukrainian Law on Military Duty and Military Service. The aim of the changes is to settle the issue of the annual definition of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of the number of military-related persons to be involved in educational assemblies and the extent to which they are financed at the expense of the state budget of Ukraine. The implementation of the stated Ukrainian Law enhances the role of the Cabinet of Ministers in strengthening the state’s defence. The adoption of this law does not require any additional allocation of resources from the State budget. The draft law is in agreement with all interested central executive authorities. The comments that came are taken into account. The Ministry of Justice, as a result of legal expertise, has concluded that the draft law is consistent with the Constitution of Ukraine and does not conflict with legislation. The draft law was discussed and approved at a meeting of the Supreme Council Committee on National Security and Defence. Please support the bill. Thanks for the weight!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u45	Thank you, Sergey Alexanderovich! Have a seat, please. Anatoly Stepanovich, please make the decision of the committee on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u46	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! This document is also unanimously supported by the members of our committee and the request to the Supreme Council to support it in the first reading. It could be in the second, but there is one point that we have made, since it is stipulated by this law that the number of military personnel who are going to be called into training congregations is determined by Kabmin. Although our law, adopted in the sixth year, gave even more authority to the Ministry of Defense when officers were summoned to reserve the minister's decisions. Therefore, committee members believe that this change will have to be made before the second reading and delegated from the Cabinet to the Ministry of Defence. Asking for support in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u47	Dear colleagues! Is the committee's proposal understood? If there is no objection, there is no insistence, let's take it as a basis and allow the committee to work on it. No warning? It is on the basis of the draft Act amending article 29 of the Ukrainian Law on Military Duty and Military Service. Registration number 3644. Please vote. [[16:54:58]] For 398 Decision taken. There's probably something the MPs know about. Dear colleagues! A draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation in connection with Ukraine’s accession to the Convention on Temporary Imports is being announced for consideration. Registration number 2142. Reporter of Deputy Minister of Economics Valerius Teziyovich Friday. The co-narrator will be Head of the Committee, Terjehohin Sergey Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u48	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! With the adoption of the Ukrainian Law of March 24, 2004, number 1661, Ukraine joined the Convention on Temporary Imports and Supplements, which was signed on June 26, 1990, in Istanbul. This convention provides for a simplified procedure for the handling of goods, such as the temporary introduction of a unified international customs document of the ATA book or other Carnet-ATA, which is accepted as a customs declaration, allows for the identification of goods and contains an international valid guarantee for the payment of import duties and taxes. Standardized ATA documents for temporary importation as international customs documents for international guarantee are now being applied in 66 countries. To date, Ukraine's Customs Code and Ukraine's Goods Transit Act, which regulates the import or export of goods, including transit across Ukraine's customs borders, do not contain provisions for the carriage of goods under the temporary entry convention using the ATA Carnet. In this regard, a draft Law amending certain legislative acts in connection with the accession to the temporary importation convention has been prepared to bring legislative acts into line with the international convention. The implementation of the draft bill will promote international trade and allow operators to simplify themselves according to convention regulations, and the arrangements for the processing of goods temporarily imported, exported or transited. The bill is in line with the objective of adapting Ukraine's legislation to international standards and standards. Please support this bill in the first reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u49	Yeah, are you all right or something? All of it. Thank you, please. Sergey Anatolyovich Teryohin's decision committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u50	Thank you. On March 11, the Supreme Council Committee on Tax and Customs Policy considered the proposed Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts in connection with the association with the Convention on Temporary Imports. The Convention on Temporary Imports, the Istanbul Convention, took effect in 1993. It provides for the application of a system of harmonised simplified customs procedures through the use of the single Carnet-ATA international customs document. The ATA system is used by almost 60 countries and allows the use of a standard customs document to replace national customs declarations and identify goods temporarily imported or exported or exported from customs territory of countries that are parties to the Convention. During the discussion by the Ukrainian National Deputies, the committee noted that the adoption of the bill would create favourable conditions for temporary dutyless imports of goods by removing obstacles in the formulation of the customs declaration. The main scientific and expert office says that the bill can be taken as a basis. Taking into account the above, the committee at its meeting decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that it adopt a draft amending some of Ukraine’s legislative acts in connection with its accession to the Convention on Temporary Imports as a basis. However, after further negotiations with government representatives, we propose to adopt this bill both on the basis and in general. It's small, it introduces after a while this special Carnet-ATA, but it's very important to our transporters and carriers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u51	Dear colleagues, is it a problem to discuss this bill? Is it? Please sign up. It's a recording. Please put the names of the people's deputies on the board. Jaroslav Suhi. Jaroslav Mikhailovich, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u52	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues! Well, you see, in principle, it's not bad, because it's a reduced procedure. But there are a number of bills that would necessarily, well, be possible, you would have to ask questions and get answers. This bill, it makes very technical changes. And you can certainly vote for it as a whole. On the right hand side, I'll show you an example, for example, of the VAT company "Motor-Sitch". When we import aircraft engines, when they import aircraft engines for repairs, and then they export back, well, clearly, it's perfectly clear that we can't pay for both the import and the export. Adherence to this Convention will allow these changes to limit the double taxation of export-oriented machinery companies. By the way, that's the same thing as the Sumo IPO name Frunze. Restraint engines and French compressors. They also import equipment for technical inspection and repair. The same applies, for example, to transformers produced in Ukraine, exported and imported for technical inspection and repair. And there's a lot of other technology that we're producing, that we're then being brought back to improve, repair or just technical care. So I think that this bill can be supported, it will contribute to the state level of support of a domestic producer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u53	Adam Martinyuk, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u54	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Indeed, at times it is a pity that we follow a cumbersome procedure because we should ask questions and cannot ask them. I don't think you have a question about the fact that this temporary import convention was signed in Istanbul in 1990. 1990! Why have we waited 20 years, and why have we decided to use this convention today? Where have we been for 20 years? It's very difficult for me, once again, to decide how to vote for this bill, if there's such a discrepancy: 20 years have not responded to this convention, 21st have decided to respond. There's probably something not quite as we're told. And so if we could ask the rapporteurs if they could explain to us what this convention was all about, if they would explain why they hadn't used this convention for 20 years and now they were using it, then we would have made a conscious decision. And so I would like to request, Vladimir Mikhailovich, a violation of the Rules before the vote. Let the reporters answer these questions, then we will know how to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u55	Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. The committee proposes to adopt the draft law as a basis. Then I put a motion to the vote. Please withdraw the vote. Sergei Teryohin, microphone, please. Take down the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u56	Adam Ivanovich, you're just in a punch today. I've noticed you more, you know. The only thing I would like to point out is that the Istanbul Convention came into force in 93, not 90, and we joined it in 2004. So you ask the correct question, but not in 20 years, but in 5.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u57	Dear colleagues, with these clarifications in mind, we have identified all positions, so I am voting on the basis of the draft Law amending some of Ukraine’s legislative acts in connection with Ukraine’s accession to the Convention on Temporary Importation. Registration number 2142. Please vote. [[17:04:10]] For 395 Decision taken. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a law. No warning? I can't see. Therefore, I am voting on the proposal for adoption in the second reading and in general as a bill of the Law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts in connection with Ukraine’s accession to the Convention on Temporary Importation. Registration number 2142. Please vote. [[17:04:55]] For 402 The law is passed. Dear colleagues, your attention is on the proposal of a bill amending the Ukrainian Insurance Act. [[about Silgosprises]] The rapporteur is Head of the State Commission for the Regulation of Financial Services Markets, Victor Ivanovich Suslov. Correspondent is the head of the Committee on Finance and Banking's subcommittee, Alexander Ivanovich Klimenko. Please, Victor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u58	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is introducing a draft law amending the Ukrainian Insurance Act for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[on agricultural risks]] The point of the problem is that there was a conflict between the two laws in force. According to the Ukrainian Law on Insurance, agricultural risk insurance is a compulsory form of insurance. At the same time, in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Agriculture, agricultural risk insurance should be carried out in voluntary form. It is therefore proposed to amend the U.S. Insurance Act by excluding insurance for agricultural risks from the list of compulsory types of insurance and by adding paragraph 22 prime. [[Article 7]] in article 6, voluntary insurance and its types. The question is technical, possible approval in both the first reading and the final reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u59	Thank you, Victor Ivanovich. Please take the seat of the committee. Alexander Ivanovich Klimenko will speak on this subject.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u60	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! I would like to generally support on behalf of the committee what the rapporteur has just said, and I would like to inform you that, at my meeting, the committee discussed this issue on June 4, 2008. And in general, when considering the proposed draft law, it is primarily the establishment of a new type of voluntary insurance in Ukraine, namely insurance for agricultural risks, including crop insurance for agricultural crops and perennial crops, crop crops and sugar beet crops, as well as farm animals: birds, rabbits, fur animals and so on. It is also proposed to delete article 7, paragraph 11, of the Ukrainian Law on Insurance, which establishes mandatory crop insurance for agricultural crops from long-term plantations by state-owned agricultural enterprises, crop crops, sugar beet crops by agricultural enterprises of all forms of property. In order to stimulate agricultural production and the development of Ukraine’s agricultural sector, the Act on State support for Ukraine’s agriculture provides 50 percent of the cost of practically paid insurance premiums within five percent of the amount of insured premiums. I would also like to emphasize what is also the observation of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. The main point is that the abolition of compulsory insurance is contrary to the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Agriculture. Instead, I would like to point out that the law provides for only the obligation of the manufacturer to be insured as a condition of State support, but it does not specify what form of insurance is to be applied, whether compulsory or voluntary. And the difference between mandatory and voluntary.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u61	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u62	It's only in the form of licenses. So I completely agree with Mr. Souslow. And the decision of our committee is to take it as a foundation and as a whole. Thank you and please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u63	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Please, dear colleagues, I see there are willing to share in the discussion. Please sign up. May I see the names of the national MPs? Katerina Vaschuk, please. It's gonna be okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u64	Dear Head, the Honourable People's Deputies! Katerina Vashuk, “Block of Lithuania”. Indeed, it is a very important question, and it seems that there is a step back in replacing compulsory insurance with voluntary insurance. But considering the situation in the country today and the prices to be paid to the farmer with compulsory insurance, if this law is fulfilled, it can be seen that these are very large costs that are not available today. If we could place 50 percent of the total amount needed for insurance in the State Budget, then we could demand compulsory insurance from the villagers. Today, we place such coins that are very small enough. Therefore, voluntary insurance is a way out of the picture. We will, of course, support and think that where a peasant can do so, where he can do so, where he wants to receive support from the budget in which he will do so. Where this would be deemed unnecessary, it would be risky and not compulsory. This will apply to parts of crops, to areas in animal production, and so forth. So it's up to the farmer himself to question the need to insure the risks of farming in the country. And in today's situation, it's the only way out, or the villagers just don't have enough money. Thank you and I ask you to uphold this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u65	People's deputy Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u66	Please pass the word to Arjevetin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u67	National MP Arjevetin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u68	Dear National Deputies! I listened carefully to the reporters, and I can conclude with confidence that the accent is not quite correct. And in my opinion, if we're going to adopt this bill today as a whole, we're going to take it as a foundation, and in general, we're going to do a bear service to agricultural producers. Why? First of all, this bill is not in line with another bill with which the state provides some State support. And if we remove compulsory insurance, if we are going to do this consciously, we need to understand that such agricultural enterprises will not be able to issue product derivatives, they will not be able to receive a budget grant, or a subsidy. They won't be able to get loans, budget loans, bank loans, and get some compensation. So I suggest that we just look at it in the first reading, and we take it all into account in the second reading. Compulsory voluntary insurance is not prohibited today, nor is it necessary to pass such a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u69	Paul Sulkowski, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u70	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you know, it's very interesting to see events from any draft law. It's written beautifully, we've passed the law, not we, but the so-called 2009 budget coalition, we've said that we're betting on supporting the village, not listening, not voting. Despite the fact that the budget, which was voted on by three factions, the BUT faction, the Lithuanian bloc and part of our Ukraine, was to spend at least half a billion dollars in the first quarter to support the village. What did they do? virtually, Vladimir Mikhailovich, hundreds of millions, has practically mocked the government for supporting the village. And today, once again, the draft law, the good draft law, and Catherine Vaschuk backs up, my colleague, really, normally said, well, Mrs. Catherine, you know very well, you're a witness, like no one who practically does no government, a loser and 10 percent of the budget for what we voted for, to support the peasants. So I don't believe that this project can even be adopted not only in the first, but in general, it's not going to benefit the peasant, it's what it's about. No one is obeying the laws that are adopted today in the Supreme Council. And here's question number one, we need to ask Vladimir Mikhailovich about the situation in the country and about his support from the state, the government report, and immediately, another disaster in the village.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u71	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the bill has been concluded. Please, Catherine Vasuk has the right to reply. I'm the only one who's asking us not to move on to the lines right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u72	Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman, I am grateful that our faction is popularly promoted and, in particular, my first name to a colleague who spoke, I want to say that his speech is the right one, but it has no bearing on this law. This law allows a peasant to choose for himself that the insurance is not to move away from compulsory insurance. And it's not as much here as it's not about the budget, it's about budget support. We are similarly dissatisfied with the situation that today is with the village’s budget. And the faction will say its word on this matter. But it is the law that guards the rights of peasants to choose their own position in terms of insurance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u73	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. I'm just going to make one point: that the 2009 budget was adopted, not by the efforts of three factions, but by four. Dear colleagues! The committee proposes to adopt the draft law as a whole. I am voting on the adoption of the draft law amending the Ukrainian Insurance Act. [[about Silgosprises]] Registration number 3248. Please vote. On the ground, please vote. [[17:17:17]] For 240 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! The committee's proposal agreed to accept the project as a law. Just a minute. Who denies it? There's a denial. So we've adopted the bill as the basis of the committee, and I'm asking you to rework it for the second reading. The draft Law on Lombards and Lombardy Activities has been announced for consideration. Registration number 3433. The rapporteur is Head of the State Commission for Market and Financial Services, Victor Ivanovich Suslov, co-rapporteur of the Committee on Finance and Banking, Klimenko Alexander Ivanovich. Dear colleagues! Attention, the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine continues for 15 minutes to the 18th hour of 15 minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u74	Dear Head, the country's distinguished deputies of Ukraine! The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is introducing a draft Ukrainian Law on Lombards and Lombard Activities for consideration in the first reading. The need to draft a bill is due to a lack of regulation at the level of a special law on the principles of the creation of pawnbrokers and their activities. Today, only the State Commission’s position on financial market regulation is in effect in this area. The approval of this Law will allow for the identification of the concept of pawnshops and pawnshops, the establishment of exclusive activities for pawnshops, the regulation of the introduction of pawnbrokers, the regulation of the conduct of pawnshops for the provision of financial credits and the maintenance of property. The bill also outlines the principles for the creation and operation of voluntary pawnshops. The implementation of the law will result in a clear definition of the location of such financial institutions as pawnbrokers in the economy and the conditions for their conduct, an increase in the level of legislative protection of consumers' rights, and the use of pawnbrokers. Thank you! Please support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u75	Thank you, Victor Ivanovich! Please, Alexander Ivanovich! The committee's decision on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u76	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The Committee on Finance and Banking considered the bill at its meeting on February 11, 2009. And I would like to tell you right now that there are more than three hundred pawnbrokers operating in Ukraine. I would also like to say that the official amount of money they add to their activities today is about one billion dollars. But what about the circumstances when, in the face of a financial crisis and the impossibility of the Roma, they are forced to give up their assets or their valuable assets at a rate of one and a half times their current value, or two and three times their current value? And I would like to fully agree with the reporter that today it is not regulated by a separate law on pawnbrokers, but by the regulations and laws of Ukraine, as a mortgage, as the Civil Code of Ukraine. What will be the first thing that will happen? First of all, it's going to get those funds out of the shadows today, and the regulator is going to be able to fully monitor the company's activities today. I would also like to add that it will primarily regulate and improve the protection of the citizens who use these services. It also ensures that the State has a regulatory control and supervisory function over these pawnbrokers. I would also like to point out that the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority approves the adoption of this law and our committee also proposes that it be adopted in the first reading, and that it should be accepted as a basis for the adoption of this law. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u77	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? Please sign up. May I see the names of the national MPs? Vladimir Stretovich and Alexi Plotnikov Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u78	Volodymyr Stretović Party of the Christian-Democratic Union faction “National Union – Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense”. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the pawnshops have existed for all ages and have quite a long history. Today, 300 pawnbrokers in Ukraine, if this activity is to be legalized. We have just heard a report from the head of the financial and banking subcommittee, Alexander Ivanovich Klimenko, who has professionally informed us that this needs to be supported. So we have no choice but to legitimize what is actually happening in the state. And glory to God at the 18th year of our independence we come to the fact that the pawnbrokers have their own laws, and the citizen has assurances that if he enters into a civil law relationship with the pawnbroker, he has the right to expect to defend his rights. I propose to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u79	Yes, Alexy Plotnikov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u80	Dear Head, the honourable people's deputies are proposing to really support this bill, because there are now a lot of questionable structures in the state that are sometimes called "rombardy" and do whatever it takes, but this cannot be attributed to the understanding that there are indeed lombardies. If you look at this bill, it normalizes this activity, it kind of puts it within a framework, it defines what is a pawnbroker and what they should do, what is the relationship of pawnbrokers to the state, that is, from this point of view, this is a clear definition of the location of this kind of financial institution. As pawnbrokers, his place in relation to the state, at last an object or an object for the commission headed by Mr. Suslov, which is also very important. So there is a proposal to adopt this bill as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u81	Yes, National Deputy Arjevetin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u82	Ladies and gentlemen, this bill really needs to be supported. He will really regulate the activity of pawnbrokers who take their turns but before. There are many shortcomings in this bill that we must consider in our next second reading. Especially is the imposition of restrictions on passive transactions today, which will certainly reduce their activity, and they will become less competitive for banking institutions, including credit unions. I think it would also be logical to impose restrictions on the business reputation of the founders and managers who are professionally involved in pawnshops. This bill makes a contradiction with other entrepreneurship laws, which prohibit the creation of such enterprises with state, municipal property. The services that are licensed are very vaguely prescribed. Therefore, the second reading must take these positions into account. Thank you. In general, support is needed.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u83	Dear colleagues, the discussion of the draft Law on Lombards and Lombardy has been completed. The committee's proposal is to take it as a basis. I'm betting on a draft Lombards and Lombardy Act for adoption. [[Registration number 3433]] Please vote. [[17:25:52]] For 395 Decision taken. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian law on patenting certain types of entrepreneurial activity is being announced for consideration. The rapporteur is the national deputy of Ukraine, Igor Ivanovich Krill. And the co-rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy, Natalia Yuriovna Královska. Please, is there a reporter? Well, please, then, the head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u84	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, at its meeting on 18 March, reviewed the draft Law on Amendments to the Law on Patenting of Certain Business Activities of Ukraine. [[Registration number 3262]] But I would like to say immediately to all the people's deputies present in the Chamber that the committee supported the bill. But after the Act on the Prohibition of Game Business was passed last week, we believe that this bill is no longer relevant. Therefore, both the Yulia Timoshenko bloc and I, as committee head, propose this bill, because it is not relevant, do not support it. Although the Committee's decision is to support it on first reading. BUT won't vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u85	Thank you. Dear colleagues, together with what we have in our bill, no one takes it off the table, right? So maybe let's do it this way. I will put to the vote the decision of the committee to adopt it as a basis and, depending on the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we will continue to be determined. Is there no objection? If. Please sign in. Please state the names of the national deputies. Xenia Lapina, Jaroslav Suhi. Please, Xenia Mikhailno.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u86	Dear colleagues! Xenia Lapina, group “For Ukraine!” I want to draw attention to the fact that this bill was an excellent example of how to deal with the game business. Regrettably, the hall made a fundamental strategic mistake when it went through the slightest resistance and the path of populism and decided to ban everything. So we're losing patent costs. Now we can't make a definition decision, and there's a definition of all these decisions. That is, instead of making this balanced decision and starting a further course of regulation and limitation, unfortunately, the hall has made some incomprehensible decision. What to do now, I don't know. I'm behind this law. But what's the point of adopting it if it actually cancels this activity. That's how to get out of this situation, for example, I can't understand. Even though I recommended adopting it as a basis, perhaps some wise thought would return to the Supreme Council and the Supreme Council would review its rather imperfect decision that was then made in the field of gaming. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u87	Jaroslav Suhi, please, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u88	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Here are my colleagues, in my hands the order of the day, we had it if we had voted to work on it by morning to get through it. Now we're looking at 22 questions, whether it's 22 bills or 22 decrees. Please tell me, although one bill here has an anti-crisis orientation. While one aims to minimize the social consequences of the global financial crisis, nothing like that. This bill, we've already solved the question, we've banned the gaming business, we've improved, we've introduced the previous Lombards and Lombard Activities Bill. A good bill may have a politician's conscience to place in this pawnbroker's obligation to get the country out of crisis, not to bore our heads here. You're right, it's Vladimir Mikhailovich, we've wasted time, I can remind you how time has been spent. I can remind you that in May 2008, some factions here were killing the hall. They wanted us to adopt anti-inflationary bills. Remember, there was noise and noise. We don't see any anti-inflationary bills right now. No MPs, no government. It seems to me that we are simply, simply, colleagues, wasting our time and killing people's heads. This bill, in particular, cannot be voted for.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u89	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I want to remind you again, the order of the day was formed a week ago. Secondly, when the author does not take a bill, the Supreme Council of Ukraine should be determined. So I'm going to put it as a basis, clearly, what would be your position. And so we're going to clear up the legislative field or the field of our activity. I am voting on a draft law amending the Ukrainian law on patenting certain types of entrepreneurial activity. Registration number 3262 to be accepted as a basis. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:31:45]] For-29 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected accordingly. A draft law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to implement them in accordance with the Ukrainian Act on the Principles of National Regulatory Policy in the Field of Economic Activity is being announced for consideration. Registration number 3277. The rapporteur is National Deputy of Ukraine Natalija Jurijovna Královska, co-rapporteur of the Subcommittee, Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Enterprise Mikhail Vasilovich Chechev. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u90	Dear colleagues, respectable Vladimir Mihajlovich, we have a truly large number of good, necessary and useful laws, but unfortunately they do not work. And it can also be called an anti-crisis measure when the necessary laws will work and work exactly when our country needs to come out of the crisis. The Act on the Fundamentals of Public Regulatory Policy in the Field of Economics was adopted six years ago, and the Act helped to establish systemivity and order in regulatory policy. Indeed, the law is very necessary, but unfortunately, the principles of regulatory policy and constructive mechanisms have not been fully established in six years. Because the number of conflicts, the number of mechanisms that have not been regulated has prevented this law from being one of the best laws in our country. The bill proposes that the authors amend 28 laws. I would like to stress that all these changes are aimed exclusively at enacting existing laws in accordance with the Ukrainian Act on the Fundamentals of Public Regulatory Policy in the Field of Economic Activities. The adoption of this draft law will help to streamline our legislation in general and regulatory policy legislation. In particular, this law will ensure that regulatory acts are adopted in the future with the mandatory observance of the principles of State regulatory policy. The integrity, transparency and unity of regulatory legislation will be ensured, which will allow us today to reduce administrative pressure on business. And we hope to improve the business climate. We will thus contribute to attracting investment and improving credit for the real economy. Many countries in the world have already spent money and energy and their efforts to scale down the crisis by simplifying regulatory policies.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u91	Give me a chance to finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u92	The drafters therefore request that the bill be considered and adopted on first reading. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u93	Thank you. Mikhail Vasilovich, please make the decision of the committee on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u94	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, at its meeting on 18 February 2008, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to bring them into line with the Ukrainian Law on the Principles of National Regulatory Policy in the Field of Economic Activity. Registration number 3277. The purpose of the bill is to bring Ukraine's legislative acts into line with the requirements of the Ukrainian Act on Principles of National Regulatory Policy in the Field of Economic Activity in Part of the Procedure for the Development, Consideration and Adoption of Regulatory Acts. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in its conclusion of 26.02.2009, believes that the first reading of the bill could be based on further development in line with the comments and proposals made. The members of the committee, after considering the proposed bill, believe that, with its adoption, the legislative acts of Ukraine, which determine the order of preparation and adoption of regulatory acts by the executive authorities, will be brought into line with the requirements of the Ukrainian Act on the Principles of National Regulatory Policy in the Field of Economic Activity, and will contribute to the Party of Regions to a gradual reduction in the number of noticeable regulations and the adoption of regulatory acts in compliance with the principles of State regulatory policy. In the light of the foregoing, the committee adopted a decision on the draft Ukrainian Law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to bring them into line with the Ukrainian Law on the Principles of National Regulatory Policy in the Field of Economic Activities, to send them to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for consideration and to propose to accept it as a basis. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u95	Thank you! Dear colleagues! Is there a need to discuss? Please sign in. May I see the names of the national MPs? Xenia Leapina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u96	Colleagues, Kseniya Lapina, group “For Ukraine”. I want to point out that this bill is really anti-crisis, actually. Because a number of government authorities have long ignored the principles and principles of national regulatory policy, which are exacerbating the entrepreneurial climate in Ukraine and, in fact, deepening the crisis. I want to point out that this is a question we had a chance to solve a year ago. Unfortunately, in the Supreme Council, then, because of political positions, a similar bill, analogous to the authorship of the President, was broken. I'm glad we're back to that question now under the MP's authority. And I think this is where we have to show our minds. It doesn't matter whether there's an authorship, whether there's an authority or not, whether there's a political power here or not. The important thing is that we have to do it for the entrepreneurial climate. In order for us to really have a chance to get out of the crisis, dear colleagues. Because it's the enterprise that's going to get the country out of the crisis. And this is what we need to focus our efforts on, laws that actually allow us to improve the situation in the country. But I'll pay attention to the last one. The only body not mentioned here is the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We're with you, fellow officials, the biggest violators of the Law on the Principles of State Regulatory Policy. And in fact, I would like to draw our attention to the fact that the next step we must take is to bring the Supreme Council of Ukraine back to life the law that we have adopted, the principles of national regulatory policy. And that's in the Supreme Council Rules. Because today it's not even close. And the Supreme Council violates the principles of national regulatory policy today. There's this project, it's been rejected by the regulatory committee. But now we're preparing a second application. I ask you very much to note that this is a completely uninterrupted and important question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u97	Jaroslav Mikhailovich Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u98	Honorary colleagues are sure that the improvement of the individual provisions of the Code of Masters in the definition of the criteria for the placement of small, medium or large business subjects. I really can't imagine what the anti-crisis of this bill is, because small business is definitely a reserve of jobs. We understand that very well. But I want to draw the attention of the governing coalition to inconsistencies in concessions and approaches to small business. Just recently, here in the session room, you are the governing coalition that has raised taxes on this small business several times, and now we see and watch with you how the subjects of the registration are being removed, how this small medium-sized business goes into the shadow of how incomes are being hidden, and certainly they will not pay the tax. I take advantage of the opportunity to take the floor in this bill, and I turn to the governing coalition and to the government. Ladies and gentlemen, don't give us a hard time. Where are your anti-crisis bills? This is already 23 of it with great difficulty to say that it has anti-crisis elements. Where are the anti-crisis bills that would allow us to minimize the social consequences of the negative phenomena we see in Ukraine? The sharp reduction in production volumes, the decline in GDP, the cuts in budget income, the ever-increasing deficit of the Pension Fund, and all of this is accompanied by some frightening calls. Politicians should not tell the truth. Politicians have to lie, tell us how well we live, how well we live, so that we do not sow panic among the people. You don't have to panic. Anti-crisis legislation is needed. Otherwise, all of our work is ordinary Martian labor. It's making you see what you're doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u99	Dear colleagues, the draft law has been discussed. The committee's proposal is to take it as a basis. This proposal is based on voting, namely the adoption of a draft law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to bring them into line with the Ukrainian Act on the Principles of National Regulatory Policy in the Field of Economic Activities. Registration number 3277. Please vote. [[17:42:09]] For 370. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, your opinion is proposed by the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on the definition of microenterprises]] The rapporteur is Ukraine’s national deputy, Kseniya Lapina. Correspondent is Head of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, Natalia Jurijovna Královska.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u100	Thank you, Your Honor. I want to pay attention. Thanks to Jaroslav Sukhoma, he's been a little confused, he's just been commenting, actually, this is the law, not the previous one. And I'm paying attention to that. That this bill is the result of our adoption in early 2008 of changes to the definition of a small business entity. I'll be right back. You and I have all harmonized our definition of a small enterprise in Europe, and today we have 70 million bracelets of circulation per year for a small enterprise. These are quite large subjects. It is understandable that there is a different policy regarding them than, for example, a subject who has 500,000 bracelets a year and sits in a bench, a market, or a lamppost. Clearly, these are different in terms of the weight of the subjects. And when the law was passed, you remember, I said we had to define microentrepreneurs in order to separate these microents from all small businesses. And we need to define middle-enterprise entities so that we know clearly where we have big business -- and this is transnational corporations, really large volumes -- where we have medium-sized business and where we have small and microbusiness. This allows for only one thing: it allows – there are already such criteria – to make a literate policy on these subjects. Of course, it depends further on how the government forms this policy. And this bill we can't replace, and it's certainly the responsibility of the government -- then it's a literate policy on microbusiness, relatively small business. And I agree with my opposition colleagues that there is no harmonious, consistent policy today, unfortunately. However, if we do not set criteria, we will never have this policy. Let's open the way for literacy policy, well, let's do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u101	Natalia Royal, head of the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u102	Dear colleagues, respectable Vladimir Mihajlovich! The Committee on Industrial, Regulatory Policy and Enterprise has considered Bill 3461 and considers it appropriate to bring our legislation into line with the norms of the European Union. The members of the Committee are convinced that we are obliged to take our business step by step, but equal conditions of competition with Europeans. It is absolutely logical to establish boundaries between the definition of different categories of business and those that meet the criteria adopted by Europe today. It is also reasonable for us to define and outline niches for businesses of different scales. Because when we pursue public policy, we can truly channel support, channel incentives to those categories of business, to support small businesses that need support, especially during times of crisis. The Committee on Industrial, Regulatory Policy and Enterprise proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u103	Please sign up for the speech, your honors. Please put the names of the people's deputies on the board. Mikola Kulczynski, please. Roman Tchac. Now, one minute. Please. On the rostrum, please come out. On the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u104	Dear National Deputies! I think everyone really understands the big role that small and medium-sized businesses play, especially when there are times of crisis. And of course, we have taken many steps to systematize and bring to European standards legislation concerning small and medium-sized businesses. But there are moments that require today’s improvement of this legislation. And this law that we're considering today is exactly the kind of legislative act that we need today for our small, medium-sized business, especially those beginnings in this area. And that's why I would ask you to adopt this legislative act today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u105	Katerina Samuels, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u106	Thank you very much. Well, I think we're now being listened to by our electorate, by our citizens of Ukraine, and they're thinking, what an absurd thing we're actually doing here in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And speaking of our high status as Ukrainian national deputies, I'm looking for an answer for myself. And I would like to hear, for example, really. In the face of a terrible crisis, what will this bill give us? What's he gonna do, increase the number of jobs? And you and I remember that the President of Ukraine, when he went to the elections, promised that an additional 5 million jobs would be created. Instead, we now have 2 million extra unemployed. So if this bill is going to serve the decision to help solve the President's decision, that's what he was doing for himself, and that's what he was doing for him, and that's what he needed to talk about. Would you please say, perhaps, that the welfare of the Ukrainian people will improve with the adoption of this law? Tell us, please, whether we don't have enough definitions and degrees like big business, medium business, small business, we're getting to the point that we're actually introducing completely new terms without completely filling in any meaning. Once again, we sometimes put a cross on all of our political activities with similar absurd laws, and there is no such legislation as the national deputies of Ukraine. If it's an anti-crisis bill, we're going to have to think, of course, that tomorrow we're going to make a lot of decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u107	Dear colleagues, the draft law has been discussed. The committee's proposal to accept it as a basis. I submit this motion for a vote, registration number 3,491 of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the definition of a micro-entrepreneurs' concept for the adoption of a draft law. Please vote. [[17:50:51]] For-47 The decision is not taken. I'm voting on the proposal of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration to send a draft law to be drafted. I'm willing to vote on the re-reading. [[17:51:20]] For-164 The decision is not taken, the bill is rejected. Dear colleagues, we are under review. Attention, please. – Draft laws 1462, 1462-1, 2411, 2103 relating to the amendment of the Ukrainian Law on Ukrainian State Prizes. I would ask that we look at these bills quickly and identify them. The rapporteurs are the first Deputy Minister of Industrial Policy Vitaliy Aleksandrovich, Kolesnikov Dmitry Valeriyovich, Deputy Minister of Culture and Tourism Zubko Yuri Petrovich and National Deputy of Ukraine Vasilko Sergey Volodymyrovich. Then we'll ask the committee to speak to Gordienko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u108	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! By President of Ukraine's decree of June 27, 2006, the number 574 professional festival of Metallurgy Day was changed to the day of workers in the metallurgical and mining industries. In connection with this, the CTC referred to the Ukrainian Minpropolitics to propose the development of a draft Ukrainian law amending article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on State Prizes. In order to restore the state reward that existed in the USSR in the 60s to 70s last century and to determine the significant contribution of workers and mining officials to Ukraine's economy. Thus, a bill was drafted by the Ministry of Industrial Policy according to the work plan. The bill was approved by the government and registered with the Supreme Council Secretariat. The bill was reviewed and supported by the Supreme Council Committee on Fuel Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine supports and proposes to adopt the bill in the first reading. I ask you to adopt this bill as a basis and as a law in general. Thanks for the weight!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u109	Thank you! Have a seat, please. National Deputy Kolesniki Dmitry Valeriyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u110	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The bill that we propose for your consideration has been prepared for the purpose of implementation, and more specifically the restoration of the title "Deserved Mining of Ukraine" that existed in the U.S.R. The importance of mining for Ukraine’s economy is difficult to overestimate. It is the industrial production of iron, margin-grade, flush raw material that has become a solid foundation for the development of the entire powerful mining and metallurgical complex of Ukraine. I want to say that by the time of the crisis, Ukraine's mining and metallurgical complex had provided about thirty percent of the total industrial output and forty-five percent of the currency revenues in Ukraine. The current honorary title “Deserved miner of Ukraine” cannot be assigned to employees of the industry as a result of the absence from the classification of the professions of these enterprises, the mining profession. Their classifications include such professions as passerby, cleaning worker, and others. The current honorary title “Deserved worker of the Ukrainian industry”, which is now assigned to workers in the field, does not fully reflect the specificity of the work of workers in the basic sector of the mining and metallurgical complex of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, you may have pointed out that the texts of these two draft laws are indistinguishable. I'm explaining the reason. The thing is, both projects were developed by our group in the past. As my first deputy minister of industrial politics, the project remained with the Ministry of Industrial Policy, and Alexander Wilkull, the National Deputy of Ukraine. But there were no drafts or other drafts in the session hall. So, honourable colleagues, I ask you to support in the first reading and in general as a law a bill that will be put to the vote first to promote the reputation of the miner's profession and simply to honor this without exaggeration, a heroic profession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u111	Thank you, too. Deputy Minister of Culture and Tourism Zubko Yuri Petrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u112	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! For your consideration, a draft Act amending article 10 of the Ukrainian Act “On Ukrainian State Prizes” provides for the introduction of a new honorary title “Deserved Ukrainian Tourism Officer”. Since tourism combines resort and hotel activities, this title will also be given to workers in these areas. Today, the total number of employees in the tourism sector and in the resorts of employees of tourism enterprises, hotels, sanatoriums, tour guides is more than 200,000. In addition, hundreds of public associations work in the tourism sector, including the Federation of Sports Tourism, the Association of Tour Guides, the Ukrainian Tourist Association, which unites hundreds of thousands of Ukrainian citizens and contributes not only to the development of tourism but also to the development of a healthy lifestyle, the promotion of the historical and cultural heritage of the Ukrainian people. The adoption of the bill will have a positive effect on the development of the domestic industry, tourism and resorts, and on the moral and material encouragement of its employees in the implementation of national policies to support internal and incoming tourism. Thank you for your attention. Please support as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u113	Thank you. Sergey Volodymyrovich Vasilenko in connection with Bill 2103
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u114	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The introduction of the honorary title “Deserved Civil Protection Officer” is an assessment of the highest professional skills of hard and dangerous work and of special merit to the state and the people of civil protection workers. Civil protection is an important component of national security, and the prevention of emergencies and the effective elimination of their consequences is one of the main priorities of the Ukrainian Cabinet. It is appropriate to point out that thousands of civil protection workers come out of their day - to - day activities every day. The purpose of the work is to warn and counter the catastrophes of a technological and natural nature. Dear colleagues, I would like to support this bill, since the introduction of the title “Deserved Civil Protection Officer of Ukraine ” will promote the prestige of the lifeguard’s profession, whose skilled professionals contribute to the promotion of public order, timely response and assistance during disasters and technological accidents both within and outside Ukraine. The bill received a positive conclusion from the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. The Committee on State Building and Local Self - Rule is recommended as a basis for consideration in the first reading. Please support this bill as a basis. And if it's your will, it's the law as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u115	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I now request from the Committee of Sergei Vladimirovich Gordijenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u116	The honourable colleagues, the honourable chairman, the distinguished employees of these sectors, who you have heard of being introduced, are offered the opportunity to introduce the honorable titles of the deserving workers in these fields. The Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government at its meetings addressed the issue of making changes to article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on Ukrainian State Prizes, presented by the Cabinet of the Ministry of Ukraine, and submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputies, Villukul and Kolesnik. [[on the introduction of the honorary title “Deserved Mining of Ukraine”]] Also at the next meeting, on 8 April, a bill on the introduction of amendments to article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on Ukrainian State Prizes, registered number 2103, introduced by the National MP Vasilnik, was being considered. [[on the introduction of the honorary title “Deserved Civil Protection Officer of Ukraine”]] A bill has also been considered which has been introduced with regard to the introduction of the honorary title “Deserved Ukrainian Tourism Officer”. [[Registration number 2411]] The Supreme Council Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government, after discussing these bills, decided on each bill to adopt them as a basis and as a whole. I am leading my fellow MPs to the knowledge of the chairman and of the whole public that we have very little differences in our time when we were discussing the bill entitled "Deserved Mining of Ukraine", where the bill was drafted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the National Deputies. People's deputies just got here.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u117	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u118	We've been reporting from the copyright team, and we've been communicating here. They don't insist on who will be the author of the final version, just to be introduced and we have voted on this honorary title in the field, which is the basis of the economy of Ukraine and works by a very large number of people.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u119	Dear colleagues! You all have it, don't you? Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss the bill? Please sign in. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? Catherine Samuel, please. Then the national deputy of Glazunov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u120	Thank you. Of course, the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine will be conducting, supporting these bills. But I would just like to make some comments. Here's what's going on with the first title "Deserved miner." But we're introducing it and making changes to the law not because your president once wrote and changed the name of a professional holiday, but because people each day affirm the honor of a working man, their work, their corns, not because they once said something to the President of Ukraine. That's the first one. It's different. I want to speak to the Deputy Minister, who is now smiling, culture and tourism. He won't hear it. Because I want to say, we will support the introduction of the High Name Deserving Tourist, "Deserved Tourist Officer". But you destroyed the tourist industry. We in this Supreme Council of Ukraine passed the law a few years ago, it was a tourist constitution that we were jealous of throughout the world, before which all heads were bowed. You've just destroyed your tourism. And for God's sake, with the introduction, with changes to the law, we've raised not only the high rank of tourism workers, but also the sector itself. Because it's practically not working for our nation today. You've brought it to such an extent in your ministry, including what you've included in a ministry for which tourism is, you know, something that's very far away. And tourism is a sector that represents Ukraine for the whole world. We'll support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u121	People's deputy Glazunov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u122	A party of regions will support these bills. All I wanted to do was stop on the bill about a well-deserved miner in Ukraine. It exclaims how sad it is that this mining profession is becoming less popular with young people every year. If working in Soviet times, even in the mining profession, was considered to be quite prestigious and it was incredibly difficult to enter a higher mining facility, it is now just the inability to find another job that motivates young people to go to mines and careers. The mining and metallurgical complex has been, and remains, the basic sector of the domestic economy and the leading donor in the budget of all levels, but unfortunately, we sometimes forget that under the dry statistics of GDP or industrial production, there is conscientious work that is extremely difficult under tens of thousands of people. So, honourable colleagues, I ask you to support the bill, which is intended primarily for the restoration of historical justice in relation to mining workers, which is the only card of our state in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u123	People's Deputy Kamchat faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u124	Kamchatny, “Julia Timoshenko’s Block, ” Kharkushkin. I want to express my personal opinion, I think it's one step at a time, one title at a time, and so on, so forth, the constant change in the list of honorary rewards it honestly raises doubts. In due time, the President’s Secretariat proposed an idea for improvement, a concept for improving the prize. This idea, however, has not yet been realized. It seems to me that we need to approach this issue in a complex, because there are still dozens of categories of our working citizens who are not covered by the title honorable, deserving, national and so forth. For example, a civil defense worker today is a courageous order, why this reward cannot be used when it comes to the exploits of these people. Or we are introducing today the title “Deserved Tourism Officer”, but there is the title “Deserved Service Employee”. Tourism is primarily a service and can be used by offering a reward. So with nothing against, really, the merit of those who work in these areas, it seems to me that on the drop of grinding the very idea of a reward, it is unfaithful. We need to look at this in the complex. Let's see where there are gaps in the categories of our workers that we can't mark. And after that, a comprehensive document that not only expands the list of different names but improves the rewards in general. Because we know that today, unfortunately, some rewards are given out, let's say, for unclear reasons, frankly. So in general, by supporting the idea of improving the prize, I personally oppose the approaches that have been shown today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u125	Yuri Karmazin, “Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u126	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense”. Ladies and gentlemen, we are certainly considering an anti-crisis document. No country in the world has been struggling with the crisis of introducing three additional titles of “deserved”, payments and so on. No country has anything. I ask you: would you please say, "Deserved worker of the Ukrainian industry" approaches the "deserved miner"? Maybe? Maybe. Is that industry? Industry. We have thirty-three titles today, to your knowledge, four nationals and a mother heroine. There's no hero father. It may be necessary to start, and then all the crisis will end. Therefore, dear friends! I respect all the professions that are, but there must be a limit. We don't have a limit! “Deserved social worker” does not suit us to identify tourism workers, we say that hotel farming has something else. We don't have a "deserved cultural worker" for them either, for them to be defined, we need a single name. We have to wait for the medals and medals now, and, by the way, there is no justification, and how much it will cost, and what, and how. I am definitely against such a crisis. I am firmly opposed to the “washing up ” of those names that are today. The more we set them up, the more we “wash” them. And if we go according to the logic that how many people we have are four and under every deserved thing we shall immediately make a people, for it is written there: Give the people after what they have earned. So where do we get to? I now understand why other countries don’t have these names, and they don’t have that kind of crisis. I'm definitely against these bills! Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u127	Dear colleagues! The discussion is over, I'll put it to a vote. Please, Adam Martinyuk. Wasn't the faction yours, was it?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u128	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! It's a purely technical offer, but please listen. The first bill has two so the first term has two bills. There are government and MPs. Without offending the government, the MP is better prescribed. Let's vote for the MP if the session room agrees not to put the government to a vote, but to immediately vote the MP, because it's technically better. And for the same question, please contact the hall, if supported, and do it this way.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u129	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I beg your attention, fellow Members, this is before we make a decision about a well-deserved national MP. First, we need to put two bills, 1462 and 1462-1, which propose the introduction of the honorary title “Deserved Mining of Ukraine”. The first bill is Governmental 1462, the second 1462 is copyrighted. So I'm going to put it according to the registration, first the government, then the MP. I am voting for adoption on the basis of draft law, registration number 462 government, amending article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on Ukrainian State Prizes for Honorary Name “Deserved Mining of Ukraine”. Please vote. [[18:12:50]] For 333 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, perhaps there is nothing we can pass on for a second reading, so let us make a decision. Please, Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u130	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Then let's find a compromise: let's add the last sentence of the MP's bill and now we're going to accept this government as a law as a whole. Because there's a commission that, in fact, the Cabinet of Ministers develops, implements, and so forth and so forth. Please see the bill to the MP's final assignment. By the way, all the rest of the bills, all the other names will go like this, they're shaped. So we're taking the last part of the MP -- and we're taking it as a law as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u131	Please, from the government. Well, now you've heard, you want to hear it, they're about to say. Then you will continue to deny it or not. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u132	The same amount will be reduced by the award of industrial awards: “Deserved worker of the Ukrainian industry”, so no additional budget funding will be increased.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m1.u133	Dear colleagues, the point is that in the awards of "Deserved Industrial Workers" and the share of miners, they will be removed and removed. Dear colleagues, are you insisting? We've taken it as a basis, we're not going to take it any further. All of it. Well, is there any objection to what I can do? Dear colleagues, he denies it. I ask again: Is there a objection to the final acceptance? Is it? All of it. I am voting on draft law 2411: amending article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on Ukrainian State Prizes, registration number 2411. [[on the honorary title “Deserved Ukrainian Tourism Officer”]] To be accepted as a basis. [[18:15:22]] For 310 Decision taken. The committee proposes to accept it as a law. Is there a denial? Is there a denial? So we've taken it for granted. Please make your suggestions. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the draft Decree, Registration No. 2103, amending article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on State Prizes for the implementation of the Honorary title “Deserved Civil Protection Officer” for adoption as a basis. I'll remind you again. I'd like to make up my mind. It will be if you enter a corresponding project. [[18:16:17]] For 294 Decision taken. The committee proposes to accept the project as a law. Is there a denial? There's a denial. Dear colleagues, according to the Rules, if one member denies it, we have no right to accept it. Well, I get it, well, I can't, there's a denial. Dear colleagues, I declare the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Tomorrow we'll continue our plenary work at 10 a.m. schedule for Wednesday.
