ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Please include the “Council” system. [[16:00:45]] There are 433 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. I declare the evening plenary session open. Dear colleagues, I'll make an announcement at the beginning of the session. According to the minutes of the meeting of the parliamentary faction “Clocus of Yulia Timoshenko” of 8 October 2009 and in accordance with article 60, paragraph 3, of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report the exclusion of Ukrainian national deputies: Zdirka Hennadija Alexandrovich, Kaplienka Vladimir Volodymyrovic, Ribakova Igor Aleksandrovič of the deputy faction “Clocus of Yulia Timoshenko”. On the basis of article 59, paragraph 4, of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I inform you that the national deputies of Ukraine, Zdirko Hennadyy Aleksandrovich, Kappliyenko Volodymir Volodymyrovich, Rybakov Igor Aleksandrovich, are nonfractional. Dear colleagues, according to the practice of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we have time to consider the question of the election of judges. The head of the Supreme Council has announced that we will begin this procedure at 4 p.m. Since we're not finished with the previous question, I want to agree with the hall that we're about to begin our evening session by considering the appointment of judges. Is there a denial?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u2	There's no objection. Please sign in on the procedure for further work. Petrenko Volodymyr Mihajlovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u3	Please pass the word to Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u4	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! It's Jurist's Day. Today, there are people in the hall who have to go through the approval procedure. Come on, we always have a stumbling block when we're breaking the question. You see what our session started with today -- from what we insisted on yesterday, from the Conciliation Council meeting, let's think about the personnel issues, and another faction insisted that we don't want to take a break in the process of looking at a question that has already begun to be considered. Alexander Volodymyrovich, we are going to establish everyone here today and greet the Jurist's Day. Let's not break up, because this will give us a reason again, either one side or the other side to say, "what the precedent was" -- let's go without precedents already get so full. Let's say hello today. Don't worry.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u5	Stojko Ivan Mihajlovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u6	Thank you, Ivan Stojko, group “For Ukraine! ” Indeed, today is the day of the lawyer and I don't have to wait an hour or two, and on behalf of the group, I welcome all the lawyers in this hall and behind the hall, and I get them a fruitful and good job. And now our group is still proposing not to wait for any questions of solutions that were under the Rules. And since the judges are already in the hall, so I appeal to everyone's conscience, and we suggest that we now consider the issue of the approval of the judges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u7	Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u8	Dear colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen of the judiciary, allow me to welcome you to the Jurist's Day, especially the charming women who are, as always, the most difficult in the world. I congratulate you on having gone through the pit and all those elections and interviews and all those concerns. You're in the session room today. I guarantee you your fate will be resolved today. We're going to confirm you today. We'll be able to manage the budget properly. I've listened to the representative of BUT for the first time. Well, he's been saying things like that for a long time, he's swallowing words. I never realized what he wanted. The budget is the budget, and the appointment of judges is the appointment of judges. That's why the initiative is good. It has to be approved, it has to be supported. They're living people. They have to share with us the responsibility for the fate of the state, because this is the third independent branch of power, the court. Therefore, I propose to support this proposal, and to begin the procedure for appointing judges. Those who are yelling now, I suggest that we have a field office and an obstetrics station. Come on, they'll help you there.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u9	Lyszko Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u10	Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Well, I think all the deputies present in this room, including many lawyers, and each other, are welcome to the referee. But let us not ignore the Rules or exercise legal nihilism at such a festival. Yeah? There's a procedure. The procedure provides for the completion of the consideration of the matter. I think the candidates in the judge would be interested to see how our deputies are working on the budget, how they're discussing it. People will go home, tell you what they've seen here, who they've heard of and who they represent. So I think that people can work with us, and then, after we're done, we'll welcome them to the parliamentary buffet, as we put it, a cup of tea.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u11	Karpuk Vladimir Georgievich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u12	Vladimir Karpuk, MP for Ukraine! I think that respect for the judge and the judicial high branch of power should be respected in the higher legislature, and we should think that people have come from a lot of regions that they still have to go home. So it will also be our greeting and respect for the entire judicial corps, for them to be highly honored by the judges, to have respect for these people. So I support the opinion of those colleagues who are now ready to consider the appointment of judges and once again welcome them all to the festival.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u13	Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u14	Dear Alexander Vladimirovich! Dear colleagues! Well, we can't hostage the judicial corps of our coalition majority. You can't. So once people have been seriously gathered, dissolved, let's do it twice, well, what we're pointing at the whole country. Therefore, there is a proposal to support Jaroslav the Dry Member of the Party of the Regions, and our self-defence position to begin today with the approval of the judiciary, and then I have a second suggestion that we do not hesitate when we have only 5 minutes for questions or 10 minutes for statements, we have to be thorough, we are considering the main anti-crisis estimates of the country, allow all of us to speak up for up to six hours, give everyone a chance to speak on the second issue of the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u15	Thank you. We exchanged thoughts. Dear colleagues, I'd like to say that we do have a certain coalition. Speaking to Ivan Grigorovich, I want to say that this is not a precedent, because we've had time and whether we've been considering a question or not, at this time, it's usually 12.30, we've been looking at the question of the appointment of judges. But you're right about the fact that the Rules don't provide for that. So I actually asked if there was an understanding and consensus on this issue. If there is no consensus, only the Supreme Council of Ukraine can decide. So I'm putting to the vote the proposal to consider now the question of the appointment and release of judges. People's deputies please identify themselves. [[16:09:38]] For 242 Decision taken. Let's move on to the question. Please show the factions. Region Party – 168, "Club of Timoshenko" – 1, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" – 26, communists – 27, "Club of Lithuania" – 19, non-fractional – 1. The question of the election and release of judges is being considered. Reports the head of the Justice Committee, Kiwalov Sergey Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u16	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! Dear National Deputies! Ladies and gentlemen! On 24 June, 8 July, 9 September, on 7 October, the Supreme Council Committee on Justice considered the submission of the Head of the Supreme Court, the heads of the higher specialized courts on the selection of judges on an indefinite basis and the re-election of judges previously elected on an indefinite basis and the submission of the High Council of Justice on the dismissal of judges under general conditions and on the dismissal of judges from office for a violation of the oath. You are well aware of the procedure. The judges are in the guest bed and on the balcony. Draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine 4790. The committee recommends that the judges be appointed on an uninterrupted basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u17	One moment, one minute, Sergey Vasilovich. Dear colleagues, is there a question for the committee head? None. Please proceed to the first draft of the ruling.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u18	The committee recommends that judges be appointed on an indefinite basis: the Court of Appeal of the Luhansk Region of Ignatova Romana Mikolaiovich; Kherchen City Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Kovalova Alexander Volodymirovich; The Lenin district court of Vinnice, Holota Ludmila Olegovna; The Fifth District Court of the Dnipropetrov region of Resnickek Mikol Sergiyyovich; The Audivian City Court of the Donetsk Region of Irina Dmitrovna; The Yellow District Court of Mariupol Donetsk Region of Vasilchenko Olen Georgievna, Patzenka Pavel Illich, Shatylov Ludmila Grigorovna; Kirovograd District Court of Kirovograd district of Onufriyev Viktor Mikolajovic; Aleksandrian District Court of Kirovogrado District of Kraschenko Svetlana Anatoliyevna; Borislav City Court of Lviv district of Goodim Lubomir Jaroslavovich; Jovkov District Court of the Lviv district of Mikul Volodymira Evgenović; The Kyiv District Court of Odessa Bjasso Natal Volodymyrovna, Gnilicenko Marina Vitaliyevna; The coastal district court of Odessa Kovalenka Vadim Mikolaiovich; The Ravensk District Court of the province of Sidorenka Sergey Mikitovic; The engaged district court of Suma Kostenko Vladislav Hennadyovich; Theophilus District Court of the Hmelni district of Dreckov Svetlana; Putilski District Court of the Chernovetsk district of Diduh Dmitr Vasilovich, Lisak Igor Nicodemovich; the Economic Court of the District of Kudryashu Yulia Valeriyevna; The economic court of Sevastopol Shevchuk Natalija Grigorovna Please support the draft decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u19	Thank you, Sergey Vasilovich. Ladies and gentlemen, there were no objections to the nominations of members of the people. Do any of the national deputies have any questions about the candidates for the judges present in the draft rulings? Is it? Chechatov? Please, Chechchev Mikhail Vasilovich's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u20	Dear Sergey Vasilevich! I have two questions. First question. Is this a one-time list, or will it still be a list by appointment?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u21	Three more.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u22	Three more. And the second question.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u23	Three draft decrees.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u24	When a committee deals with matters of a personal nature by appointment or by extension or vice versa, are they present on the committee or are they not?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u25	All judges, candidates for the indefinite election of their judges, all held a committee. They're supposed to be here in this room under the Rules. If questions arise, questions are asked to the judges, they are answered and then we simply put the question to the vote. Since no one has raised the family-related issues that have been raised, they are put to the vote in the draft regulation that we are talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u26	Jaroslav Suhi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u27	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I have a question to ask the committee on such a plan. Repeatedly here, in the session room, we had such interesting incidents, when the entire committee discussion procedure was over, all consents, then the Ukrainian National Deputy raises his hand in the session room and declares it. I think he's got some pretenses or suspicions. I realize that he has a right, but before that, without discussing or identifying the members of the profile committee who should consider the complaint. Please tell me, during your consideration of this list that you have read, have you had any comments from the Ukrainian National Deputies, or have the Ukrainian National Deputies come from various factions, making claims, comments that, for example, might have come from places? Were there such facts, or were there such incidents? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u28	Thank you for asking. There were no comments on the draft regulation, and here were the comments I would like to make on the next draft.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u29	National Deputy Kostusev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u30	Dear Sergey Vasilevich! Sergei Vasilevich!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u31	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u32	You're listening to me, right? Now there are judges on this list. The U.S. Navy Court of Odessa, am I right? When considered on the committee, interviewed the judges as they are, would they be guided by the law when they work, or, like many judges in Odessa, would follow the orders of Mayor Gurvica and make entirely the decisions that you say you will not force your ears? Unfortunately, we have a system like this in town. Was there a committee discussion on this subject with these comrades? I mean, let's choose now and confirm for life, and then they'll start making decisions that you probably know and for which everyone is ashamed. I can give you examples, enough of them. For example, the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine begins, initiates a case against the High Commissioner for the illegal increase in housing and utility tariffs. The judge immediately decides to prohibit the Committee from considering the case, i.e. it prohibits the execution of the case.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u33	Dear Alexei Alekseevich, Judge Kovalenko Vadim Nikolaevich is from the Primorski court. No comments were made at the Committee's meeting. And all you're saying is there was no complaints about this particular judge.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u34	The sand, Ivan Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u35	Thank you. The sand, the faction of a party of regions. Major Sergey Vasilovich, you have two judges on your list from the Cherniewsky region of Putil district. As far as I know, there were no claims against them. But on the other hand, there was one call today. I wanted to ask if there were any statements on the committee. And if they did, tell me what the point is, because I know these people personally, and I can say that they've worked honestly and conscientiously all the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u36	To date, no comments have been made on the judge in question. And for 16 hours -- I went to a meeting of the Supreme Council -- no faxes or phone calls to the committee. I therefore propose to support these nominations.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u37	Dear colleagues, to the candidates in the draft decrees, are there any claims? Hell-bent Alexander Mikolayovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u38	Pekljuenko, the "Regions" faction. I, like all of you, congratulate again today all the judges in that room. I am sure that there are no coincidences, and the judges who will be appointed on that day will be the most humane judges. In this regard, I would like to ask you a question so as not to break the link between the previous issue. Please name in the presence of your colleagues how much budget underfunding for this year and how much you look at the figures the Government has given in the so-called 2000 budget project. We know in the budget committee that these are hundreds of millions of bracelets. Today, the courts are deprived of the most basic: the possibility of paying public utility bills, no envelopes, no papers. What are these courts? How do we want the rule of law if there is no normal funding?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u39	Sergey Vasilovich, this is not about the draft ruling. If there are no questions about the judges' candidatures, I am voting on the draft Order on the Election of Judges. Please be sure. [[16:21:23]] For 395 Decision taken. Please, next draft of the ruling.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u40	5116. The committee recommends that judges be elected on an indefinite basis: Dnipropetrov's Administrative Court of Appeal, Rudenko Marina Anatoliyevna; Kharkiv's Administrative Court of Appeal, Rusano Victoria Borisovna; The Lenin District Court of Winnice King Alexander Pavlovich; Yasinauth District Court of the Donetsk Region of Tkakov Svetlana Stefanovna; Ordjonikidev District Court of Mariupol Donetsk Region of Mironenko Irina Petrovna The Emilchin district court of the district of Zitomir, Greska Vasila Adamovich; The Royal District Court of Zitomir of Singapore, Alexander Pavlovich; Bobrinecki District Court of Kirovograd district of Behaz Oleg Yuriovich; Lutugina District Court of Lugansk District, Chunov Alla Mikhailnov; Sverdlov City Court of Lugansk, Logwine Larissa Sergiyevna; The South Ukrainian city court of the Mikolai district of Volkov Olen Ivanovna; Sergio Ilarionovich, a district court in Haerson district of Gypsonian.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u41	Wait a minute, wait a minute, wait a minute. Note by Andrey Vasilovich Skull Can I have your name, please? Turn on the microphone of the National Deputy School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u42	Thank you. Thank you. I have a comment on the candidate of the Gypsy Sergey Ilarionovitch of the Goloprist District Court of the Hersonian Region. Well, in general, the judge's work is impressive. A whole bunch of civilian affairs, other things.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u43	Andrew Vasilovich, that's later.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u44	Okay, okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u45	Now. We'll go back to.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u46	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u47	Please note, Sergey Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u48	I noticed.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u49	And let's keep going.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u50	The hops of the County Court of Hmielna District of Bondar Valentina Victorian; The Zolitani Regional Court of the Cherkas region of Taratin Valentino Alexandrovich; Mr. Andriy Ivanovich, District Administrative Court; the Commercial Court of the Luhansk Region of Vasilko Tetjana Anatoliyevna, Voroztov's Anatolia Hennadiyovich, Domansk Marina Leonidivna; The Economic Court of the Mikolai district of Seminchuk Natalia Alexandrovna; The commercial court of the Hemu Svetlana Omelyanovna District of Ternopil. Please support the draft decision 5116.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u51	Dear colleagues, apart from Judge Gypani Sergey Larionovitch, who is running for a life term for the Holocaust District Court of the Hersonian Region, are there any comments to other candidates? None. I am voting on draft Decree No. 5116 for the deletion of the candidature of Gypsy Sergio Larionovitch, the Holocaust District Court of the Hersonian Region. Please be sure. [[16:25:39]] For 391 Decision taken. Please use the microphone of the National Deputy School, his justification for the claims made to the judge of Gypsies Sergio Larionovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u52	Thank you. First of all, I've already started a little bit, a whole series of civil affairs on behalf of the citizen of Mališev and the private firm “Prestige”, at the request of Pelichovsky to the Herson Seaport. The same thing for the Kostobayeva call to “Uskrisklodr” is after the wage has been paid. Regrettably, Judge Gypsies did not make a legal decision in violation of procedural law under the circumstances of the court. And it's no wonder the Herson County Court of Appeal canceled. I canceled, I'm sorry, such decisions by Gypsies. Regrettably, the judge did not conclude, for the issue of the protection of the social rights of citizens is considered unnecessary. Nor does he deal with criminal matters. For example, in a criminal case accusing Trigubov of committing a crime envisaged in Part One of the First 286 Criminal Code, a verdict rendered by a court-appointed judge has been annulled for misapplication of criminal law. With this same article, the CPC is an appeal.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u53	Please turn on the microphone of the National School MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u54	Thank you. With this same article, the KPC has amended the rulings by the Court of Appeal in a number of other cases before him, the judge, criminal cases on the charge of Lukashenko, Mamay. [[Article 185]] Both convicted of theft on charges of such an article. The list can be continued. I don't think it's within my jurisdiction to appoint Judge Gypsy Sergey Larionovitch to live. I call on my fellow members of the National Deputies to be able to re-examine this candidature very carefully with the committee. Because I don't think we have the right to vote for him right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u55	Dear colleagues, do we have Sergey Larionovitch in our hall? On the balcony, by the microphone, yes. Please provide an explanation for the questions raised by the school’s national deputy. Turn on the microphone on the balcony.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u56	Indeed, these things, called, took place. They have considered me, and they have annulled both decisions and judgments. But if six decisions in five years of cancelled, called a deputy, that's a bunch of things, me. Indeed, there are, in all the judges, cancelled decisions, these are common cases.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u57	Thank you. The famous Lydia Pavlovna, head of the Supreme Council of Justice. Do you have a need for this, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u58	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! I would like to report that Sergey Ilarionovovich Gypani today, I do not think that this candidature can be considered in Parliament. Because the Supreme Council of Justice has a proposal for the subject to be released from office for violation of an oath. This proposal has not yet been considered. In addition, the Office of the High Council of Justice has before it a parliamentary address by the Ukrainian national deputy Ribakov and has not yet been considered. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u59	Thank you, Lydia Pavlovna, please, Sergey Vasilovich, how did the committee look at the matter of exemption for breach of oath in the High Council of Justice?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u60	Dear colleagues! Everything that is taken at the meeting of the Committee in accordance with the rules of procedure and we have taken a decision, if my memory does not change, with respect to Sergei Ilarionović Zypanja unanimously. The information spoken by Lydia Pavlovna today, but she was not known to our committee. The Committee accepts the recommendations and the room is already determined how to proceed in a given situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u61	Thank you, Sergey Vasilovich! There's a proposal from the people's deputy Lukyanov, please. Lukyanov’s national MP, microphone, please, Lukyanova.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u62	Dear colleagues! We have practice in the Hall, if there is a remark in the National Deputies, this judge is sent back to the Committee. I think we don't have to walk away from this practice, and that's how we do things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u63	Thank you. National MP Yavorowski, please make your proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u64	Vladimir Yavorowski, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. Honorable fellow national MPs and distinguished candidates in court! If the situation were not for the committee's unanimous decision, then it would be possible to put, say, this decision, or today's decision or not, into question. Since there is a completely unanimous decision, suddenly the national deputy Rybak woke up, well, that's his right when he wakes up.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u65	National Deputy School, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u66	Yes, a national MP. And then suddenly he handed over the papers. There were no documents on the committee, they weren't considered on the committee, so there's just a request to support the committee, which includes all the, absolutely, political segments that are today and need to be supported and put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u67	That is, there are two proposals of the national MPs. Of course not. Is there a third? Please, National Deputy Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u68	Dear colleagues, we must address such issues from the standpoint of both professional and just. I propose to do this as follows: we have, by the way, done so several times without putting this question to a vote so as not to get any vote positive or negative, because there is a High Council of Justice, a separate thought, to remove this candidature now, to assign a committee of profile to find out, deal with all the circumstances and next time, at the next meeting, to issue this question with the final recommendations of the Professional Basic Committee. Because that's not how I accidentally asked today, there's no data on the committee, there's no national complaints from the Ukrainian deputies, and there's suddenly a problem in the session room that's putting us all in a deadlock. We can't make a decision out of a voice. I therefore propose to withdraw this nomination today from the vote and to submit it to the committee for consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u69	Dear colleagues, there is no unanimous opinion. So I'm putting to the vote the motion to postpone the consideration of this issue essentially to the next debate in the session room about the election of judges so that the committee will reconsider this proposal. [[concerning the appointment of a judge]] There is a denial, please, Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u70	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Alexander Volodymyrovich, I think you're right to put all the proposals that came, but in the order of coming, the first was the committee's proposal for its approval, the next was the proposal of the Postponing School, and the third was the proposal of no one at all. So I ask you to put it in order of arrival, and let the session room be defined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u71	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Only after the first negative vote will the second be no longer an offer. The question will be settled and this will be decided by the judge. So I would like us to be very careful about this. Please, National Deputy Philippeenko, your offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u72	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the point is that if you act in accordance with the regulations, part of article 215 says in general that if there are grounds for another MP to review some of the facts on which the committee has not yet carried out the checks, then the vote on this candidature does not take place in this court. Thus, we cannot now, if we act under the Rules, vote in favour of this judge under article 215. So I think, Alexandre Volodymyrovich, your proposal was correct, so far this is a matter for you to remove and assign the committee to deal with all the complaints once again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u73	Thank you for your support. But since the MPs simply didn't have these documents, which is what the National MP at school said, so I'm putting a motion on the vote to remove today's issue from consideration, and to consider it the next time the question of election and appointment of judges is considered. Please be sure. [[16:35:14]] For-166 The decision is not taken. I put to the vote the proposal of the committee to elect a judge on an untimely basis, Gypsy Sergio Ilarionovich. Please be sure. [[16:35:42]] For 219 The decision is not taken. Next draft of the ruling.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u74	Draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine 4791. The committee recommends that judges previously elected on an indefinite basis be elected as judges: The Kyiv Administrative Court of Appeal Sobkov Jaroslava Markianović; Kiev’s Court of Appeal Nesvetov Nadia Mikolayevna; Kiev-based interdisciplinary appeal court Majdanevich Anatolia Grigorovich and Mikolaievich District Administrative Court of Iron Igor Viktorovich. Please support this draft decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u75	Dear colleagues, no objection? The committee recommends that we adopt a draft decision. May I have your attention, please? A draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of judges is put to the vote. [[Registration number 4791]] Please vote. [[16:37:12]] For 394 Decision taken. Thank you. Please proceed with your ruling.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u76	Draft Supreme Council ruling 5205. The Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in connection with the application for resignation, be dismissed from the posts of judges: The Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine, Fadeyev Nina Mikolayevna; the Court of Appeal of the Donetsk Region of Salavin Sergey Valentinovich; The Court of Appeal of the Kharkiv District of Pelishenko, Jean Ivanovna; the Court of Appeal of the Cherka district of Adamenko Love Vasilovna; the Court of Appeal of Sevastopol Ponomarenko Alla Petrovna; Burial District Court of the Winnitsk district of Matsuka, Georgia Alexandrovich; The Novovolin City Court of Volin district of Cratek Stepan Pavlovich; Petrikowa District Court of the Dnipropetrov region of Kwasin Volodymyr Vasilovich; Audivian City Court of the Donetsk district of Makarov Alexander Pavlovich; Thelmanov District Court of the Donetsk district of Tsukurov Petra Mikolaiovich; Berdichiv's Regional Berdichov Regional Court of the Žitomir Region of Babic Vasil Ionović and Blue Antonin Mikhailnovna; The Provincial District Court of the Zakarpat district of Nazarov Peter Alexanderovich; The Primorski District Court of Zaporozhye district of Polulah Valeri Grigorovitch; The City District Court of Ivano-Frankiv district of Budzigan Alexi Vasilovich; Yaremčan City Court of Ivano-Frankiv District of Swidd Theodosi Yosifovich; Obukhiv District Court of Kyiv District Kovalova Jurija Olegovich; The Valley District Court of Kirovograd, Kalmykova Boris Lazarovich; The Krasnodon City Court of Luhansk, Boyk Viacheslav Grigoryovich; The Yellow District Court of Lugansk Kovalova Anatolia Ivanovich; The Mikolai District Court of the Lviv Region of Kovtalya Romana Teodorovich; Kyiv District Court of Odessa Zhukovsky Alexander Grigorovich; Shastkin City Court of the Suman district of Evtushenko Tetjan Ivanovna; Kharkiv District Court of the Kharkiv District of Rossolov Volodymyr Borisovich; Kolanchok District Court of the Herson District of Prudek Ludmila Grigorovna; The Novovorontsov District Court of the Herson District of Pavluchenko Viktor Silvestrović; Volocsky District Court of the Hamretsky district of Mikol Aleksandrovitch; The City District Court of the Hmelnick district of Kelbus Sergey Pilipovich; Isiaslav District Court of Hmelnicka District of Doub Vasil Volodymirovich; The economic court of the Cherka district of Upira Ivan Ilarionovich. Second item. To release Timothy Mikhail Volodymyrovich from the post of judge at the Preval District Court of Luhansk, in connection with the application for a state of health pension that impedes the continuation of duties. Please support the draft Decree 5205.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u77	Dear colleagues, are there no suggestions? I am voting on the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the release of judges. [[Registration number 5205]] Please vote. [[16:42:19]] For 382 Decision taken. Next order 4792, draft order, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u78	The committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine release Skorak Vladimir Mikolaiovich from office as judge of the Solomon District Court of Kiev in connection with his violation of the judge’s oath. Please support this project.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u79	Dear colleagues, let's have the proper procedure to ask Izovet Lydia Pavlovna to take the position of the High Council of Justice. Yes. And then we'll ask Spark Volodymyr Mikolaiovich. No objections? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u80	Dear National Deputies! Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. This is not the first time that Parliament has considered this issue. I would like to report that on May 15, 2008, the High Council of Justice filed a motion for the release of Scorpio Volodymyr Mikolaiovich from the office of Judge of the Solomon District Court of Kiev for violating an oath. The Supreme Council of Justice, after appropriate examinations, concluded that Vladimir Mikolayovich Skork was violating the requirements of the law, was insurmountable in carrying out the duties of a judge in violation of an oath. In this connection, the Superior Council of Justice concluded that he was subject to his release. What are we talking about? This is a question that has been heard for about a year. The point was that the judge was considering the case, violating the rules governing the jurisdiction of legal disputes. For example, when considering God's appeal to the electoral bloc of local political parties, the “Lionid Chernevski Block” for an unlawful and non-effective decision, he allowed the issue to be dealt with in civil proceedings, he made certain prohibitions, and in fact he stopped his claim by providing for a lawsuit, by his ruling he satisfied the divine's claim to secure the lawsuit and stopped the decision of the third interparty conference of the local political parties' “Block of Leonida Chernevecki” to call off and suspend the powers of the deputy of the Dniprovsky District Council in Kiev. At the same time, he stopped all decisions made by the senior governing bodies of the political parties of the constituencies on the recall and the permanent suspension of the powers of local council members until the matter was resolved in substance. It is known that, according to a certain rule of law, a lawsuit is allowed at any stage of the case if the failure to take action may make it difficult or impossible to enforce a court decision. But these security measures should and should be consistent with the applicant’s stated requirements. But Judge Skork ignored this requirement and did not support the need to stop all decisions made by senior political parties’ governing bodies, constituencies and permanent suspension of the powers of local councils. In addition to this decision, there is another decision, which was also considered by the Court of Solomon, that was considered by Judge Skorak. The late application was passed by the office, the application was not registered, and the case was referred to the administrative department of the Zabarski People's Deputy to the President of Ukraine on the termination of the illegal acts and the lack of recognition by the President of Ukraine of the competence to appoint and release the Attorney-General of Ukraine in a manner that is contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine, the Procurator's Act. It was also about the President's Order on the withdrawal of the internal forces of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine from the subordination of the Minister of Internal Affairs to the subordination of the President. As I considered the case, I had already said that the lawsuit had not been registered, and the judge had dealt with the case on his own rather than on his own with the three judges. The judge did not, so to speak, violate the territorial jurisdiction; the judge did not, after the satisfaction of the suit of certain guarantees, that is, certain announcements, and all of these actions were appreciated by the Higher Council of Justice, such as those that violate the judge’s oath. That's why we filed a motion for the release of Judge Skork from the judge's office for a violation of an oath.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u81	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is a question. I see. Vladimir Yavorowski. If there's a question, one from the faction, no more. If not, thank God!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u82	Vladimir Yavorowski, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear colleagues, our constituents! So it's kind of like we're talking about a market tax collector or a JECQ locksmith and all that. We're discussing the election and non-election of a judge who, after our vote, is very often indifferent to this, you know, college -- one, two, we're assigning a person to do the fates of a lot of other people. You've just heard from the mouth of your head, you've heard the tremendous violations this man has committed. Because of that, you have to understand, as a result of some of our here, these small-town political debates, we didn't vote for this person to be removed from the justice system, because, again, I repeat, he's going to decide the fate of a lot of people. As you decide, you see for yourself. Because of this, I'm convinced, it's such a feeling that those who don't vote for his release now obviously have some chance of seeing it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u83	Thank you. I've come to realize that this is already a discussion. Then we can sit down. Have a seat, please. If there are any questions. Mikhail Chechtov, do you have a question or a statement? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u84	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! It is very bad when we involve the judiciary in politics and make the judge hostage of our political struggles. And honors the judge when he tries to involve a judge in political divisions, the judge is still courageous and takes a position in principle, based on the letter of the law and the letter of the Constitution. Why did the question of Scorch arise? Indeed, in 2007, in May 2007, before the elections, he became a hostage of the political situation when there was a dispute over the withdrawal of Piscon from the post of Attorney General, the resubordination of internal forces to the President, and he took a principled position here, based on the law. And this line of political persecution continues to this day, let us support the judge for his civic position so that the rest of us can follow his example. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u85	Vladimir Karpuk. We agreed on one of the factions, the honourable colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u86	Vladimir Karpuk, MP “For Ukraine!”, “Our Ukraine”. Of course, the days leading up to the very important presidential elections do not have to involve the judiciary in these political peripetions. And we realize that the decision that is considered wrong is not yet the basis for the dismissal of the judge. I think it's a very important decision for the judiciary in general in the future. And I'd like to listen to Judge Skork here, what the judge himself will say. Because we understand that certain political forces want to privatize certain courts and the outcome of elections to decide essentially in the courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u87	Dear colleagues, there are no other factions willing to speak? Then there's Philippe. Well, Pisarenko. Well, please, let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u88	Dear colleagues, what kind of judicial principle might this be if this judge actually stopped the Ukrainian Act on an Imperial Mandate? Where is the principle? What kind of judicial principle might it be when cases were not even held in the court office, when the judge took them out of the street, came, printed, pardoned, and handed them back? What is the judicial principle here? Tomorrow this judge, if he stays in office, he'll take us all in. And that will be his judicial principle. I would also like to remind colleagues from the faction “Our Ukraine – the People’s Self-Defense” that the application for the release of this judge was introduced by the President of Ukraine. So I'm asking you to support this proposal as well. I definitely want to say that Block Tymoshenko will vote in favour of this judge's release. And what I want to say is that the situation is actually unique to Parliament: when the same judge twice held a committee and the committee made a positive decision, he supported the High Council of Justice. So I ask you to be consistent with the committee's decision to release this judge on Lawyer's Day, because the legal environment will be cleared of random people on this day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u89	Pisarenko, please. And then Kowal, right? No, no, and then we'll listen to the judge.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u90	Dear colleagues, I, too, you know, when I heard about some principle in this matter. I wanted to remind you that we are standing before the electoral process. And you know, if we don't show the whole judiciary today an example that judges don't have the right to set legislative rules and change them by their decisions of the court, and if we don't show that, really, every time we do, every violation of the law is a responsibility, you can imagine what the election process is going to be. Today, you and I have approved amendments to the Electoral Law, just to ensure that the courts do not determine the outcome of the election. Today we have a judge here who has actually changed the rules of the law that the whole country has been talking about, how to live and what to do. So, honourable colleagues, let's really show that there's punishment. It is indistinguishable, and so that those judges who have been given the right to continue to work today will see that the Supreme Council is in line with the higher positions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u91	Yes, dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts. Unfortunately, there is no Scorch of Volodymyr Mikolaiovich. He didn't show up. I was informed by my head. [[B in m in s a l in]] Is it? Yeah, why'd they say it wasn't? I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u92	He just showed up.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u93	Please, Vladimir Mikolaiovich, your position on this matter?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u94	So I want to say that when I made a decision about the deputy of God, it was the jurisdiction of the district courts. With regard to the decision to revoke the President’s decree concerning Attorney General Piscoon, the District Administrative Court adopted a similar decision in April of this year. On the subject of the Ukrainian Presidential decree, just one year later, the President of Ukraine canceled the decree that he himself issued on May 25, 2007. Two, more than two years and four months have passed since the decision was made. During this time, I have drawn conclusions, and accordingly, I have good results, positive characteristics. During this time, I have never been to a hospital. For three years, I was not even on extra vacations. And I think I've done my best to correct my position, and I'm not going to do that again, and I'm going to order the tenth one to do that.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u95	Dear colleagues, did you hear the explanation? No questions asked.? [[B in m in s a l in]] Oleg's got Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u96	Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Respectable. Well, I don't know if you can call a judge when he makes that decision. But look, you're just confirming what the MPs are saying. You're saying that, well, I've been looking into cases about the repeal of the decree, and a year and a half later, the administrative court made a similar decision. Oh, right. Well, it's a different court. So this is the administrative court's case to make this decision. What are you here for?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u97	At the time.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u98	It's one thing when there's a colleague there looking at everything else. So you're confirming that in violation of the law, in violation of the status of judges, you took a decision on your knees, you called it off. Of course, God gives you health so that you do not go to the hospital. But if it were the only merit to leave you as a judge, there was no basis for that. The judge must act according to the law. If you make decisions that are illegal, you cannot be a judge.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u99	Yes, Jaroslav Kenzier, please. Then Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u100	Jaroslav Kenzior, “For Ukraine!” You know, us. I am particularly pleased to hear that the judge admitted his mistake and said that he had reached conclusions and that no more such decisions would be taken in his practice. I'd like the revelation to be complete. Your Honor, please tell me, how much did this decision cost in a natural way?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u101	Yes, Mikhaylo Chechtov, please, and we will now make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u102	Dear colleagues, once again, let us give up the idea of involving judges in politics. But in this situation, not every judge has the courage to oppose the President's arbitrary order. And life proved right. He did the right thing. Not everyone could have done that. So I repeat, let's vote, support the judge and continue to give up the idea of getting the judiciary into politics. The judiciary is the third branch of the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u103	Dear colleagues, have you all expressed your point of view? Is there no other position? I am voting on the committee's proposal to adopt a draft decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the dismissal of a judge. [[Registration number 4792]] To release Skork Vladimir Mikolaiovich from office as Judge of the Solomon District Court of Kiev in connection with his violation of the judge’s oath. Please vote. [[17:00]] For 231 Decision taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 0, Timoshenko Yulia Block – 152, Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense 57, Communist faction – 0, Litvina Block – 20, non-fractional – 2. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Allow me, on your behalf, to welcome the judges whom we have elected on an untimely basis. They wish that they could faithfully fulfill the responsibilities they now face, that is, continue their work. And also thank the judges whom we have dismissed in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Judges. Dear colleagues, your applause. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing our consideration of the submission to the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the draft Law on the State Budget of Ukraine for 2010. Now we have speeches from the committees and directly from the deputies. We've got 41 deputies on the stand, we're multiplying by three, dear colleagues, we've only got an hour. Not all will be able to speak. Valentin Grigorovitch Matthews, Communist faction, please. Peter Stepanovich Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u104	Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! The Ukrainian Company faction, head of the Ukrainian Veterans' Council, Peter Cibenko. You know, frankly, my dear colleagues, I'm delighted to hear that this State Budget project is almost as bad as it has been in recent years. Let's try a few thesis to correct this, to put it mildly false, by correcting a number of indicators that refer to the most deserving and most respected part of our society, the veterans. For example, I remind you that 2010 is the year of the 65th anniversary of the Great Victory over Fascism, and this situation is growing to the point where debt to the veterans in general and to veterans in particular. How many rescuers of Europe and mankind can live in poverty and beggary? A few specific things, there is no mechanism in this budget project to solve the problem of subsistence minimum. To date, the living minimum for people who have lost their jobs is 498 dollars. It has been proposed since January 1, 2010, up to a total of 507 dollars. That is, in 15 months of crisis survival, an increase in living minimum of as much as 9 dollars. Second remark. One of the three horses with which the Yulia Tymoshenko Block, which today forms the foundation of the coalition and the foundation of the government, let's put it plainly, is the voter voter's problem of the children of war. Ukraine’s citizens almost wrote their case before a court, and there was a tremendous amount of such appeal. So there's no solution to this problem in this draft budget. I'll tell you more, there are 540 lawsuits in the courts of Ukraine for the return of financial compensation for the status of a child of war and the cost of a question of one and a half billion dollars. When will we repay this debt? And the third thing I want to say is, I want to understand and realize, I would still like to understand the State budget of Ukraine for the benefit of Ukrainians and not Ukrainians who live in Ukraine or for Ukrainians who live outside Ukraine. The question is not rhetorical, for the needs of foreign Ukraine, namely, the diaspora, are divided into 44 million programs, and up to 7 million are allocated to support veteran organizations in Ukraine. The more we are roasted, foreign Ukraine or our, internal, Ukrainian Ukraine, that's why a faction of communists is proposing this draft state budget not to be considered.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u105	Jaroslav Suhi, a faction of the Party of Regions, will then perform by Irina Akimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u106	Dear colleagues, the history of world parliamentaryism and this is known by university students, both the institution of democracy, clearly, is determined, both by tax collection and the issue of distribution under social budget control. We have a special day today, we're looking at a budget, this is the basis for our activities. The fact that there is no government, I wouldn't focus on it, there is no coalition, there is no government, like the President, that's illegal, that's how our state is, and what it's holding on to, God himself knows. The social aspects of this bill. The State budget for 2010 in the presentation, a presentation performed by the Minister of Finance of Umanski said that the state social standards in 2010 were rising rapidly to an inflation index of 11 percent. Now, please listen to the figures, the government provides a minimum wage of 734 bracelets. In that bill, the colleagues of Zarubin's Block of Lithuania, which we supported in the first reading, the figure is another: 744 bracelets. Please tell me where the "crime" is, I quote the Prime Minister's words, "in those 10 bracelets," where the atomic bomb is. And I'm sorry that this is such a rotten financial system, two years from now, which is rotten, which of the 10 bracelets can be balanced, fly away and fly away! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! People's deputies! You're not Cabinetmen's deputies, are you? You're not party deputies. Is it around them to build this whole rotten policy now? Today, Romania is feasting. Have the Romanian trade unions taken part in the protest, what do they require? Raise the minimum wage from $1,900 per month to $2,000,300 per month. Romanians. I apologize to the Romanians. And our minimum is 80 dollars a month. One more. The state does internal and external functions, how are we going to perform the external function? Look at the financing of international activity, international authority. In 2009, 774 million dollars were planned for overseas agencies at the rate of $5.5 million. For 2010 – 862 million dollars at an unknown rate. Broken military funding, international structures. What do we have to do with you international obligations? And the last. I know the Prime Minister is going to Zaporozhye. Tell her, please, either the money for the bridges, or let's figure it out, well, there'll be no good there. Please find out what happened, and why such injustice? In my speech to the judges, I allowed an incorrect statement to be made to John Grigorovich Kirilenko. From this rostrum, I apologize to him.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u107	Irina Akimov, faction of the Party of the Regions. The people's deputy Turmanov will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u108	I have one question in the budget debate. On first reading, the Act on the Promotion of Social Standards was adopted. [[the great efforts of the Party of the Regions]] This law can be called a budgeting officer. Why are we considering the 2010 budget in any of its drafts before this law is passed? I have an answer. This response is that the coalition does not want a second reading of this law. But if we refuse to raise social standards, which many speakers have already mentioned. That's the question. What do we want to see in the budget? Today, many colleagues have said that the foundations of national security are being undermined. In my view, the basis of national security is a healthy, well-being Ukrainian citizen who must survive the economic crisis. This document, which was submitted in the form of a draft budget, can hardly be called a project because it does not stand on the paper on which it is written. Today, there have been epithets that can be described as what the 2010 draft budget is? Here's what I would call a draft budget, an arbitrary budget. It was very appropriate to define the core of the document as the Chief Expert Office. He's totally illegal. It violates constitutional principles, particularly the achievement of normal social standards of life. It introduces, in fact, those laws that have not yet been passed by the President. This project is not just anti-constitutional, it's anti-social because it lowers social standards. The project is anti-investment because, even when certain amounts can be recovered from investment programmes, it severely reduces the share of development costs — and is still low — only 18 per cent. This project is totally unscrupulous because business, which is already in very difficult situations, is going to be under a lot of pressure. Consider two figures, all of them related to small, medium and large businesses. The VAT return is reduced in two, but the income tax increases in one and a half times. How business will survive, where jobs will come from, who will pay and ensure their work will remain outside the budget. This is a budget for full manual management, the only thing he proposes to grow is the growth of public debt, and the growth of debt for business is uncontrolled. That's why, I don't think there can be any other proposal today, it's not a budget, it's pointless to finish it, it needs to be written completely again. And if the Government is unable to do so, then it must give way to a Government that can prepare a rea.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u109	Irina Mikhailovna, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u110	which could produce a realistic, social, investment-oriented budget that would indeed provide a basis for Ukraine's withdrawal from the crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u111	Turmanov Viktor Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u112	Dear colleagues, I think that even though such a serious document of the rostrum is being considered at all empty, no one needs this budget at all. But I would like to remind you, before lunch, that I had to raise these issues in the coal sector, briefly reminding you of 2009 when the 2009 budget was approved in this room. From 5 to 6 attempts were made by 226 votes. What was in the coal budget at the time was 15.2 billion bracelets. That's when I said it was a figure drawn that wouldn't be obtained by coal miners. It is today. Today, there are simply net salaries, taxes on the Pension Fund, taxes on local budgets of individuals, and no social insurance funds are paid. What the Government offers us for 2010 is a budget of 21.6 billion. As explained in the explanatory note, despite the crisis, the Government is increasing the industry's budget by 6 billion. But I called the numbers. Anatoly Ivanovich, you're here. 4.2 billion are pension payments for miners who do not go to industry, 6.5 billion government-guaranteed money - this money will not be received, this practice shows us that it has not been received at the best times. You put one billion in the industry's budget, but that money has to be given to the energy. Two and a half billion dollars your Government owes the Pension Fund in its actions today, and you have included the industry in the budget. And so out of the 21 billion, Anatoly Ivanovich, 15 billion money drawn that is not budgeted. The mines are working today, not the bolts, not the bolts, not the prospects. Today, people who work in mines don't drive, they walk to work. Where are we going? With what budget did we come to Parliament? I therefore believe that this budget should not be adopted in any way. Send it. And today, my colleague here was speaking to Akimova, the budget is completely demanding not only the coal industry and other industries in terms of our local self-government. I am therefore deeply convinced that today we will send this budget to be finalized. The Government must work or make a real budget that will allow not only the coal industry to be revived today, but also other industries and together to boost the economy of our State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u113	Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u114	Dear Alexander Vladimirović, distinguished colleagues! The draft budget for 2010 should be based on the 2009 real budget. The reality is that the 2009 budget is not being implemented. Less than 60 per cent of the plan of the year went to Gosbudget in nine months. As a result of the year, the underperformance would amount to some 40 billion. A similar situation with local budgets. Long-term states are growing. Today, almost every second bracelet lost by the Government of Timoshenko is owed. In such circumstances, the Government is planning a 40 per cent increase in the revenue of the State budget in 2010. The plan should not be considered from the outline, but from the actual budget income. Tell me, what miracle must it be that the Government is stable only in its failure to fulfil its plans and promises for the next year? In the 2010 draft budget, income was significantly overestimated and therefore expenditure was unrealistic. It's pure water adventure. You are told that the draft budget will provide for the invisible social protection of citizens. He won't protect anyone. In fact, Yulia Timoshenko is significantly underestimating public social standards by pushing citizens beyond survival. Today, Yulia Timoshenko fails to pay every pensioner between 200 and 300 bracelets a month and 800 to 1,000 bracelets a month for every budget worker. In general, the Government's draft budget for 2010 is not anti-crisis; it does not answer the main questions that concern people: “How to maintain jobs and wages; how to pay a pension that ensures the most necessary needs of people of advanced age; how to ensure that the income of citizens who at least cover food travel and tariff growth is increased; how to compensate people for the loss of savings?” In addition, the 2010 budget does not provide a countermeasure to address the main causes of economic crises, namely, the loss of external markets, the reduction of domestic demand, which is linked to the decline in the purchasing power of domestic consumers, the reduction of credit, capital outflows, and exchange instability. Instead of stimulating infrastructure programmes capable of providing jobs and enhancing production in related industries, the Government is using budgetary resources for pre-election promises that are unlikely to be implemented. It is obvious that this bill must be returned immediately to the Government for processing, and if it does not know how to do so, let them leave, we will do so, because we have repeatedly corrected the mistakes of political adventurers in power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u115	The sand, Ivan Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u116	Dear colleagues! Popescu, faction Party of the region. If the 2010 budget is to be analysed in terms of ensuring the rights and freedoms of national minorities and stabilizing interregional relations in Ukraine, it must be sent for finalization immediately. Why? According to the draft budget, the State Committee on Nationality and Religion is expected to allocate 17 million 325,000, much less than last year. Of these, $7.5 million for management and the salaries of committee staff. 4 million grevens are allocated to strengthening ties with the Ukrainian diaspora, and another million are allocated to the World Ukrainian Coordinating Council. The Committee provides 3.3 million grivens for settlement, and another 50 million grivens are allocated from the stabilization fund for this purpose. Thus, the Crimean Tatars are proposed to settle, as was the case last year, 53 million. They wanted those 50 million, but they had to be given, not from the stabilization fund, but through the common fund. This once again shows that it is before the elections that they try to play with Crimean Tatars again. But they have to remember that if it's in the stabilization fund, it's just promises, nothing more. The question is: What remains at the committee level to address issues of nationality and religion, the most important of which corresponds to the name of the committee? For nationality, 96.3,000 bracelets remain for measures to implement the European Charter of Regional and Minority Languages. If you distribute this money into speakers of other languages, you get less than one tenth of a kopeck per carrier of another language. What remains of religion? Only 7,000,600 bracelets remain for religion. Dear colleagues! It is true that one figure, one million, 381,000 bracelets, is designed to strengthen the culture of national minorities and to provide financial support to newspapers in minority languages. There's only six of them. But if you look at how they are financed, if you note that only one of these newspapers is beginning to criticize the Government, funding issues are immediately beginning. National minorities produce fines. The question therefore arises: why has the Government not taken and renamed this committee to the Committee for Liaison with the Ukrainian Diaspora? Another 20 million from the Ministry of Culture, 15 million from which the Ministry of Foreign Affairs had established a powerful Department of Liaison with Ukrainians abroad, would have been normal here. As for national minorities, it would be fair to say that the Government was ignoring both linguistic and national rights and was engaged only in nationalization. And we must stop saying that the Government is pro-European, because Europe requires the protection of national and linguistic minorities. And the project needs to be sent to a major refinement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u117	Kenzior Jaroslav Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u118	Ladies and gentlemen of the people's parliament, I may repeat it a little bit because we are looking at the same problem: the 2010 budget. And what more than one speaker was talking about is that, looking at a government bed, there is no government manager, no first person, no finance minister. This suggests that the government understands the cost and expertise of its budget. He understands the hopelessness of this budget. And so absolutely, as it were, pouring water, it's not going to show up here, because, as Julia Volodymyrovna said, the budget will be decided by the Cabinet of Ministers -- and the Prime Minister will be in manual order, in manual mode, to review and manage this budget. But I want to go back once again to, in my view, the most important segment of the life of the Ukrainian state, eventually of every state. It's the ability of the Ukrainian state. From my own perspective and analysis, there is a deliberate, purposeful destruction of the Ukrainian state based on the destruction of the security of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Everyone already knows about the level of security in the 2009 Armed Forces. Even worse is planned for 2010. And bearing in mind the real threats that are now on Ukraine, we remember the President of Russia Medvedev's appeal to the Russian Defence Act, which legitimizes the aggression of the Russian Armed Forces against the states of the courts. And looking at the Prime Minister's initiative to free the Minister of Defense of Ukraine. With this pitiful financial situation in the Armed Forces, the Chief of General Staff resigned. That is, Ukraine today can be taken with its bare hands. But look where the government is looking for a rescue for the Armed Forces. On September 11th of this year, First Deputy Prime Minister Turchinov orders the liquidation, or the privatisation of certain enterprises. And on that list is the only Ukrainian-speaking, pro-Ukrainian newspaper of the Ukrainian Navy. And the First Vice Prime Minister is allowing this newspaper to be eliminated.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u119	Finish up, please, Jaroslav Mikhajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u120	Let me finish?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u121	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u122	You know, you're terrified when they say it's a government of national Democrats, patriots of Ukraine. And when the first vice-premier orders the destruction of the only Ukrainian-speaking, pro-Ukrainian newspaper, I come to a final conclusion: it is a government that is destroying Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u123	Serbian Yuri Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u124	Dear colleagues, we have a very interesting discussion. One of our colleagues came out here and said, “There is no government, there is no coalition, there is nothing.” It is not clear who pays pensions, wages, and so forth, who kept the country from collapse, who kept the country from falling. So instead of having a normal discussion, we're playing political games again. Instead of really talking about where to find the funds, for the army, we need them, we're yelling about it. I think someone wants to take Ukraine with their bare hands. How are we going to protect Ukraine? Once again, the Black Sea fleet is not allowed into Sevastopol without our agreement? So let's be realistic. If we really are discussing the budget we need. In the budget. He's not finished. There are, of course, shortcomings in the budget, so let us work on it. But there are benefits in the budget. Finally, local councils have the right to form their own budget and not wait for anyone to help them. Finally, they will be able to plan for themselves how to repair their roads, how to work, and how to finance schools and institutions to raise their children. It's in this budget. It was in the slogan of all parties, all alliances. Now that the government actually worked that amount, a few thousand budgets, we're saying that this budget is not capable of anything, we're saying that it's very expensive and unrealistic. And at the same time, we're saying that there's not enough for the first, for the second, for the third. They're really not enough. But we're coming out of a crisis, not in a normal situation where we're running out of money, in normal situations, in Victor Fedorovich's government, we're running out of funds for both the reform of the LHK and the construction of housing. Now it's set, yes, not the size we want, but it is. Any notes on the budget? I have as a builder, as a member of the Construction Committee and I have a proposal for this budget. I feel like I have to start, and the only way out of the crisis in housing is really to start building affordable housing. That is, 30 percent should be given by the State. But buildings are not built in one year. So we need to move on to two years of planning. We have to write in this budget that for another year, for 2011 we're also going to have that guarantee. Then people will get this money out of these bags, the money that the state now needs to trade, and they will buy this apartment if we guarantee that the state will compensate them 30 percent in 2011. And it's not budget spending this year, it's going to be budget expenditure in 2011. That's something to think about. We need to think about the drinking water program that is now in place.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u125	Complete, please, Yuri Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u126	But in general, the budget is working, and we have to work on it. And by sending him away, we will harm the entire country and our citizens. Once again, political games. Let's at least be realistic in the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u127	Slata Victor Andryovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u128	Dear colleagues! Anatoly Ivanovich, Merkowski! I'm talking to you. Yesterday, he was in Dnipropetrovsk, and before that, he was in Ravensk, Hmelnick, Cherkask. I couldn't answer one simple question. Every month, from the Ministry of Finance, the budget, the income part is done correctly. There is no budget for the 2010 agri-industrial complex. For an agri-industrial complex, the tenth year has no darkness to talk about. So either the next one is in the field, because there is no darkness in the agro-industry complex. The general fund is down to the point of death. They all went to a stable fund, so called, which was given 5-6 percent of the proposed 2.2 billion for the village in 2009. So that's the catch that's beautiful. And a special fund that is filled with the sale of agricultural land that is not being filled. Catastrophe situation, Anatoly Ivanovich, you're the only one in the Ministry of Finance. In the agricultural sector in all areas for farmers, large farms, small farms, holding companies, private agriculture. Seven rograms in the eighth year of the village's very specific died, and now another seven are being ruled out for 2010. A financial agrarian's portfolio. Its costs -- 0, investment -- investors have run away, loans have to be paid back, loans don't give out the budget -- and there is no budget. All the ingredients are dead, but it's the same chain that the economy has to go through. As I hear from Viktor Andryovich, not Slauti, and the Prime Minister. Do something like that. There are no numbers in the agricultural sector to talk about. And the last. What our faction, the Party of Regions, suggests. 5.5 percent of the budget's income for 2010 and 2 percent of GDP. This is, for example, two billion per social infrastructure. That was it! And that's a small number. These costs are small, for the agricultural sector, to support agricultural and social production will be allocated to the Ministry of Education, professionals, and peasants. There's no third! I'd even like to vote for this budget, just for an agrarian complex, it's impossible. Impossible.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u129	The People's Deputy of Argevite, the faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u130	Stanislav Argevitin, “Our Ukraine”, group “For Ukraine!” Dear colleagues! I would like to say something about government policy with the value of the government, on which half the 2010 budget is built. I'm reminding you that in a classical sense, securities are what happens when the Cabinet of Ministers trades them in the financial market for real money. In our version, usually all the securities are being dug up by the National Bank, which is nothing more than a hidden issue, and that, by the way, was confirmed yesterday by the head of the Supreme Council of Accounts. If the policy of government borrowing through a tool of securities had previously been as if it were a debt in the hands of others in the Cabinet of Ministers. For example, securities in 1999 should be extinguished by 2035. Today, the policy of taking in securities and buying them out by the National Bank is, of course, the orderly nature of the economic downturn, because the hidden issue, which automatically affects the new inflation in six and eight months, cannot help but raise prices, devalue the bracelet, new inflation, which means bankruptcy of businesses and poverty. Today we have a total and guaranteed debt of the state of 220 billion, add what the reporter said today, even more, 100 billion borrowed funds and 45 billion guarantees, and we're going to have 365 billion debt. I remind you, the budget we're looking at here is 360 billion. I would like to remind you that in the 2009 budget it was anticipated that all government debts to the National Bank, which were denominated in currency, would be transferred to securities, that the National Bank would put them on the financial market, that it would get them out of the state of the issue, and that the Cabinet of Ministers would make a profit. This was recorded in the 2009 budget, not implemented, and is not included in the next budget. I would like to remind you that this year the Cabinet of Ministers is introducing another innovation when it buys its own securities. I mean, from the Treasury Department, they buy their securities, I think it's against any economic logic, and by the way, it's forbidden by the Civil Code, when the debtor and the debtor have the same status, the same status. I would like to remind you that it was in the 2009 budget that we were promised that they would withdraw taxes in the 2010 budget that set out a special tax on sales and currency sales. Thus, citizens and landowners will not pay additional taxes. But unfortunately, it's not that it's less than 0.2, but it's now fixed in the standard that the Cabinet of Ministers leaves the right to set up separately. As far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u131	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u132	As far as macroeconomic indicators are concerned, there is an error of at least 20 percent. If the budget is going to go up 4 percent, and in fact in the first quarter we have a down two, that's the second 18th that can be planning. When it comes to inflation, there's not more than 10 percent in the budget, we have 15-20 percent in the real market. I don't think the budget can be accepted in terms of inflation with this kind of error. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u133	The National Deputy Komar is handing over the right to speak to Korjeu College. Please, Victor Korge, give me your word. Then there'll be Paris. Is there a Parish?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u134	Dear colleagues! I would like to draw your attention to the questions related to the preparations for the Euro -2012 program. And questions related to the responsibility of the Ministry for Family, Youth, and Sports. In our time, we have drawn attention to the authorities, the active government, that the financing of the Euro-2012 project from the stabilisation fund is unacceptable. Of course, by saying that this is a priority project for our country, that three valid governments gave 24 state guarantees. And we talked about that in no way can we allow this project to break down -- a state-wide one. He was in a stabilising fund in 2009, and according to the President, his funding for the project “was only 30 per cent. ” And we're two months away from a check mark where we can put, in part or in full, a cross on our European, sports and not just sports hopes. Regarding the Ministry of Family, Youth, and Sports I would like to point out this: that in 2007 the Ministry's budget was above a billion dollars; in 2008 it was at 700 million; this year 800 million. [[And that's the dollar that counted the budget -- 5.05 dollars per dollar.]] It's planned for about a billion. It's in real measure -- it's the biggest reduction in all of the years of independence. And what that led to is this year, and this trend is going to be for the next year -- shortening the very important programs of sport, of the physical health of the nation. Please tell your peers who do not understand that the guarantee of proper use of sports facilities is their presence. Our health recommendations include the opportunity to visit them. And what we see is that, in developing the material and technical base of sport, a valid government plans to allocate 2 million 700,000 dollars. This is exactly a hundred times less than the government of Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic has set aside for these purposes. It's just an unprecedented case. The construction of sports palaces, which have already been built, has been halted. And there were plans to build them in all the district centers. Short - lived promenades for the construction of football courses, sports training complexes, and other simple, affordable sports facilities for our population. Short - term programs to support young people, children, and young people. Dear colleagues, I express the opinion of all the deputies of our faction. Such a shameful budget offered by the Ministry of Family Affairs
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u135	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u136	Not yet, and I would certainly like to support the proposal. Complete processing. Reshape the budget for youth policy, physical culture, sports, preparations for the Olympic Games, as well as the financing of the Euro-2012 for the following year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u137	Thank you. A colleague of Paris, the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense", will be followed by Vladimir Rybak.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u138	Papuy Andry, “For Ukraine”, “Our Ukraine”. Deputies, respected Ukrainians, in fact two spheres of public policy are those who should not be influenced by political intrigue. It's a national defense and it's an external relationship. Looking at the 2010 budget, it seems that, in fact, in those two areas, the government is deliberately the sharpest and most catastrophic blow. The only thing that's particularly important before the presidential election is that there are about a dozen presidential candidates, people who will be responsible tomorrow, who will claim to be responsible for national defence and for external relations. And that's why I want to get to the knowledge that the financing of the Ukrainian budget is in those areas. So in the field of external relations. As Mr. Kirilenko has already stressed, there is a catastrophic lack of funds for diplomatic institutions. I'd like to call the other numbers. This year's budget is 150 million dollars short of Ukraine's contribution to the UN budget of United Nations bodies and special agencies and other international organizations. In case of non-contribution, Ukraine will be deprived of voting rights in a number of organizations and in accordance with its participation in financial and technical assistance projects. This is one of the elements of the default when the state is unable to pay membership fees to the international organizations in which it is located. This is a huge catastrophic blow to the image of Ukraine on the outside. At the same time, this government, which allegedly opposes itself as pro-European in the 2010 draft budget, does not provide for a single single, I stress, or a penny for the national programme, for national policies in the field of information to the Ukrainian public on matters of Euro-Atlantic and European integration. This is a conscious purposeful breakdown of our external affairs, which is already coming in extremely critical today. Our diplomatic representation abroad has nothing to pay for utilities, our diplomatic workers have no funds for medical insurance, even so that they can return to their homeland on vacation. And all of this is happening in our eyes, and they want to do it with the MPs and the MPs. The Ukrainian Armed Forces have already been mentioned as the second important sphere. This seems to be a deliberate policy for the destruction of the Ukrainian army. I would like to remind you of the famous words: “If you do not feed your army, tomorrow this state will feed the enemy army.” I have the impression that the government is deliberately pursuing such a policy that tomorrow we will have to feed our northern neighbour's army. And these threats, and these threats coming from the north about Ukraine from the Kremlin, they have to make each of the deputies think about the ability of the Ukrainian State every day. The Ukraine MP will not vote in favour of such a draft budget to any extent until there is an increase in funding.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u139	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u140	Until funding for security, national defence and security is increased, and for external relations. And now we recommend that this draft budget be sent to the government for work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u141	Dear colleagues, Vladimir Vasilovich Ribak is invited to attend. National MP Popov, please, faction of the Party of the Regions. Tetjana Bachevi will then perform.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u142	Dear colleagues! It was only yesterday that we in this room and from this rostrum actively discussed housing and utility issues and resented the rising tariffs, the problems of energy supply. But today's document, which we are discussing in the draft budget for 2010, is another funeral march in Ukraine's housing and utility. It is not clear to the Government that when energy prices are rising. One of the main activities that will curb tariff growth will stabilize the financial and economic situation in the industry, with the aim of introducing energy-saving technologies. The introduction of modern technologies that will avoid the emergency of systems that will save the resources that unfortunately we additionally charge the population in Ukraine every year with an increase in housing and utility prices. Because this budget ignores all the public programmes previously adopted in our country. These are programmes that have to do with maintaining order in drinking water, improving its quality. These are programmes related to the renewal of urban electricity; these are programmes related to the problem of submerging the territory of the country; this is the end of the housing and utility reform programme that we have adopted with you in a new edition this year. We in 2009, i.e. this year, have reduced its funding to almost zero. Next year we're putting 500 million into a special fund, into a stabilization fund that we won't get again and we're not going to fund those programmes again. Without this, society will not have the expectations of improving the quality of housing and utility services. Next moment. Let us look at budgets, including government agencies. Indeed, through the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Health and other ministries, we finance housing and utility services by 50 per cent. Well, is it not clear that these are the risks of hospitals, schools, educational institutions, as unfortunately it was in January of this year, losing its heat? Is this not one of the most important public problems in our country? In the end, let's show political will, let's go to the Government to solve these problems.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u143	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u144	One billion bracelets are required in accordance with the laws adopted next year. Let us support this kind of policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u145	Aunt Dmitry's Baychev, faction of the Party of the Regions. Next is Mikola Janović Azarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u146	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished people's deputies, what the Government has presented today is very difficult to call the country's budget for a year. It's just a set of numbers taken from the ceiling. Because the most terrible and most terrible thing is that the Government has decided to save the most important road on the road to the health of our Ukrainians. Unfortunately, the Government may not know, but it appreciates the United Nations World Health Organization as the worst demographic situation in our country, at the level of the poorest countries in the world. We take first place in mortality, we take first place in the tuberculosis epidemic, we take first place in the number of cancers. And if I start to list for you today the morbidity structure that is in our country, it might take more than a few days. I would like to point out that there are 90 million visits per year in our country, and our citizens are going there because they do not need qualified medical care. Today's funding provided by the Government is only 40, sometimes even 30 per cent, and sometimes 20 per cent of what is needed. And out of the 37 billion bracelets, with the minimum necessary allocation of 60 billion, 90 per cent of these funds will be directed towards the salaries of health workers, who are the lowest in our country. Today, a doctor receives less than a conductor than he gets a yard, than a conductor gets a yard, than a security guard receives a thousand 300 bracelets a month. I want to ask the government: can you live on $100 today for $130? What are you going to do with the medics today? What are you forcing 1 million medical workers today to live in the operations that save the lives of our people today? I would like to point out that children are dying in our country today because we do not have the equipment we need. Yes, we were also in Dnepropetrovsk, our committee, which is represented by all the people's deputies. We know the case in which the prosecutor's office opened a criminal case. The child died because of the absence of a kuvez, there was no equipment that was needed, there was no curosorf, a drug that would enable the child to live. Why the government doesn't understand what it is today.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u147	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u148	The financing of the industry is simply a genocide of the Ukrainian people. Our committee does not support it. We strongly insist on the allocation of 10 billion bracelets, which are essential for increasing the wages of health workers, namely the purchase of equipment, and the acquisition of medicines under the Oncology, Tuberculosis and Cardiovascular Diseases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u149	Azarov Mikola Janović. Sergey Tereshuk will be next. Then get ready for Giga Mikola.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u150	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! I want to focus your attention on the subject that Stanislav Arzhevitin raised. On our committee, we discussed how this budget would affect the exchange rate. So I have to report to you that it will affect you in the most negative way. If the budget rate is set, the exchange rate, I mean, 7 and a half, well, that is, the ephemeral, non-profit rate, which can't really be, for a number of reasons, yes, we are thinking about what the course will be, if the Government comes out in 2010 with the loans provided for in the budget. That is, it will release 120 billion unsecured emission bracelets into the internal market. Please answer a simple question and answer the Ukrainian people with me: how much will he receive in exchange for his pension, his salary, how much will the prices go up? Therefore, the issue of the stability of our national currency is not a matter of the National Bank and not only of the National Bank, it is primarily a matter of government budgetary policy. Let us add that we will have to repay about 20 billion of our loans in 2010. Do you think the exchange rate will be affected by such repayment? I don't want anyone, God forbid, I don't want to panic. But do we have to be, after all, responsible people or irresponsible? Add to this the state guarantees that our good government, your government, has already managed to pay over 40 billion. For example, such an office called Horn and Cope, which had only two tables and three chairs, took 500 million under State guarantees. Do you think it's capable of using your own resources to pay back that $500 million? I don't think it's hard to guess, one hundred returns for "Food supplies" will be the State of Ukraine, i.e. the Ukrainian budget. Therefore, no respected budget is balanced, Anatoly Ivanovich. In addition to all the other risks that have been discussed here, it is still the largest.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u151	Do it, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u152	It has an even greater risk of destabilizing the exchange rate. I therefore agree with Argevitina 100 per cent that this budget must be returned immediately to the Government for serious processing. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u153	Mikola Vasilovich Giga, please. Please. Then there will be Olena Lukash.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u154	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished members of the people! I would like to draw your attention to the problem in the State, such as the organization of the fight against crime and the protection of public order. Everyone knows that the situation in the country has been very severe lately, and the situation of criminogenicity has worsened very seriously. The funding provided by the figures of the draft budget cannot today adequately affect the situation. If you take, for example, that programs that. State anti-drug programmes are not budgeted at all for the following year. The programme to prevent and combat juvenile delinquency is those government programmes that have always been funded, and they have not found their funding in the budget at all. Those programmes, which deal with illegal migration, with road safety programmes, have not been confirmed in this project at all. I am no longer talking about the very low funding of internal affairs. Today, only the salaries of militia personnel are financed. Other issues, logistics, maintenance of premises, temporary detention facilities are all devoted to police officers, district chiefs generally finding opportunities on the ground. And that, you know, leads to abuse and various violations. Another problem, the figures in the budget for the law enforcement unit, are in principle no different from those in the previous budget. But there's a $2.5 billion stake in that. What's a SPF? Specfonde is what the police do. These police profits should not be the work of the law enforcement system at all. Well, imagine, now the D.A. will make money, the courts will make money, and the police will. The main revenue lines should therefore be increased. The budget for the maintenance of the Ministry of Internal Affairs to ensure that public security, prevention and crime prevention can be properly financed in our State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u155	Olena Lukash, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u156	Respectable voters! Dearly-respected are those who are present. Dear colleagues, my colleagues are lawyers with a professional holiday today. And to whom I sincerely wish to congratulate you on this holiday. And wish ourselves and you alone that we may be proud of our country, our profession and the fruits of the work that we do, rather than being synonymous with the words of Christmas Eve, corruption or what power is forcing us to do today. And having examined the Government's present present budget, which is absent from the Government, I would like to say that the hopes that my wish will be fulfilled are very limited. For only two reasons, this budget is a mockery of lawyers and our professional holiday. First, because it is based on non-existent legal instruments that do not exist and we are invited to vote on such a budget. The second is because it does not finance either the judiciary or the judiciary, which must also refer to disputes between the two other branches of government and rely on the sole purpose of protecting human rights. Just think, the draft budget provides for the financing of the courts and their salaries by only 52 per cent and the necessary needs of the courts and judges by only 20 per cent. In 2010, the Presidents of the courts would have to demonstrate great ingenuity in ensuring the work of their agencies. It is important to note that, in particular, 100 per cent of the courts will not be provided with stamps, envelopes, papers, court space, or administrative court development, i.e. citizens will be protected from the authorities. There will be no funding for the establishment of the Wine and Cetaceans Administrative Courts, as provided for by the Presidential Decree. What the judges themselves say about this is that, as of first May 2009, the Court of Appeal of Kharkiv, Zacarpathian, Zaporozhye District, Shevchenkov Region, Kyiv District Court, almost all District Administrative Courts, Lvivski, Lugani Administrative Courts. And soon that list will grow. I now quote you from the Ukrainian Council of Judges to the President of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Prime Minister of Ukraine, of the treatment that no one has ever heard. Think of the figure: five bracelets are provided for one case in a court of law, no matter whether it's civil or criminal. That's less than the cost of mail, the judges will lose their salary, people will lose their justice. That, knowingly, the destruction of justice in the country, is negligence, we will find an answer to this question very soon, because other factions will vote in favour of the draft Budget Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u157	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I have such a request, if you don't mind, to continue our work for 15 minutes, to complete the consideration of the matter. All of it. Dear colleagues! Time's up, we've got a closing statement to make right now. One minute, please. I ask now from the Cabinet of Ministers a closing word, please speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u158	Vladimir Vyezowski, “Our Ukraine”, the MP group “For Ukraine!” All of us here are national deputies and the Ukrainian people should observe that the government is far from what is being proposed here and what we are talking about. We can certainly say that, just as the 2004 elections were before, the prime minister here, who was standing and promised and paid additional pension allowances, and today, just like the previous and previous elections to the local councils, Julia Volodymyrna was handing out her “pressure” to the people and only half was able to provide. It's the same now. But this “thousand” will go, not even to the pensioners who stood behind it day and night and grinded around the Saving Banks – this thousand, or maybe two will fall over the FAP, the school, the village council. But I want to assure you, dear colleagues of teachers, doctors and local self-government, you're not going to be able to manage that thousand because today we're meeting with the prosecutor's office on the spot, and last week we've been working as national constituencies in the constituencies.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u159	Please enable the completion of the statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u160	Prosecutors wipe their hands because today is exactly what this rostrum stated, we are preparing a budget that is not legal. Because it's referring to the budget, and today we've seen in this rostrum -- we've indicated that 12 million additional funds for local self-government must come through to accept the new budget. The new budget is not adopted, which means it is self-sufficient on the part of those who reported the 2010 budget today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u161	Dear colleagues, we have completed our consideration of the matter. Please, Merkovsky Anatoly Ivanovich, there were questions for you. Summaries. Please calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u162	Thank you. No, I think I'll be here. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies, I would like to say that the Budget Code clearly defines the budget schedule. The corresponding part of the course of article 39 is determined that no later than five days later, the Supreme Council will review the presentation of the budget of the Cabinet of Ministers. Let's move on. By October 1st, the legislators, namely the national MPs, factions, have to submit their proposals to the budget committee for a bill submitted by the government. Article 40 states that no later than October 20, the State Budget Act should be read first for the following year. So our proposal is to take into account all the comments and suggestions made today by the national MPs as a result of the discussion. Submit these proposals to the budget committee to include them in the comparative table prepared by the budget committee and to consider these proposals at a meeting of the budget committee. That's why we don't support the 5000/P regulation on the rejection of the proposed government's draft law, because it's going to delay the budgetary process and we're not going to be on the schedule. As an alternative, we can support the draft regulation 5000/P-1. And we think it's appropriate that a working group of authorized representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers can prepare proposals for inclusion, once again, for the conclusions of the budget committee. So we're going to unlock the budget situation, and we're going to be doing the budget process according to the timetable set by the law, the Budget Code. I'd like to say about the individual proposals that were made to the Ministry of Finance. That for today's nine months, we've funded 100 percent of the cost of the wages on those mines that are funded from the state budget. There will also be no debt by the end of the year, since we have full financial resources for these expenses. We fully ensure payment of salary to the non-profit level and payment of pensions. The problems that we're going to solve with the state mines' pension contributions this year and next year with two sources: the first is the implementation of the accumulated coal products in warehouses, as well as mutual debt write-offs between the state budget, the Pension Fund and business entities. Regarding the definition of pension grants in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on Promoting Prosperity.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u163	Please finish because we have to make decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u164	Yeah. With regard to the payment of increased pensions in accordance with the Ukrainian Act on the prestige of mining work, and I would like to say that in the 2010 budget, this programme is allocated as a fund manager of the Ministry of Finance and as a responsible executive of the Pension Fund. code, I could even call it, programs 3513070, the sum of 4.1 billion dollars on the 146th page of the first page of the first page is clearly defined, so it's not related to the expenditure included in the Mincarbonprom. And I would like to say two words on the issues raised about activities, more loyally, financial support for agricultural production. That's next year's total and special fund, including a stable fund, an increase of 1.6 billion dollars or 14.5 percent. This year's problem of filling up the stabfond is all-knowing: fully blocked privatization and arrivals are practically less than 10 percent. In the following year, we think and hope that there will be no such problem. Therefore, these expenses will be provided by a percentage of the total. And one more word about the Agrarian Foundation. I want to get two digits. As of January 1, 2008, the remaining grains of the Agrarian Fund amounted to 500,000 tons, to date to 1.3 million tons. Normative is 1 million tons. So I think we're still providing support.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u165	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. We have two draft regulations: 5000-P. No, there is no closing statement. Come on, dear fellows. The closing word is given to the reporter and to the coconspirator. And the second solution is 5000-P1. In this regard, the word is derived from Oleg Zarubinsky. He didn't report it. Please. Very quickly, please, come on, because we don't have time.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u166	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The paradoxical effect of the discussion is that no one really needs the budget. It's really such an impression. But the question is that the same budget is not for the government, not for the future president, but that no one today knows who this is going to be, not for the Supreme Council. It must be for the people, it must be for the people. So, to our conviction, it's easier to take and transfer the government's budget, and then it's not going to be known when and with what quality it's going to be put back. Obviously, since no one needs him, he will hang there for a very long time. We have a different offer. To make this budget an object or subject for the work of the entire Supreme Council. Because Kabmin has to work, and the Supreme Council has to work. We have a lot of comments we see real proposals to improve this budget, to change it, to make a big difference. And so I'm proposing a Supreme Council regulation project, if you allow it to be very short, for the transcript, I have to read it to be true. Taking into account the state and trend in the socio-economic sphere, bearing in mind the importance of the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2010 for the country's viability and taking into account the Parliament's first reading bill, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides: firstly, to consider it necessary to establish a joint working group and members of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on budgetary matters and authorized representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers for the preparation of relevant proposals for the draft Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2010 [[on increasing the size of national social standards]] The other one. To the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, within two days of the adoption of this decree, approve the composition of the joint working group. And the third. A joint working group will prepare proposals for the draft conclusion of the bill within two weeks. Finally, the position of the Lithuanian bloc is rigid and clear: on November 20, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is to vote in the second reading for the Act on the Promotion of Social Guarantees. This is what we're going to do, and this is our irreversible position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u167	Dear colleagues, we've discussed everything in order. I'll put it to a vote. Please. Well, Alexander Sergiyovich. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, please. All right, let's move on to the vote. Please lock position.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u168	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, I cannot help but say so. If we had discussed the two orders that had been drawn up, including Pecklusenko Aleksandra Nikolaevich, he had made them, then the ruling that had just been made by our distinguished colleague had not been discussed. And the ruling is really serious, and there are some issues that need to be clarified. We therefore need to discuss this regulation and then move on to a general vote. Otherwise, we will not comply with a number of rules of the Rules, and I do not know how the decision will then be dealt with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-08-m1.u169	Dear colleagues, let's do it this way. Please! One moment, dear fellows, please! Let's do it this way: we're going to end up voting now. If we don't make any decisions, then we'll have a discussion, yes. That's why I'm asking you, because today is such a tough day. What's more, I want to inform you right now that tomorrow we're going to take up the proposal that we made here, especially the BIT factions, and it's as if we agreed in the working order, we're not going to be looking at personnel issues. We'll work on issues we haven't considered this week. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the draft decree, registration number 5000/p on the deviation and the aim of the draft State Budget Act for Ukraine for 2010. Author, National Deputy, Ukraine, Alexander Pecklusenko. [[6:13:39]] For 204 The decision is not taken. May I have your attention, by the factions, please? Well, calm down. The factions. Region Party – 163, "Block of Timoshenko" – 0, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" – 3, Communist faction – 27, "Block of Lithuania" – 0, non-fractional – 7. I am introducing a draft resolution on the preparation for the review of the draft Regulation on the preparation of the draft Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2010. [[Registration number 5000/P1]] The author is Oleg Zarubinski. For the adoption of the draft decision as a decision. Please vote. [[18:14:29]] For 204 By factions, please don't make a decision. Region Party – 0, "Timoshenko Yulia Block" – 150, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" – 34, Communist faction – 0, "Litvina Block" – 20, non-fractional – 0. Dear colleagues, tomorrow we will begin our work on the question that we will hear parliamentary inquiries, and then we will work on the schedule that has been set for this week, and on the issues that have not yet been considered. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed.
