ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:00:13]] They registered cards in the 403 national deputies’ session hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now continue our consideration of the issues related to the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the election of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local councils and city heads. [[on the characteristics of the establishment of territorial electoral commissions for the introduction of open lists of candidates to the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the local councils]] Dear colleagues, we spoke on the Conciliation Council about the huge number of drafts, a huge array of drafts to be considered by the reduced procedure and by the morning. There were two suggestions. The first suggestion was that the Supreme Council of Ukraine would work before the completion of its consideration of the issues set out in the schedule for one day or another. Well, I understand the unpredictability of such a question. I have a big request. I would like to vote in favour of reviewing the bills in short notice. I'm asking you to back me up. Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, please support. Let's look at it in a simplified way. [[16:02:09]] For 135 The decision is not taken. Well, please mobilize and then I'll put your proposal to the vote again. I am voting for the return to the consideration of bills under reduced procedure. Please vote, Your Honor. [[16:02:52]] For-157. No, the decision is made. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? It's a procedural question. I'm putting a motion to vote to review the bills on a reduced procedure. Please vote. Your Honor, you need to look at the bill and everything. [[16:03:29]] For 116 The decision is not taken. A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the election of deputies to the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local councils and city heads is being announced for consideration. [[on the characteristics of the formation of territorial electoral commissions and the introduction of open lists of candidates to the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the local councils]] [[Registration number 1458]] The rapporteur is the national deputy of Ukraine, Sergey Petrovich Podgorny. Correspondent is Deputy Head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government Yuri Bogdanovic Klukkowski. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u2	Honorable Presidium, Honorable Colleagues, Honorable Voters! The bill proposes to amend the Law on the Election of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local councils and city heads in part on the formation of territorial election committees, as well as the introduction of open lists. The purpose of the bill is to ensure the independence of the territorial electoral commissions of the relevant local authorities, the coordinated work of the district electoral committees on the day of the vote. The experience we have today is a great many cases where the boards that formed their territorial election boards then have a very negative impact on the work of these committees. In order to avoid this addiction, the bill proposes that the territorial election commissions form, not appropriate councils, but for a higher level. Except for the territorial and electoral commission of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, which will be formed by the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, as well as the territorial and electoral commissions of the district, as well as the cities of Kiev, Sevastopol, which will be formed by the Central Election Commission. All other committees are formed by higher-level councils. Thus, the territorial commission for the election of the district deputies is formed by a district council. The territorial-election commission for the election of city deputies, the cities of regional importance are also formed by the district council. And if the city has a district value, then the commission is formed by a district council accordingly. This is the first position. The second position on reconciliation in the work of the commission itself, already referred to as a divisional commission. The experience of some countries shows that there is some prejudice on the part of the commission’s head, that there should be no complaints about the fact that the commission’s responsibilities are unbiased, that there is some prejudice on the part of the commission’s head, that there should be drawing lots on the electoral day at the beginning of the day of the distribution of the members of the commission. Such a novelty. And the latest novel, which today is so fashionable and probably only a lazy politician today didn't say that he was on the open list, that's what makes open lists. What the bill is proposing. First of all, then. The number of candidates in the voter list should be at least the number of members of the board. Today, the bill suggests, more faithfully, that today’s law is no more. We offer no less. In order for there to be some reserve of candidates to be appointed on a case where either an imperative mandate is applied, or some other case, so that there are still no vacant seats on boards that, for example, are on some boards today. That's the first one. The other one. In the newsletter it's suggested, so write down the list of parties, order is defined by drawing, next to the name of the parties corresponding to the square, where the voter places the note for which he votes. The list is followed by the following: “From the list of selected local party organisations, I support the candidate – number”. And to this newsletter, every voter gets, so-called, an addition to the newsletter, where all the lists of all the local party centers that take part in the election are printed. And depending on who he chooses, he puts a number next to that record. If it's a council that has a number of deputies up to 99 included, there's two squares and it puts two digits that make up exactly the order number of this deputy. If the council has more than 99 deputies, and we have these, it's mostly district councils, big cities, there's 120-150 deputies, then three empty squares, where it also misplaces this candidate's number. After the vote, already a district election committee, the bill proposes a mechanism, how it counts the votes for these candidates, and then the territorial election commission grieves and corrects the list, which was approved by the party, except for the first three. That is, the first three are the local leaders of the parties that are not being corrected in the bill. In that case, if the number of votes for two or three candidates matches, the list will be above the one who had a higher position at the offer of the party itself. The bill under consideration by the Science and Technology Administration has some flaws. But I think that when you go to second reading, you can avoid all of them. So please support me in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u3	Thank you, Sergey Petrovich. Please ask the reporter. Weaving Roman Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u4	Roman Tkac, MP “For Ukraine!” [[I'm here.]] Dear reporter, I would still like you to argue the purpose of creating a higher-level TVC board, because, to me, today it is absolutely transparent when these TVC committees form political parties and the impact of councils is practically minimized, virtually minimized. The Council only works here when this committee is not fully formed. Now that they're forming for a higher level, they're actually going to be party TV. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u5	Well, first of all, the boards form not party organizations, but councils at party organisations. The bill also proposes to form party organizations, but, for example, the city commission is formed not by a city council but by a district council. Why? We have cases, for example, when it comes to the election of deputies, and it was necessary for the territorial election commission to make a decision, the city council is very simple to dissolve this commission, and no one else to appoint these elections. And by law, only a commission can appoint these elections. And unfortunately, there are many cases where the local council, which is supposed to facilitate the work of the commission, is blocking the work. That's why it's suggested here that the council of the highest level form this commission, once again, at the suggestion of party organisations.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u6	Kilincarov Spiridon Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u7	You know, there are over a hundred political parties in the regions. It is difficult for me to imagine how we are going to hold local council elections if, say, in the district centres, a person has to come to the polls and vote for regional council deputies, for city council deputies, for district council deputies, plus what you said, the list will be registered, a full list of candidates. We're supposed to have 120 people in Lugansk County only on the district council, 70 people on the city council and 50 people on the district councils, we'll assume. It is necessary to publish whole books in order for the electorate to come to this station and choose from this the number of people for whom he will vote. Well, I think that's a totally unacceptable option. Even if you want to make those lists open somehow. It will simply be impossible to do so technologically.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u8	The point is that experience has shown that not all 120 or 140 parties, or 170 parties, are taking part in local elections. Moreover, not all parties have such a branched system of centers. And the legislation stipulates that they're taking part of the parties that have these centers. If everyone has to choose: either open lists, if we declare it, or a completely different system should be offered, for example, for today's. That draft electoral code, which is also in Parliament today. We need to be chosen.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u9	Moisik Volodymyr Romanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u10	Vladimir Moisik, MP “For Ukraine!” Please pass the word to your colleague, Andrey.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u11	Paribay Andrey, “For Ukraine! ” Dear Mr. Reporter! I have two questions right now. First question. Do you not think that raising the threshold to 7 percent for political parties is a significant restriction on citizens’ rights? As a result of this increase in the barrier, a number of citizens who vote for political forces that have gained less than 7 percent will be left without representation in the local authorities. And the second question. Why do you have to remove the item “I do not vote for any candidate” so consistently from the "Julia Block of Timoshenko"? There is an active and passive position of citizens. We know that so many citizens today are just followers of that “I do not support any candidate”. Yes, it's up to two laws, both the President and the locals. Where did this concept come from? We know that 7 percent was still in that position.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u12	Andrew Volodymyrovich, please have your second question. Recorded one more time.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u13	I will still answer the questions about this bill. Seven percent. Where did this figure come from? Frankly, I don't think that if there's 3 percent in the district council, where there's 30 deputies, and the party takes that 3 percent, and there's one MP who's going to do some work for the electorate. Thus, exactly 7 percent was proposed. But when we discuss this bill in the committee, we have agreed that it is probably for the local elections that we have to make a floating percentage, depending on the number of members of the council. If the number of deputies in the council is large and it allows with a 3% barrier to have at least 3 deputies, it could be 3%. And if the council is so small that 3 percent don't give a single mandate, which may be on some boards, then the question is, why this percentage?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u14	Sebravsky Paul Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u15	Dear colleagues, well, look, you're on a talk show, not you, but from your political power, enough say that elections to local self-government should go to the majority system. And, in large numbers, that would be right, because these people would represent the community, not the political parties, and actually they wouldn't stand for the leader, because the leader has a rating, and then they pick up so much that they don't know who else is missing on the list of people to come to the council. So that's the leader's rating, not actually the political power and the people who should represent the community. As a result, do you not think that lists are not open to local authorities but to the major decision - making system? And that would be a representation. And in this section: 3 to 7 percent. If you kill 7 percent, you will limit the number of people who choose a political power in their constitutional right to represent them in the local government. I mean, this.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u16	Well, first of all, I think the questions that are being considered at the talk show are being considered at the talk show. I don't think Parliament, the Supreme Council, is the place to look at the ideas of the talk show. That's the first one. The other one. As far as the majority system is concerned. You realize that if there is a political will in this room today, there is no problem, make this bill, and if the Supreme Council decides, it will vote. I think the proportional system hasn't exhausted itself yet. It is possible to apply open lists and try how it will work at the local level and then look at the parliamentary elections. And as for the percentage, I already said that we agreed that we could make a floating percentage, so let's say again for big advice it could be a small percentage, because three percent, that would give you three, four, five mandates. It's a normal MP faction. And if I'm on the board, once again, I say 30 deputies, three percent, it doesn't even have one deputy. And what will one MP do, I'm sorry?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u17	The sand, Ivan Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u18	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear Sergey Petrovich, you have spoken of what is proposed in the bill, that lots will be offered to lead the commission on the day of the election or the electoral process. The point is, if there were people who were trained, lawyers and so on, there would be no problem. And what you offer, every political force, especially at the district level and so on, will not always bring people who are trained. As a result, you will question the results of the elections because many of them will not write the protocols correctly. What are you looking at? How do I eliminate this conflict? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u19	The point is, as you say, I've seen in elections in some countries, like Georgia. And the bill proposes by drawing lots to distribute the following functions: rotation at the entrance to the polling station to regulate the voter’s electoral flow, issuing a ballot in accordance with part seven of the corresponding article, and altering the ballot boxes. You can see how many complaints were made when they say that a voter comes with a corresponding mark, either on a latin, or in a passport, comes up to the appropriate member of the election committee and receives an electoral ballot on a foreign passport. In order not to allow this to happen, a member of the electoral commission should not be assigned in advance to a position where a ballot is issued and only these functional duties of the members of the commission are required to be drawn up. As far as they're not prepared, you know, we've been looking at a bill, it's unfortunately not accepted yet, but in the Electoral Code, these rules are that members of election committees should prepare in advance, pass.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u20	Young Andrey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u21	Papuy Andrey, “For Ukraine” MP. Mr. Reporter, you never answered my question why you are proposing to delete the "I do not support any of the candidates". I think this is a significant limitation of a significant number. our citizens who want to come to the election and express their position on the point that I am not supporting any of the candidates. And yet another question about open-list systems is that it's very positive that Yulia Timoshenko's Block finally got to that understanding. But I think this election system is good for the Supreme Council as well. Do you not think that it would be good for the local elections to return the electorate to a particular district, to return the majority system, where people will know their deputy, who will be close to them, and will be able to keep in contact and dialogue with him? Do you not think that this system needs to be modernized under the Supreme Council and the local councils need to restore the majority system of elections? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u22	Well, first of all, "against all." You know, there are recommendations from the Venice Commission, there is. This standard is in operation in many European countries. So I think it worked very well for us. This is the first time. Second of all, as far as Yulia Tymoshenko is concerned, it's just arrived. This bill has been registered in Parliament for two years, it will be in January. As to whether this system could be applied in parliamentary elections, I said let's try the local elections, and then let's see how it works. And if you talk about opening lists to parliament, I think it's more important for our voters to know who's on the lists of the political party today and to choose one or the other political party. If there are odous figures there that they don't want, they won't vote for the list as a whole. So the task is open lists, not in the voting process, but in the process of getting to know the list. And I've also registered such a bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u23	The report from the committee is by Klukkowski Yuri Bogdanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u24	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the bill that is proposed to your mind is, indeed, very long ago registered with the Supreme Council and has long been considered by our committee. But anyway, it's the first thing he's ever done in trying to put that concept into practice, which today doesn't change to different talk shows unless it's a lazy politician, the concepts of open election lists. I think that the idea of closed electoral lists has come to the fore, at least in society, I don't know how the political party leaders here are represented in Parliament. So the first and the principle of the trait of the bill that is currently being discussed is the attempt to introduce, in fact, the electoral system of open party lists in the local elections. Immediately, I want to say that the problem of the election barrier is closely linked to it, and the 7 percent figure in the bill is really high. Because many, including the recommendations of European institutions, know that the election barrier is acceptable between 3 and 5 percent. However, I would like to point out that in the majority electoral system of lost votes much more than even 7 percent of the barrier. So let us be consistent in our criticism. The next problem to be taken into account is the formation of election committees. Sergey Petrovich has already mentioned the questions that we have raised every time local elections are announced, and at the local level there are out - of - turn elections. To those who are not convinced by the example of Witness, I would like to remind them of the recent Ternopil elections, where, literally, two district election committees functioned in parallel during the last month. The temptation to transform the electoral commission into a re-election will always be present. To make it independent of the body that's going to the elections, I think it's a serious proposal, it needs to be supported. Next question is the vote against everyone. I would like to remind the voters of the rights of the electorate where the vote against everyone came from. It's a rudimentary vote by extermination when we refused to delete. And even in the 97th law, they switched to what's called, a positive vote. For those who loved to delete everyone, the "against all" option remained. However, the question always arises, is it a candidate against all, or who is it to distribute votes, and how do we take into account the results of the vote against all in the distribution of mandates? The Russian Federation had been confused about these issues for a long time, there were four decisions of the Constitutional Court, and at last today they gave up the “against all” option. No modern European state knows this option, so let's not go back to this glorious Soviet past. Let's finally understand that voting is an act of voter will towards the future. And someone who doesn't want to vote for anyone can throw an incomplete ballot or not go to the elections, and that's also a choice, and that's a position that all European institutions take. And the last thing I want to say is that we don't accept the bill as a whole today. Today we're talking about the concept of the bill, and once again, I want to emphasize its central element. Two weeks ago, the Supreme Council commissioned our committee to submit drafts for consideration by the Supreme Council that suggested moving to open party lists. The committee has done so, and the committee is asking you to support it in the first reading. There are serious problems that require further work and a committee ready, along with all interested Ukrainian national deputies working in this direction. But today’s vote will show that we are willing only to talk about open lists or to go to open lists. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u25	The question to the coconspirator. Please. Matvienko Anatoly Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u26	Ukrainian Republican Party "Cobor", "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" Block. Yuri Bogdanovich! Please tell me, we're reading the Constitution, we don't have high-level, low-level advice -- we have a basic level, we have a district, we have a district level. We're introducing some sort of womb vertical or is that a violation of the Constitution? Since the district and district levels are designed to achieve common interests or protect the common interests of the territorial communities, that's the first question. And the second. Don't you think it's not exactly a legal and correct rule that gets most of it. For example, for John, who stood at the end of the list, only two men were supported, and most supported the list he had. So John will be the fourth or the fourth? And finally, the final question. And why are there so many preferences in the first three that these are holy people, if we're already doing the kind of democracy that we're going to introduce. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u27	First of all, I'm not reporting as the author of the bill, but your questions should have been addressed to the author first. I can say that many of the details in this bill I disagree with. In particular, with a threesome, it's a question that's debated. As for the formation of a commission, the term “higher” here is undoubtedly jargon. And it's not in the bill. What's more, my belief that this is not a function, in general, is that I'm glad that we should do it vertically by election boards starting at the center and going on. I like that scheme better. Yet these are things that need to be discussed in preparation for the second reading – we are not now adopting a bill as a whole. So when I take some point in your question that these positions in the bill are questionable, once again, I want to emphasize that the central element of the bill is open lists. And today's vote will be a vote for whether we want to make open lists or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u28	Weaving Roman Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u29	Roman Tkac, MP “For Ukraine!” Dear Yuri Bogdanovich! I know you've long been a supporter of the proportional election system and I basically support it at the central level. But still, now that it's not the author of the bill, but as from the committee, please, in one minute, just argue why a proportional election system is at the local level, which means parties in some rural area. Now, please give open lists, how does a person in one area know who is in these lists from another area. Come on, we've talked about this, we've been politicizing this issue. Talking about what someone's buying, we're already seeing cases like parties buying, that's not the point. Basic life is concentrated, especially in rural areas, in district councils, and it deals with issues that need to be addressed for the region, how people can live, how to learn, how to treat. And that system, as it was major, that man knows who to approach: John, Mikola, Maryka, is still the best system. So that there's no counterfeiting, let's work it out somehow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u30	In answer first, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that “someone is going to Mikola and some are going to Mary’s” and that the question remains unresolved. I am not a firm opponent of the majority electoral system, the choice of the electoral system is a matter of political relevance to a large extent. Moreover, I am convinced that the only district and district list does not correspond to the status of the district councils and district councils listed in the 140th article of the Constitution, which is my long-standing position, which I have repeatedly addressed. However, I would like to remind you of your arguments made in the question to Sergei Podgorny, you said that if a high barrier is lost, many voices are lost. So I want to remind you that in the majority majority majority majority majority majority majority of the majority of the majority, if the winner is 20 percent of the votes, 80 percent of the votes are lost in this district, and these people have voted in vain. So that's the question. We want people to be interested in the elections and to be molded according to their will.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u31	Please complete your response.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u32	Not to random coincidences: who took 20 and who took 19 and a half percent. So in this respect, the proportional system is better. As far as partying is concerned, it is not necessarily in a proportional system. And Sergei Petrovich mentioned the draft electoral code, which included lists of independent, non-party candidates participating in the local elections.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u33	Kulczynski Mikola Georgievich
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u34	Mr. Yuri, the whole world is trying today, the whole democratic world today is trying to take into account the smallest problems of the smallest social groups in the local self-government. We essentially destroy the idea of local self-government, we don't second it to the community, and I solidarity with Roman Tkach or major elections, or the right to raise political parties and social organizations, including, in local self-government, all the problems that exist in one or another social groups. Moreover, the practice of life today shows that there are political centers in places. They're not doing their job of structure, of political structure, of society, they're doing some useful, useful goals. And that's a problem you can't help but see.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u35	Your second part of the question is absolutely correct and I also agree to partisanize the local elections and especially to impose an imperative mandate for local self-government when the central party body determines who the deputy in the area who is not a deputy is absolutely wrong and contradicts European developments. However, I would like to point out that your first part of the question is absolutely contradictory, because around the world, a proportional system is being put in place just to ensure minority representation, because the majority system of minorities cannot be represented. So if you want the least social group to have a chance of being represented in local government, you have to maintain a proportional system.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u36	The record is being announced for discussion. Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich, please. In accordance with the Rules, the first representatives were authorized by factions and then by the national deputies of Ukraine. Everyone's going to perform.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u37	Dear colleagues, I suggest you ask yourself a question. What do we want to achieve by making these changes, and if others change the electoral legislation? The first is the truth of the peoples of the world as the foundation of democracy. And the second is the political party structure of society. Is this task being accomplished by a single bill? Absolutely not. We seem to be under the influence of these shaman appeals. The President has already begun to say: “The open party lists, open party lists, which will become good.” What are open party lists? When a political power goes to the polls, its lists are printed. They're in the papers! It contains the names of all the people who claim either to the Supreme or to the District or to the City Council. An example of Zaporozhye. 88 deputies. Every one of them. We have preserved the majority, regardless of proportionality. Each has its own constituency. Well, Mini's constituency is in the middle of town. What should a City Council MP do? Indoor roads. Lifts. Dahi. That's the standard of living, the livelihood of citizens. What should a politician do? Politics. The law, written outside the competition, goes to the leader of the political power. So who's this leader who knows him at the local level? Is this still a party to do because this leader was needed and used by these people? I fully support my colleagues' opinion: either we return the majority, but on the basis of a party move. Whether or not a party is moving its people around all these districts, let them be chosen there. Dear colleagues, this is a great threat to you and me. Ukraine is divided into 225 constituencies. And so that we don't get 225 in this room for a while. Then let it be two for people to choose, but it can't go on like this. The people are dispossessed, the people are on their own, and now we've got some big politicians at the local level who say our faction has decided not to repair this sewage collector in this neighborhood. What's the point? There's a question of life support, the city's vitality, or some inhabited area, as well as areas. The MP must be very close to the people. You who have a district, who haven't broken up, I see a lot of my colleagues here as majors like me, who are now on party lists. You and I work in those districts that people come to us with. There are very few problems such as, you know, strategic, mostly life - threatening problems: helping school, helping kindergartens, and not making money, you can just take care of yourself, you can get attention, you can walk around these high offices. I propose that this bill be rejected, he has no right to be voted back to the majority office with a rise from the party force and move forward normally.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u38	Matvienko Anatoly Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u39	Ukrainian Republican Party "The Council", "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" Block. Dear colleagues, obviously we need to understand that the wise person is the person or body who makes the conclusions of the mistakes he has made and has the courage to say about them. Not the wise, but the more ambitious, the more likely it is to deepen its errors and bring the situation simply to the point of indiscretion. It seems to me that we have to say today that by saving some political forces or by building not political parties but political holding companies, we have gone on an unprecedented and completely unwarranted path by transferring local elections, including to a proportional system. And that's what all the voters are talking about today, that's what all the heads of local authorities are talking about, and we're stupid about only promoting or caring for our party presence. What's more, there's an imperative mandate, we want to set up some kind of Führer's vertical. And in this way, we don't really think about protecting the interests of the territorial community. I look at this law and I don't think there's any wisdom here. There's ambition that doesn't improve, and it makes the local elections even worse. If we're narrowing down democracy, I want to ask, is that the right law? If we continue to violate the Constitution, I want to ask, do we have the right to such a law? Well, about narrowing down democracy. The formation of election committees is absurd. This is something we can never allow. Moreover, today there are attempts by the Supreme Council to turn it into some kind of vertical and periphery. All the councils. But that will never happen in this state of democracy. That's the first one. Why is the first three untouchable? What kind of elite people are these? What are they chosen by? And if we trust the territorial community, why can't we tie them up, all the more so as you know who party leaders are today. Raising a barrier is a narrowing down of democracy. It's not the protection of minorities. This is actually a deterioration in the protection of minorities. If we follow logic, let's figure out how many MPs there are. And then by dialing up the number of votes for one MP, and whether the other party will have a presence in one organ or another. The real ability of the electorate to take advantage of the Talmud or, as it is called, the brochure is not real. This is the first time. The other one. The legal accuracy of the vote. According to the Constitution, the district and district council are bodies of common interest. This is a violation of article 140 of the Constitution. The proportional choices at the district level are unacceptable. And that's why I'm proposing not to uphold this law. We have to work out a new law on the return to major elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u40	Sergey Vladislavovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u41	National MP Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u42	Transfers the right to speak to the national MP, Tomenko. Please, Mikola Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u43	Dear colleagues, I understand that after the flu, we were in a slightly better mood for helping the Ukrainian people. But I was very interested in our discussion. This has given us the impression that we do not have a party proportional system. So I'm hearing the nature of the discussion as if we had a city, district, district party that didn't form behind closed lists. These are the novices coming through here. And it's the MPs who go to places, they don't hear what they're saying about the MPs of the city, the district councils, the district councils, and the village councils. So we have two alternatives: an alternative -- or we're returning the majority system, or an alternative -- or we're making open lists. Now I ask you: “Friends, have you long lived in the majority system in Kiev, elsewhere? Did you go to the session when there was a majority system? When the city head came and 2/3 members of the city council, his subordinates, raised their hands and dispersed?" What was wrong with the system of major elections? What about the mayor of Kiev, not all his subordinates and his deputies sat in the session room and shared everything that could be shared with him? Because the director of an enterprise in his territory could have become an MP, and all the rest of them were public activists, people, experts and experts, they couldn't fix the elevators, they couldn't plant them, they couldn't give people money. Weren't we talking about fantastic corruption in the majority system in this session room 10 years ago? So the very idea proposed by the authors, I think, is a good idea. Another thing, of course, is how much percent, how much, how much, how much, how much, how much, how much, how much, how much, how much, how much, how much? As a person who, believe me, drives across Ukraine and in rural areas, I see clearly that people want this to be a political responsibility, and it's to be a person, that is, a person they trust, an authority. And in this coordinate system, open lists are good, because then the political party is doomed, on the one hand, to find the best people. And even if she didn't find the best people, the voter will. The elector is clearly oriented towards a particular political party, he comes in, he knows he's going to vote for the Party of Regions, so he's in the Party of Regions looking for the person who's the most authoritative in his city, district or district. Whether he's in our Ukraine or he's looking for him. So I think we're being tricky here when they say, "Give me the majority system." Then make the law! Support and lobby this law. The law has been registered for two years, the committee has made a decision for two years, and here the classics say, "Come on, major." Enter, we will debate the majority and proportion of open lists. Another thesis. It's about the MP Corps. And why, let's reduce the number of MPs. And we have in cities all the cities, the areas are as large as possible, let's reduce the number of MPs. What do 120 deputies need in Kiev? Are 120 deputies needed in the district centers? [[How much?]] What are they doing in this Kiev 120 deputies? There are bills and Valery Pisarenko, there are initiatives by other MPs, we're going to put them on the lower limit, and we're going to have less MPs. So I think that if we want to talk today about how we don't like closed lists, confirm the case, vote in the first reading, involve experts, experts, public organizations and prepare the law as it should be. We have to start with something, because we've been talking here for three years and we're not doing anything. The committee has proposed a law, let's give him a move, let's support him in the first reading, let's keep working.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u44	Kirilenko Viacheslav Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u45	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “For Ukraine!” Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! I personally do not believe much in the myth of open lists. In the current Ukrainian situation, there can be no open lists that will give the country an order and true democracy. What's more, at best, it's just going to be a little undermotion of a system of proportional choices, a system with closed lists. This bill is one example of such lacquering. Chiefs, three men, stay on any list. A colleague who passed the bill proposes such an open list system, when three leaders are guaranteed to pass and these three leaders of any political party are deeply indifferent to who will be there on the preference system on the rest of the list. It's still going to be people who are deeply dependent and deeply subordinate to what they've been doing with sewers, roofs, roads, utility medicine and schooling, and they're not going to do that, because they're going to do what they're going to do to their leaders, as they are now doing all over the country. Look, the honourable colleagues and the honourable voters, now any hoax and in almost every paradise, is a mini-parliament, where there are political leaders who follow the direction of the management centre. Here in the opposition room, it's passed on to the shell. There's a coalition, an anti-coalition, a constitution -- transferred to the district council, and none of the local MPs are dealing with local self-government anymore -- roads, roofs, sewers, medicine, I repeat. And everyone thinks they've taken the direction of the central Kiev leader correctly or wrong. Here's all the reform proposed by this bill. You'll excuse me for being tough, but I think I'm saying what most voters think about, and they're thinking that the MP, especially the local and the central ones, needs to get these voters back, and that he's doing more than just party-political issues, but that's why he's sent to any local council of the community -- self-government issues that are completely grounded, that are everyday, that need not talk, but solutions. So we see a way out of this situation in the majority system and with party elevations. Let the parties have the right to raise, let's make it clear what a worldwide doctrine every candidate has, because it represents a political party platform. But let him go to the people and prove that he is worthy of anything, not under the list, under his leaders and under the Kiev renown of those political leaders who are now proposing to preserve this fast-track system. So let's talk comprehensively about electoral reform. Not just one bill that suddenly came into play, but 12 bills that are now in order and reforming the elections. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u46	National MP Kulczynski passes on the right to speak to Andrew Volodymyrovich Paruba.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u47	Paribay Andrey, “For Ukraine! ” You know, I'm a big and hot fan of the open list system, and I think it's very important that it be introduced, but that it be introduced at the level of the Supreme Council. Because here, at the level of the highest legislative body, the development concepts of the state are forming the key points in the development of Ukrainian statehood. Instead, at the level of local authorities, economic issues are usually resolved. I can speak with responsibility. I was elected twice by the majority system to the district council and was once elected by the majority system to the city council. And he was also a member of the district council on a proportional system. And I can speak responsibly today: it's very clear how quickly the MP's contact with a particular district is lost. When a deputy reported to the electorate while working in the majority system, he contacted them, was constantly in dialogue with them, as soon as we put in place a proportional system, it led to a gradual but very rapid loss of contact with his district. We complained about the majority system. There were, indeed, many shortcomings. But when we saw what the proportional system was doing, when we saw the Lozinski phenomenon and the similar, it was probably not just us, but the whole Ukraine was horrified. So today, in support of the general concept of open lists, believing that it is essential to implement it at the level of the Supreme Council, I think that the local authorities that carry out the economic functions that should be in constant dialogue with the people, with the electorate, need to return the majority system of party elections, as proposed in their draft Constitution by President Viktor Andryovich Yushchenko. I think that's the only thing that's going to be the most optimal and fair solution to the problem today. I would also like to go back to the question I was already asking. spoke in the discussion: regarding the “against all” graph. Every Ukrainian citizen has the right to have his position on what is happening in the Ukrainian state. Every citizen has the right to express his attitude toward the authority that is in our nation. And to this day a citizen had this opportunity: by going and voting against everyone, he was also doing his job and demonstrating his civic position, demonstrating that he does not support active authority or support active candidates. We're taking this right away from him today, and we're encouraging him not to go to the polls, and that's the way his voice can be manipulated. When someone recommends that he throw a blank ballot in the urn, let me tell you, this blank ballot will then be filled out and not at all by the voter. That is why I believe that this rule must be abandoned and cannot be repealed by the local authorities or by the election of the President of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u48	Katerinczuk Mikola Dmitrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u49	Dear voters, distinguished national MPs, the European Party of Ukraine, Mikola Catherinechuk I'd like to start by saying that this is a very useful discussion that is happening today in the session room, not on another talk show. Because, in fact, if you look at this talk show, all the leaders of the political parties, as well as the presidential candidates, all talk about one thing -- we turn our faces to people, to their problems. And the question of choosing local self-government is a very important question from the point of view of exercising power over its functions. Because what do we see today? What do local authorities do today? With what? The main function, not the regulation of municipal tariffs or transport, is not the provision of kindergartens, or preschools, or schools, or other institutions. No, they're redistributing municipal property into private property. And look who's on those lists, exclusively business, no teacher, no representative of intelligence, no peasant, exclusively the business that's stolen, or anyone else who's trying to steal. There's nothing going on there anymore. So this system can no longer work in a civilized, democratic Ukraine. So the position of the European Party of Ukraine: back to the majority system. This bill is very good, and we really have to thank BUTU for bringing this discussion into the hall, but here are two concepts. And according to Mikola Tomenko, who travels around the country, we travel around the country, and we hear everyone talking about what they want to know about their deputy. And I think there's been a lot of criticism today, so this criticism has to be put back in a constructive way. Please, everyone who has spoken today for the majority system, the proposal from the European Party: let's sign one bill, everyone who has spoken, put it in and vote. And today this discussion is very, very useful to me, but I'm going to propose from the European Party of Ukraine not to support this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u50	Bodnar Olga Borisovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u51	Olga Bodnar, Timoshenko Street. You know, they all say one thing: we want the openness of the MP Corps. Here you've been offered a real choice with a proportional election system, which, in principle, is the most perfect in the world, because the majority system, the more, in Ukraine, it leads everyone to know what wallet they need to bring to solve problems. For example, a colleague of Popescu already knows how much a major election system costs. Yeah? You're giving me a hint. Thank you. But I want to tell you this. What's proposed in this bill is actually quite open to perception. At the moment, the system for the formation of all levels of the House of Deputies of the House of Yulia Timoshenko is designed in this way: the members of the District Council, the deputies of the City Council, the District Council, and the Supreme Council are anchored behind the districts, and all Ukrainian citizens are well aware of which representative from the House of Yulia Timoshenko is attached to what else. In this system, this is fully reflected in the proposals provided for in the bill. I would like to emphasize to you, Your Honor, public reception, if you like, open and work. Yulia Timoshenko's block hasn't closed them since 2006. As they worked, they worked. If the issue of the district, city, or state level has to be resolved, there is no problem. If you want experience, contact us. This is also stated in the bill. What a cheerleader is, in 2004, you're all here, half the hall is screaming that the cheerleader is bad. So now you're saying it's good. Why? Because you can't join a team that can actually take responsibility for yourself and trade for yourself. That's not right. What is being deleted is an excellent standard of “against all”. Because election is not a win. You have to get used to coming to the election and making your choice, whether you're in favor or you're in favor, you're choosing a candidate. If you've come to play, if you've come to say "fe," you can say it in the kitchen. Because we need to save our government paper and the time to calculate the voices of those who wish to express their will. I have a warning about this bill, so I don't see the possibility of supporting it in general. For example, I am concerned about the way areas are formed that are proposed in the bill. I think the present one is also good enough and good enough. Thus, no council will be able to influence the formation of areas.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u52	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u53	Moreover, I do not understand why this is, let us say, an approach to proportionality or to the barriers of passage. I think that's completely wrong, because from a constitutional point of view, all voters and all potential candidates have to be equal in their rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u54	Vladimir Bondarenko, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. Please, your performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u55	Vladimir Bondarenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, Party “Reforms and Orders”. Like many of the people in this room, I have repeatedly chosen a major district. In particular, I've been in Kiev three times in a row, in Borsztagówka, where a system of electoral work has been established over the years. I didn't miss any reception. There is a large infrastructure created by children's clubs, social institutions. And I think that I should be adamant about the majority system, and I've had problems in elections, and I would never have. But I think that the situation that comes after the majority system takes over the electoral territory will be that the MPs will be addressed with all the problems in the territory and then the executive authorities will wait quietly, and what that MP will do, will patch up the roof or take out the garbage, or build the road. And the function, excuse me, of representative bodies is a little different, they have to balance the system of budgetary relations in their territory, calculate socio-economic development plans rather than directly engage in executive activities. So it would be very important for me, for example, to introduce into this law provisions that would prohibit members of the local councils from being co-workers of state administrations and executive bodies at the same time. With executives there is some clarity, and in the system of public administrations there are representatives of district and city councils who, if you will excuse me, instead of controlling the executive body, work in it and resolve their questions. After the local council members were allowed to represent the executive authority at the same time, after that, if you'll excuse me, the entire system of the local delegation has turned into nothing. Today it's just sharing land, sharing wealth and resources, and I think it's very important. And one more thing is, measures have to be chosen by a two-track system. What we have today in Kiev, when a famous man in Kiev buys a group of elderly people, buys food and everything else, and all the other kyans are healthy, sober in the election are divided into several support groups. Each of them gets almost as much as the mayor, but a little less, so it's already been three times. So you have to enter a two-track election, and then the most popular candidate, with the most support, will be chosen. And I would also like to draw attention to what is being discussed, how to vote: against everyone, for everyone. I have a recommendation for everyone, vote for Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, which means you'll be against everyone else. That's how everyone thinks and chooses the best candidate. So I think it can be against everyone, but we have to choose someone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u56	Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. We will now vote. Invite the deputies to the session hall, called John Popescu. Please, a line. And please prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u57	Thank you, Popescu faction of the region. I'd like to tell that colleague who spoke from the rostrum that I really know what victory costs in a major district. And it costs a day's work with its constituents -- that's the answer. As far as the bill is concerned, there are only a few minutes left. This bill cannot be adopted in any way, since it does not provide for the right of national minorities to place their candidates in the local authorities through their own organizations, as provided for in article 14 of the National Minorities Act and conflicts with Recommendation 1201 of the Council of Europe. So I propose not to vote, and in no way do I support these nationalistic ideas that are expressed by one of the political powers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u58	Dear colleagues! The bill is closed. The committee's proposal to adopt the draft law as a basis. I am voting on this proposal, namely the adoption as a basis of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the election of members of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local councils and city heads on the characteristics of the formation of territorial election committees, the introduction of open lists of candidates for the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and local councils]] Registration number 1458. Please vote. [[17:03:44]] For-173 The decision is not taken. Factions: The region's party is zero, the Yulia Block Timoshenko is 144, our Ukraine-National Self-Defense is 12, the communists are zero, the Lithuanian Block is 15, the non-fractional is two. In order to clean up the experiment, I'm voting on re-reading the bill. [[17:04:18]] For-188. The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. By factions, please, the Party of the Regions is 0, the Block of July Timoshenko - 149, our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense - 21, the Communists - 0, the Block of Lithuania - 16, the Non-Faction - 2. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Since we still have a lot of work to do with the bills, I'm going to put to the vote to consider the bills that follow the reduced procedure. Please vote. [[17:05:01]] For-26 Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to consider the reduced procedure further bills. You all insist that we look at the bills, and we can't look at any of them, because we're banging on the spot all the time. A draft Act on the return of the entire assets of the closed stockholding company "Corostien Farfor" to state ownership is under consideration. [[Registration number 4609]] Rapporteur – Ukrainian national deputy Kravchenko Mikola Vasilovich, co-rapporteur – Head of Economic Policy Committee Tkachenko Alexander Mikolajovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u59	Cowchenko, the Communist faction. A few words to the history of this draft Ukrainian Act on the return of the entire assets complex of the closed stockholder association “Corostien Farfor” to state ownership. A group of the Corostene Farfor factory of the closed-circuit association approached the People's Deputy Simonenko, leader of the Communist faction in the Supreme Council, to initiate the drafting of a law that would allow the entire property complex of the plant to be returned to the property of the Power. What's the purpose of the team's conversion? Since 2007-2009, the collective has virtually bankrupted the factory, a factory that has been the flagman of the industry to date almost on loan to Nadra Bank. So, in response to the request of the community of the Corestinian porcelain factory, the People's Deputy Simonenko and I have drafted a bill that we present to you is the basis for the necessity and the adoption of the law. One of Ukraine’s leading manufacturing companies, the Corestinian porcelain plant, is on the verge of bankruptcy. In Soviet times, there were 18 similar factories in Ukraine, but Korostensky was viewed as a flagman in the field. The product range consisted of nearly 400 choices, and more than half of the products were exported to dozens of countries in all regions of the SND, the Baltic region, Moldova, Germany, Israel, and the United States. Today, the fame of this company has become scandalous, the property of the factory is stolen, people have not been paid for months, and if they do, small sums. The factory’s management leads to bankruptcy. During the period 2007-2009, wages amounted to one and a half million grevens and some 5 million grevens were owed to the Pension Fund. The draft law therefore proposes that the enterprise be returned to state ownership on the basis of article 41 of the Constitution of Ukraine on grounds of social necessity. The adoption of Ukrainian law will allow for the restoration of social justice, the protection of the interests of the state and the labour community of the factory, the creation of preconditions for the successful development of the industry, the porcelain industry in Ukraine. Literally a few words about today’s economic situation. The constitutional fund of 10 million, the cost of the core funds, well, final, returns, the remainder, of 18 million 236,000. The share of the core funds is 56 per cent. At present, the property of the enterprise is in a loan bond. Number of workers. In 2008, 442 people. In 2009, 309 people. Average wage of 1700 grevens. Indemnification of VAT in front of the company is 800,000 dollars. Productions of 448 thousand dollars, i.e. the fall in production took place by 11.4 percent. I've got everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u60	Dear colleagues, if you have a question, please write it down. Please put the name of the national MPs on the board. National MP Prokopchuk, please. The faction of the Yulia Tymoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u61	Yuri Prokopchuk. What I'm saying is that this bill didn't just come about. This, by the way, does not apply only to the Handicrafts porcelain plant. I think it's supposed to be the first tray, and then the sugar industry, which is now just being cut out for destruction. Although sugar is strategic. That's why I'm going to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u62	You know, I answer your question, I'm honest, I'm grateful for your words for one reason. What we said this morning, I said, unfortunately, was that, unfortunately, we came to the conclusion that we had finally come to realize that the slogan, which is the formula that was proposed in 1991, was that the market would fix everything. Unfortunately, it led us to a dead end and not just to this factory. Indeed, by introducing this bill of Simonnka for consideration, we have put forward the main task of once launching a procedure of this nationalization, which, unfortunately, is not being used in Ukraine to date. Other countries, including the developed capitalist countries of Western Europe, are actively benefiting from it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u63	Anatoly Matvienko, please ask me a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u64	Ukrainian Republican Party "The Council", "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" Block. Mikola Vasilovich, the Constitution guarantees the protection of property rights, including private property. I'm not ruling out that, really, we have to start some kind of mechanism in reprivatization. But please tell me, how does the Constitution regulate the protection of property rights with your proposal to nationalize this enterprise? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u65	This is indeed the case, but it is covered by article 41, section 5, of the Constitution, which provides for the compulsory alienation of private property as an exception to social necessity. In this case, therefore, it is precisely the reasons for social necessity to decide on the nationalization of this issue. But I'd like to talk about the next one. Yes, to date, it may not be only for this plant, but it makes sense to draw up a separate law that would solve the problems, as it has done, let's say, that Russia has passed a federal law and other countries a federal law on how power is reversed. But we do have a law that presupposes that the State Property Fund should have initiated a case long ago.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u66	Paul Zebravsky, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u67	Dear reporter, of course, with the porcelain. China’s porcelain industry is a horror. And a flagman like the Corestinian factory certainly needs to be put in order and we can't lose this field. However, everything must be in accordance with the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. I agree with you that there should be a whole state program so that Ukraine does not lose the whole sector because we lose. It's also about, let's say, and we need to talk about the Herson Combin factory, and we need to talk about a lot of other factories. But actually, you just wrote in the report note that it doesn't need to be compensated from the budget, so we have, you got the right reference, in case of social necessity. Such a social need is. But it may be necessary to accept it in the first reading. But work to ensure that we do not go against the Constitution. And if we were to work on it, that law would certainly be acceptable.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u68	Thank you for asking. To be honest, I can see that on second reading, I could write it down here. This is, let's say, a mechanism for doing so. For example, the Cabinet of Ministers should make an estimate of the residual value and, on this basis, it is absolutely correct to make a economic decision on this basis, first and foremost. That is, if we adopt this rule in the first reading, we will have to comply with it in the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u69	Alexander Stoyan, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u70	Mikola Vasilovich, I had to be at this factory once, working in the unions. There was a strong factory, there was a strong team. And, of course, we need a team to work today. But I have two short questions. First question. Who led the factory to this condition? Who's the director today? Is it a stock company or a private company? What is the name of the director of politics? And the next moment. You're sure if you go back to the state that the state will take this factory under its wing and run this factory, and the labour force will work? Why don't you think about it and give it to the labor team? Because we see what the government is doing today. We see his great results, his work. And I'm afraid it's going to be even worse for this group. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u71	Dear colleagues! Well, as an example of this law, I would like to ask that we withdraw from each other for one reason. Tomorrow any other party will come to power, let's say. And she's supposed to be a team, yeah. No, I'm just gonna say, I'm gonna answer the question, yes. It's about something. The point is that we must return him to public property. And all this, no, well, I'll tell you what. Well, let me tell you. Today's the day. The Darnick Court of Kiev is recognized as the leader, the real head of government, as the former head of government, Valentin Dragan. That name doesn't tell me who he is, what political power. But he has, he has 51.9 shares for that period. Today, the labour force re-elected him, and Sergey Saranova was elected. But there's a tension between.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u72	Please, Vladimir Bondarenko, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u73	Thank you. The Timoshenko Block, Reform and Order Party. I want to say that I'm not interested in the political ownership of one person or another, or in the political orientation of this group, and I know that in Ukraine, porcelain-fajancing production is simply dying in front of the eyes, and that there are units of existing former large enterprises and. And everywhere. And if there's any possibility that production can be restored in any way that a team can work there, this ancient industry in Ukraine needs to be supported. I think in the first reading you can support that, and then in the second reading, you can work out, by looking at the personal level, on fractional issues. Therefore, I believe that the first reading can support this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u74	National MP, Bondar, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u75	Thank you. Olga Bondar, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. What I'm saying is that the idea of supporting the Corestinian porcelain is a very good idea. And there probably won't be anyone in this room who wouldn't want or dream of restoring that, let's say, history, historical justice about Ukrainian porcelain. But this bill I don't see any support, because the article 41 you refer to, and when you come out of social needs, yes, deletes, nationalization, it provides that you should write a mechanism in this law, how this nationalization is implemented. Instead, you offer to return to government property and commission Kabmin to take steps to return in an orderly manner. In this case, we'll just have a good idea. This is not a mechanism that is unfortunately prescribed by law. So in this case, I see a good idea, but unfortunately, I can't.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u76	You're the one who reads the conclusion. So I understand, I understand very well that today, if you're looking at purely legal terms, that's the question. But fellow MPs have proposed a mechanism to address this problem through the second reading procedure -- here it is. We can write the mechanism on second reading, the mechanism. And the second. To date, we have a mechanism that, unfortunately, has not worked at the State level and that has led the deputies to take the initiative on this issue. In the present case, the property fund did not work or have not been brought before the court or had not been dealt with; it had to break unilaterally the contract which had been concluded with an effective owner, as we called it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u77	Thank you. Mikola Vasilovich, please sit down. Alexy Plonikov of the Committee on Economic Policy Please, the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u78	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! The Committee on Economic Policy held a meeting on 24 June this year considered a draft law submitted by the Ukrainian People's Deputies Simonenko and Kravchenko on the return of the entire assets complex of the closed corporation "Korostensk Farfor" to state property, respectively registration number 4609. The project proposes to restore to the state ownership the entire assets complex of the closed corporation "Corostene Farfort" by entrusting the Cabinet of Ministers with appropriate measures, including the provision of the State Budget 2010 bill, which is necessary for this purpose. The authors of this bill stress that "Corostien Farfor" was one of the most powerful businesses in Ukraine, and it is on the verge of bankruptcy. Also in the corresponding explanatory note are painted in such bright colors as was previously the case in Soviet times, where production was directed, which was a unique enterprise compared to other equally unique companies in Soviet times. Many other things are also suggested by the authors. I mean, in terms of the authors of this bill, it's absolutely necessary. State support for this enterprise is precisely through its nationalization. At the committee meeting, there was both a proposal to support the bill and a proposal to reject it. However, none of the proposals — neither support nor rejection — had the required number of votes, so the committee decided to invite the Supreme Council of Ukraine to consider the bill and to decide on it by voting. This was the opinion of the Economic Policy Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u79	Thank you. Thank you. Have a seat, please. Do we need to discuss this bill or should we vote? Please sign up for the discussion. Please put the name of the national MPs on the board. Andrew Schlell. Alla Alexandrovska will then perform.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u80	Honorable National Deputies, Honorable Radio and Television Watchers! You know, well, basically, we're doing a good job right now. Of course, it is good to note that the Corestinian porcelain factory has been the focus of the entire Supreme Council and all of our constituents who observe the periphery of our work today. It's really a unique enterprise. And in fact, the problems in Ukraine with porcelain are serious. But, frankly, it's not going to save her, nor is it going to save her. Believe it or believe it or come back, change the form of property, assign or take an effective manager out of the sky somewhere, but it's extremely ungrateful. So in these circumstances, we need to think about how we can make it work effectively for this and for all other manufacturers in Ukraine. We need a government program, and it's developed at a stage where we can implement it even now, but unfortunately, in these walls of the Supreme Council, there's not even a word about the adoption of the budget for the next year. That's how to help any production, any of those in Ukraine who want to invest not just money, but their own labor and make a living for themselves and their family, have no opportunity to do that, because the state has no ability to direct the funds by destination. And there is no chance that the budget will pass. And here, you know, I'm going to try, I'm going to try, I'm going to try, I'm going to try to solve the whole blanket issue, I'm going to fail with the overall blanket. It won't work, even if we pass it on, we're going to give it to the labor force unanimously, we're going to ban it from being dismembered, and we're going to save it as the only manufacturing complex. It won't save, first of all, the employees of the company, it only has the opportunity to create preconditions for a decent manager to get there. Where do you want it? Also unknown. So you need a program, a whole program, and it's proposed by the government, and you can just implement it just in case, I repeat, the adoption of the budget. So, of course, taking care of an average worker, taking care of an average entrepreneur, it's very common here, it's pleasant before the elections, and it doesn't sound bad from the High Council, but it doesn't solve the question, it doesn't solve the question. People need to make money on the enterprise and it doesn't matter whether it's private, state or any other property. Therefore, the most important thing in this situation is to do what the government is proposing, to support the budget in the session room. You support the budget and everything will be funded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u81	Alla Alexandrovska, Communist faction. Adam Martinyuk, please. Yes, he's referring the right to Alla Alexandrovska's speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u82	Dear colleagues, if we are to focus with you and if we dare to make a responsible decision with you, we can do an extremely good job with you. That's what this is all about. It's not just the offer of a faction of Communists or any of the national MPs. The point is that the factory’s labour team itself asked to take the initiative to return the factory to state ownership. I don't understand my colleague, Andrew School, that it's not going to work. Then you sign up for the non-professionalism of the government, if it can't get out of the gap even a factory like a porcelain factory that's popular, which can produce well-known products, and it's given 400 kinds of products that can bring effective benefits to the state. Isn't it in the state that the Ministry of Industry doesn't have enough sense if we take it back to government property, put a basic order there, and secure production at this factory? I don't think so. This is one moment. Secondly, I would very much like us to show the owners of other businesses that are burying by buying businesses that if you do not fulfill your obligations, you, your property, can expect what the state can return. Yes, the state won't take it, the state will pay you back. I support Paul Ivanovich, who speaks of where the funds are. In fact, there is a draft law on the State Budget Act 2010 to provide for the funds to return the plant. Dear colleagues, let's really try to accept in the first reading to write all the procedures, and in doing so we will show, once again, once again, that the State is not giving up its good, that the State, when it sees that the owner who bought it, cannot meet the needs of both the state and the needs of the labour community, that the state is taking responsibility for itself. And once again, I would like to point out that this will help us to draw up some of the other owners who will be more careful about fulfilling their privatisation obligations. So I would ask, let's support and vote in the first reading of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u83	Vladimir Landik, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u84	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! You know, the bill, if you think about it logically, it's good. We're saving a working group or something. Who's going to think about saving the country? For if a factory that had authority and its products had been used by a great demand in the country, it had suddenly died. We understand why he's broke. Well, because the product is not taken, it's not taken at the prices at which it can be implemented. But why such a situation? Because it comes from the same China with some clay product in which the whole Mendeleyev table is all the way to the arsenic. That's exactly what I'm telling you, all the way up to the arsenic in this clay, and they're hauling here by the kopecks. And our home country and our home Government do not want to see what we have under our noses, under the same Zitomir or where, the enterprises that need the wrong programme, as mentioned by the previous Shkell Andrey, about the exit programme of this enterprise, but the support programme of the national manufacturer. After all, the Cabinet of Ministers, led by Timoshenko, has been in power for two years, we have not seen this programme on paper or in action. We see in action, but a terrible situation in industry and proof of it. Look, even if it's a ransom mechanism, how? We need to acquire the shares that are set up in Nadra Bank, then pay off the debts. What's that for? At the expense of the State? And where does the State have the money, if it cannot even provide the gauze of its citizens. That's why I think it's a complete utopia and it's not gonna work out. We need support, we need heart, soul, not word for manufacturer, and then we'll be fine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u85	Dear colleagues, Paul Zebrovsky. Roman Zvaric and Arjewitin are giving him the right to speak. So, 6 minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u86	Dear colleagues! In fact, it's not that simple a situation with regard to the return to the state property of the Corosten factory, which certainly has centuries of history and this is a wonderful enterprise. This business did not begin this year, not even in 2004. Indeed, in 2004 he was already in a pre - bankruptcy situation. In fact, this factory could not handle the debt obligations that it was. I would like to point out that this is the situation throughout Ukraine's porcelain industry. In fact, today there is no City Fair in Novgorod Volin district, there is no Polyan factory in the Hmelnicki district, there is no Kamenobrid plant today, and so on. In fact, there are three factories left today from the porcelain industry across Ukraine: The Doubish factory, the Sumskie factory, and the Dryzkow factory, which actually produces porcelain products. An absolutely right colleague who spoke to me about the reason for such things? And the reason is, most of all, it's smuggling a Chinese vessel. Little, say, such an efficient, low-quality, and even informally imported from China. And the huge amount of smuggling that's being shipped to the Ukrainian market, it's subdued the entire porcelain industry. And today we actually need a comprehensive solution to this problem. As far as the Corostene factory is concerned, there are huge problems. As far as I know, a museum is being sold out today. In fact, today, there are no furnaces in the factory, but there is a working group that has both experience and willingness to work. To this day, it was simply to buy the factory, and it was to provide only a ransom for the plant very little and very little. In fact, for today, we need to put together a business plan for the restoration of this plant, not just the amount of ransom money, but actually for the launch, because we need either Portuguese or Czech stoves to buy the first and second fire furnaces. You actually have to buy steel equipment, that's a lot of money, and I wouldn't want us to go that far on one side. I think as far as the Corestinian factory is concerned, there's something you can do, in the first reading, as a protocol of intent to accept. Then we need to sit down with the government, along with the experts, to determine the amount of financial resources that we need to spend on rebuilding the plant. Then you can say that we're going to be an effective owner, not just buy out everything, but we'll just buy out a room, and we'll buy out equipment that doesn't exist. But what I want to say is that we need to look more at it and we need customs services for today, it's in the flesh before there has to be a special commission to figure out how much porcelain smuggling is going through in Ukraine, what we need to do to make sure that the smuggling doesn't go, how to provide the Ukrainian consumer, the Ukrainian producer. We started today, as Adam Ivanovich said, as an example from one factory in one field, but this should certainly be the support of a native producer. Today, if we run for import, which we call today a slightly cheaper and more efficient day, and for some of the officials we can even get a little bit more bribe from an internal manufacturer and run after it, we'll lose our manufacturer, and then we'll go three ways to buy imported products. Today, my conversations with the experts in the porcelain industry, both Ukraine and Russia, talk enough about what China will strangle us, but certainly it will if there is no serious government programme in the field, in the national producer and in every enterprise, whether it's owned by the state or privately owned, it's Ukrainian production that gives jobs to the Ukrainian people who pay taxes in the Ukrainian budget, from which we can raise both wages and pensions. In fact, today we need to talk not just about some government pharmacies, government factories and so on, there should be public policy in different fields, and then we'll go out and we'll have Ukrainian production and Ukrainian production to provide the needs of the Ukrainian people. Dear colleagues, I would like to emphasise that I will certainly vote in favour of this bill as a protocol of intent, I am willing to join in the development of the second reading of serious labor, why so, because I was the head of the district government and I remember, I went out three times to this factory and I couldn't do anything because there were 80 percent of the shares in one person's hands and there was nothing to be done then. But for today, I think that if there's government support, a government program in a national producer, we're not just going to reprivatize ourselves, but we're going to do everything we can to make our enterprises work effectively regardless of the form of ownership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u87	The Kilincarov National MP has the right to speak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u88	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! I fully support the positions that have been expressed regarding the fact that this law can be adopted on first reading and, secondly, that the mechanisms that are necessary to comply with all the provisions of the Constitution and, in accordance with the Constitution, to implement the mechanism for the return of the enterprise to public property. I went to this rostrum to say that this is not the only factory in our country that is generally in this state, and I would like to give an example of an enterprise located in the Luhansk region in which absolutely unprecedented events are taking place. This is a “novoska” located in Krasno Luč, where the labour force was not paid for half a year, the owner, the labour force went on strike and stood up for its right. They were paid three months' wages and in fact the owner is suing for the illegality of these actions. To date, despite the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers to deal with salaries and to inform the President within three days, no one has done anything in the company so far. I actually went out to this rostrum to say. Here we have been asked several times today: call the owners of enterprises, who, what agency, who controls this enterprise. So the paradox here is that I want to speak to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs today from this rostrum to confirm or refute the fact that this enterprise belongs to the Honourable Consul of Bulgaria in Ukraine. And by controlling this enterprise, they do not pay wages in Ukraine today for a long period of time. If that is true, if representatives of the European Union are to behave this way in Ukraine, I think that such people should simply be expelled from the country and be able to turn their tails there if they are unable to pay people their wages today. And so far, three months have not paid people their wages. Absolutely suddenly, cynically, people are thrown out on the streets without pay and people are actually left alone with problems. So what Adam Ivanovich said, I fully support. Today, we must show this law to all owners that question number one, which they must carry out, is to pay wages on time. If he cannot do so, the enterprise must be returned to public property. And then there could be a mechanism, let's say, to sell or sell the business to another owner. But there is no mechanism other than to return it initially to public property. And I propose to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u89	Sergey Teryohin. It's a faction of the Yulia Tymoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u90	Dear colleagues, allow me to express this very, very strongly under this law. First of all, it's the right idea, it's a nice idea. The thing is, this factory is not a regular factory, because the production of this plant is part of Ukrainian culture. I can tell you that I have a lot of porcelain in my own home, which was made at this factory back in Soviet times, usually. But I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you and I have passed a law on the removal of private property for reasons of social necessity. This bill was dedicated to the President, he's waiting for his consideration in the Supreme Council, that's the veto. You can use this law to get the factory back into state property. Position of the second. If the plant was transferred to private property by violating the rules of privatization or by violating the investment conditions that were a prerequisite for privatization, then the rules of the Civil Code, civil rights on unlawful property acquisition, should not be feared or used. Then you don't have to pay the money. It's just that there's a kind of restoration going on, and the owners are changing. So the owner is being restored. And then let the person who now actually owns this factory prove that he has fulfilled all the preconditions for privatizing this plant. So that's a summary of that. That's a very good idea. Sadly, performance is not very good. Let's put it this way, a law written in the style of a Kazakh akin: what I see, I sing. So the request is to the authors. Yet look at the possibility or confirmation of our decision to remove private property and overcome the President's veto or to look at the judicial prospect of breaking up any documents that privatized this plant. Otherwise, I think it's the way the law is passed prematurely. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u91	Olga Gerasimük, “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense” faction. You don't? Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. Please, Mikola Kravchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u92	I have recourse to the deputies, colleagues, and to the electorates who are listening today. I agree that any case that begins for the first time is a difficult one. This is a nationalization issue. And I agree that there is indeed a need for a separate law to regulate action on this issue. But let's not talk about the problem, like they just did. This is a specific, unique factory. And just to say that this factory stopped because they imported imports from China, you'll call what industry does the import not exceed export today? You see, today we import meat, 80 per cent of meat is imported into Ukraine! And destroy our own producer. As soon as there has been a particular factory that needs to be saved today, and this mechanism is, it must be written at the second reading stage, and there is nothing to worry about if we sit and work together, I am ready to set up a separate working group and, as an example of this plant, show other inefficient owners who will be afraid that the Supreme Council will be able to adopt such bills even on the existing legislative basis. I'm talking to the voters today. Dear voters, today's debate on this bill has shown that property cannot be touched, and today property is in the hands of those people who are as promising to you as they are today, who, as far as they are concerned, are turning their soul and heart out and giving it to you. That's why there's a big election ahead. So think and make the right decisions after all. In the example of the Corestinian porcelain factory, we can focus the entire economy of Ukraine, so don't cry that we don't have drugs, don't cry that we have epidemics and so on, it's about you having to decide by vote today whether the state will exist or not. So look, voters, who you vote for.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u93	Dear colleagues, the draft law is under discussion. Registration number 4609 has been completed. The committee invited the Supreme Council to take the appropriate decision, so I'm voting on the proposal to adopt a bill based on the draft Law on the return of the entire asset complex of the private corporation "Corostensk Farfor" to state property. [[Registration number 4609]] Please vote. Please vote. [[17:49:04]] For-78 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. The Party of Regions – 27, "Club of Yulia Timoshenko" – 2, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 3, Communist faction – 27, "Club of Lithuania" – 18, "Club of Lithuania" – 1. I'm voting on the draft registration number 4609 for re-reading. Please vote. [[17:49:39]] For-188. The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, we've already discussed everything, well, please! What's the motive? Now I'm going to announce -- then it's going to be motivated. Dear colleagues, by factions? Please. Region Party – 133, “Timoshenko Yulia Block” – 3, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” – 4, Communist faction – 27, “Litvina Block” – 20, “Afterfractional” – 1. We continue the evening session for 15 minutes. And I'm announcing a draft Act amending some of the laws of Ukraine. [[in connection with the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of 23 June 2009 on the temporary allowance for valid import duty rates]] [[Registration number 4767]] I ask the honourable colleagues to support the proposal to review the bills on short notice. Please vote. Under the reduced procedure, please vote. [[17:50:51]] For-26 The decision is not taken. Please follow full procedure. The rapporteur is Sergey Anatoliyovich Teryohin, head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u94	Thank you. I know, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, in order to save your time, I would ask you to listen to the letter I sent yesterday to the Chief of the Supreme Council: “The draft agenda for the day session for November 3 is for consideration of this project. This project is a response to the relevant decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. At the same time, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Tax and Customs Policy informs you that during the last 10 days of last week, the Committee met with representatives of the European Commission and the Committee on Budgetary Disputes. As a result of the discussions, the parties concluded that further consultations were needed. In this regard, the committee requests that the consideration of this law be postponed from this session. This position is also supported by the Government of Ukraine.”
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u95	Ladies and gentlemen, I will put to the vote a motion for a motion for a bill. Please mobilize. I'm voting on a motion to postpone the consideration of draft law, registration number 4767. Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, if not, we'll look into it. [[17:52:32]] For-103 The decision is not taken. Let's move on to the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u96	My report will be very brief: I remind you that the Constitutional Court has taken a decision on our Law establishing a temporary allowance to regulate the payment balance at the time of the submission of the President of Ukraine and has declared unconstitutional the right of the government to reduce this allowance or to continue its operation from six to 12 months. In accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court, the Committee prepared appropriate changes to the law adopted by the Supreme Council in 400 votes. However, in view of the fact that the principles of the application of this allowance, as evidenced by the World Trade Organization, are contrary to the GAAT rules, the committee asked once again not to decide on the implementation of the Constitutional Court rules, the decision of the Constitutional Court, but to continue the discussions so that, on the one hand, the Supreme Council, rather than the government, could set or cancel such an allowance, on the other hand, would change the criteria under which such an allowance could be established or cancelled. [[What we have to do]] And I can tell you one last thing. Frankly, I was personally quite surprised by the Constitutional Court's decision on this issue at the request of the President of Ukraine. It seems to me as logical as the decision on the third term of former President Kuchma of Ukraine or on the assumption that personal pensions should not be reduced by judges or prosecutors. What are we talking about? They, the judges of the Constitutional Court, having interpreted the relevant article of the Constitution, decided that the Cabinet of Ministers could not decide by its decision or anyone by decision to set or change tax rates. In parallel to that decision, I remind you, we have to cancel, let's say, the rules on the establishment of resource payments. You know that resource payments are set up by the Cabinet of Ministers in accordance with laws that delegate such a right, or any local tax and assembly, because the Supreme Council delegates the right to set up local taxes and assemblies to local councils, which also becomes illegal by analogy with the decision of the Constitutional Court. What am I telling you? It seems to me that we need to do this, it's not my profession, it's my profession, I'm talking to lawyers, we need to see if the Constitutional Court can think about what a subject of so-called negative law can do, that is, an entity that can stop non-constitutional norms from performing the functions of positive law. So to produce new legislative norms instead of the Supreme Council, that's what the Constitutional Court is doing right now. So you know, I don't think I know how fate of this law will be. I think that he will not be voted today and will be removed from the agenda and there will be a problem between the decision of the Constitutional Court and the applicable rules of law adopted by the Supreme Council. But I have a request as a domestic task for our constitutional lawyers to decide, and what is the role of the Constitutional Court in this country, and can the Constitutional Court replace itself with the Supreme Council of Ukraine as it tries to do now? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u97	If you have any questions, please sign in. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. National Deputy Davidenko, please, the factions of "Our Ukraine"
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u98	Davidenko, Ukrainian National Party I have a question about "The Final Provisions" where the treatment goes until the decision of the Constitutional Court is given. Please explain, however, how will this 13 per cent supplement be paid or not paid in accordance with your proposal for these “Final Positions”? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u99	Thank you for asking, if you've looked closely at the draft law, it doesn't say how much the allowance should be. It is written when it can be installed: if a critical situation arises with a payment balance for Ukraine. There's a question that's been asked by the Supreme Council's Scientific and Experimental Authority. When we passed this law, we introduced this allowance for six months with the government's right to continue this allowance if the balance of payments remains critical for another six months. After that, according to the law we passed, he was to be placed in the Supreme Council, and the Supreme Council was to decide whether to continue or not. In view of the fact that the Constitutional Court has decided that the Cabinet of Ministers is not only unable to reduce, we have been forbidden to increase, to reduce, and to continue to act. Then the question arose, and who could continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u100	Complete the answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u101	In order for us to accept you, the Supreme Council may continue. It was in the transitional positions that it was written that the Supreme Council, first of all, was six plus six times twelve months. More to be clear, the rules of this law do not apply to the past, this is about the future, that is, 13 percent is in history. We can make any decision in the Supreme Council using the matrix of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u102	Thank you. People's Deputies, Arjevitin, please. Paul Zebravsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u103	Mr. Sergei, there's no need to be politicized. The Constitutional Court will not be dealt with within this law, yes. But, in fact, the question is, how does this law comply with the rules of our memorandum of entry into the WTO, and will we not violate the social norms, and will there not be problems in Ukraine about the introduction of this allowance, not for half a year, as they say, but now for the 12 months that are recorded in the rules of this law?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u104	Once again, I would like to reiterate that this law had one purpose: to implement the Constitutional Court's decision into national law. The 13 percent bonus ended in October, if I'm not mistaken, this year, I think, 4. It's gone, and it can't be unless the Supreme Council decides otherwise. In order for her to make a different decision, it is necessary to implement those rules of law that have been stopped by the Constitutional Court, by the court contained in this law. Regarding reconciliation with the WTO. I asked to postpone the consideration today because according to a letter signed by the committee, the head of the Committee on Budget Restrictions of the World Trade Organization. It may be possible to introduce such allowances when certain premeditations are made and for all goods, but not just for some.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u105	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u106	So in the logic of this law it would be better not to consider it today. I say again, if we don't look at it, we don't have any tools to prejudice the future of the balance of payments problem. The law has been revoked. The Constitutional Court stopped him.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u107	National Deputy Gordienko faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u108	Sergey Gordienko faction of the Company of Ukraine, Poltavščina. Dear reporter, we have just seen a vivid example of a double approach to the implementation of the Ukrainian people's will law, when we voted in favour of restoring to the state property a large enterprise, which is a flagman of production in Ukraine and when your faction did not support it. You were speaking and very beautifully told how to implement most of those words today to the population of Ukraine is almost impossible to understand. You say one thing, let's not stick our tail to the left and to the right, but let's be honest about the fact that today the biggest threat to national security and defence in Ukraine is disregarding the Constitution and laws of Ukraine, and you have so freely told us to execute or not to comply with the Constitutional Court's decision. Let's finish this comedy, this bill can't be supported and we can't go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u109	Thank you. It was a performance, I understand, but not a question. But the quintension of your performance is simple that you have to open the entire borders of Ukraine for any import, because if we now love this law, then this Chinese metaphor that you're talking about, your faction said in previous statements, will continue to go without any control. [[I apologize for the expression, if you understand that expression for the people, yes]] Before you speak, your honor, you would read the essence of this law and, I apologize for the expression, for you, its quintension.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u110	People's MP Landik, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u111	Thank you. Dear Mr. Terehin, when you discussed this bill, you logically explained the issues raised by the Constitutional Court. Is this the political feasibility that the political forces gave to the court in due course, for example, by the Court of Justice of the Mayor of Odessa, to appoint a third round of elections to be appointed by a court, not by the Constitution? This is all the same with the fact that we have the country and local authorities and the central executive authorities, and the courts are already taking over the legislation. And as long as we're down here, we're out on the street, they're gonna let us go, and the Supreme Council's gonna let us go, and they're not gonna give us an election. That is to say, we need the strict right attitude towards the judiciary of all power. And then there won't be any.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u112	Two hands for what you said, without any comments, let's say. What you said was absolutely right. But unfortunately, I'm not an expert on the question that you asked. But I am in favour of not being “independent” by the State, but serving the State in the interests of the State. That's how you do it, please, lawyers who are here full on the Supreme Council, give us a hint.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u113	Thank you, Sergey Anatolyovich. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to put questions to the vote. No objections? Paul Zebravsky, please. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u114	Dear colleagues, I address all factions of those in this room. In fact, it was in the WTO, as we entered, that we entered into a rather unfavourable environment. And so far, all governments have signed protocols, starting with 15 years of signing protocols. They've all joined in. But if we don't give ourselves the authority to raise the rates for imports into Ukraine, we're actually even more publicizing our market. Reinforces import. For this reason, I appeal to those who are willing to support, to protect their own national producer, if we trust ourselves, to vote in favour of this bill, because it is not a manual government that will install allowances, and we will, by law, establish allowances on a negative balance of payments and to protect the national producer. There's no politicized law here, it's a law for protection.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u115	Xenia Leapina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u116	Lapina, group “For Ukraine! ” Dear colleagues, we quote, excuse me, “the shadow of a clear day”. Yes, it's very simple. There is a right to set any time in any situation in the Supreme Council, and we don't need any extra law to do that. If we have a problem, we pass it, the bill, and we set it up. There's no problem. We don't. In this case, it's just a confusing situation. When we gave the right to the government unconstitutionally, it was clear why the law was adopted because there was no such right in the government, and we granted it. As it turned out, it was unconstitutional. And for ourselves, the Supreme Council, we don't have to give any additional authority, we have that right. So let's not confuse our legislation with unnecessary laws. This law is simply not necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u117	Sergei Teryohin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u118	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I'm asking a lot of questions when this kind of law is being discussed, well, actually, at least to read the technical basis before these laws. Here's what the previous reporter said, well, it shows that she didn't read it. You know what the problem is? After we have joined the World Trade Organization, we can only implement rule 12 of the GATT article by means of a special procedure established by the parliament of a country that is a member of the World Trade Organization. If such a special procedure does not exist, we do not have the capacity to use any methods or methods to protect the internal market for payment problems. So, well, before you speak, that's not the connection.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m1.u119	Dear colleagues, we have completed our consideration of the bill and would like to draw attention there to such formulations that the bills submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regarding the introduction or cancellation of the temporary procedure, the changes in the amount of the temporary allowance, including the consultations held under the established rules, within the Committee on the Limitation of the Balance of Payments of the WTO, are included in the agenda of the day's nearest plenary meeting of the Supreme Council without a vote. The draft laws on these issues, submitted by other entities under the law of the legislative initiative, are being considered on the basis of the procedure provided for by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So here, the law continues to propose the mechanism itself, the procedure for considering the relevant bills. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis and generally as a law. I'm voting on the committee's proposal in the first part to adopt the bill. [[Registration number 4767]] Please vote. Based on the base. Here comes the vote, your honors, please vote. [[18:10:52]] For-16 The decision is not taken. I'm going to put a second proposal to the vote on re-reading the draft law. [[Registration number 4767]] Please vote. Let's do it again. [[18.11:19]] For-7. The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow we'll continue our plenary work at 10 o'clock. The questions that follow the schedule will be considered. Thanks for the job.
