ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please prepare for registration. Please turn on the "Council" system. [[10:00:54]] There are 397 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The morning plenary session is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Azarova Mikoli Janović. Let us welcome our colleague, wishing him creative inspiration and success in his work. [[Applause]] One second, first information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary meetings on December 16, 2009. Five issues of the agenda have been considered, according to the results of their work: 3 laws have been passed, 1 draft decree has been rejected, 2 interim commissions of inquiry have been heard and discussed. Yes, Alexander Sergiyovich, what is our problem?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u2	Alexander Vladimirovich, that problem has arisen in the State. On the route between Herson and Nikolayev, in the snowfall, a huge number of cars were trapped, and thousands of cars were said to have collapsed. People from yesterday night after 9 p.m. are standing in this traffic, they've run out of gas, there's no food there, there's a real question about people's lives. Approximately 10 kilometers, there is the UN helicopter regiment. The MSI is trying to take action there, but nothing real is happening there yet. And people really have trouble. Therefore, I would now like to request, through the rostrum of the Supreme Council, that representatives of the Ministry of the Emergency Situation may turn to the regiment of Oonov, lift helicopters, assist people there or find an immediate alternative to the rescue of the people from this bay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u3	I hope you've been heard. I also then ask that all possible means and appeals to the regiments and facilities of our Ministry of Emergency Situations, our Ministry of Defence, be involved in helping our citizens in a situation that will endanger their health. Please, Alexander Mikolaiovich Pecklusenko. What can you add?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u4	I think the situation is unusual, Alexander Sergeyevich Efraemov very rightly, which has attracted attention. Here we must not divide by party, by faction, to focus as much on this issue as possible and ask Mr. Turkinov at least to inform the country in Parliament of how the situation is developing and what measures are being taken. Perhaps Parliament should respond with urgent funds. I ask you not to reduce the problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u5	I don't think anyone's going to minimize it. Practical help is now most needed. As far as the information is concerned, it is after the help is actually available to people. Dear colleagues, yesterday we were asked by the leaders of the five factions to give us a first look today at the first questions of ratification of international treaties, i.e. a consensus proposal. And in that case, we're changing the schedule, the order in which we're dealing with the issues at today's session. And now so do I. Mikhail. Please give me this letter. And now there's also a request signed by the five leaders of the five factions to review the ratification, and today to schedule a project to amend the laws of Ukraine to provide information on content in the production of genetically modified components. This is what our citizens’ health is all about. And 4437 is about the safety and quality of food products for informing citizens about the presence of genetically modified organisms in food. Well, we'll figure that out when we get to it, so. This is a consensus proposal, so I think we're taking this order of work. Dear colleagues, the draft Law on the Ratification of the Framework Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Indonesia on cooperation in research and the use of space for peaceful purposes is under consideration. [[Registration number 0149]] Reported by Deputy Director General of the National Space Agency Kuznietsov Eduardo Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u6	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! Dear National Deputies! I will report on the review of the draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Supreme Council of the Framework Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Indonesia on cooperation in the field of research and the use of space for peaceful purposes prepared by the National Space Agency of Ukraine in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers Rules. The need for the adoption of the law is based on the fact that the Supreme Council should consider and adopt the Ukrainian Law on the implementation of all internal procedures necessary for the effectiveness of the treaty. Ratification. The implementation of the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Framework Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Indonesia on cooperation in the field of research and the use of space for peaceful purposes does not require changes to the current legislation of Ukraine. The financing of expenditure related to the implementation of the provisions of the Framework Agreement is planned to be carried out at the expense of the State budget, which is allocated to finance a state-wide targeted space programme. The implementation of Ukraine’s law does not require additional costs from the State Budget. The draft law of Ukraine is in line with all the ministries and departments interested in this, and the relevant decision of the Cabinet of Ministers to submit the Framework Agreement for ratification to the Supreme Council of Ukraine has been adopted. Ukraine’s draft law has been considered positively by the Committees of the Supreme Council. The political and socio-economic implications of the framework agreement are to strengthen Ukraine's position as a reliable partner in the field of research and the use of space for peaceful purposes and the possibility of furtherance of Ukraine's space sector on the global market for space services and high technology. The Framework Agreement provides legal basis for implementing Ukrainian-Indonesia projects in space, such as the development in Indonesia of a meteorological missile, satellites of remote sensing of the Earth, the provision of launch services, and the training of Indonesian experts in space-related matters. Please support the adoption of this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u7	Thank you. Any questions for the reporter? No questions asked. Please have a seat. Thank you. Thank you. Please, you can sit down. It's a report from the committee. National MP Crnowil Taras Vjačeslavovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u8	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished fellow national MPs! This agreement is directly beneficial for Ukraine, since Ukraine is a member of a prestigious club of space nations that is active in this field. And in this case, we're not a consumer, we're a service provider, so in space, we can actually make money, in space, we can create for the implementation of international space projects to create new, additional places, we can invest resources for the state budget. And that's why we have a sense of adopting exactly the same kind of framework agreement -- and this is the classic structure agreement on this issue -- with all the countries in the world that have an interest in space. In this case, we have more with Indonesia. We already have real cooperation. It has been said that meteorological issues, issues of providing educational and scientific services that are consultative in this regard, communications issues, and so forth. These are things that are being done, indeed, in the space field already today for the promotion of Ukraine. But it was precisely the signing of this agreement that caused further cooperation with Indonesia in this regard, cooperation that brought us additional financial resources and was beneficial for Ukraine, to be blocked because the undefined basic principles of cooperation were not set the basic norms of ours. The legal standards of our joint activity. And that's why we need to urgently, really ratify this agreement, and then all of the standards of our Ukrainian domestic legislation are respected. It does not change the laws in force, it is adopted entirely on the basis of existing legislation, both in Ukraine and in Indonesia. It doesn't affect the state budget, neither the income nor the spending part, that's, that's the conclusion of the relevant budget committee. Likewise, the Industrial Committee. On matters of industrial and regulatory policy and entrepreneurship, he discussed at his meeting and recommended that the decision be supported. The only warning to her is that, like all the ratification projects that are going through the Supreme Council, it again contains some minor faults in its formulation, which is the conclusion of the regulatory committee. And once again, I request the Cabinet of Ministers, let the Minister of the Cabinet come to the head of our regular committee, find out what the problems are, and let us no longer have these warnings, which are constantly emerging. Then the Committee on Foreign Affairs at its meeting supported the ratification of this agreement and asked you to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u9	Is there a question for a co-conspirator? No questions asked. Thank you. Have a seat, please. Is there a need to discuss? No, no one insists. Thank you. I am voting on the adoption of the Law on the Ratification of the Framework Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Indonesia on cooperation in research and the use of space for peaceful purposes. [[Registration number 0149]] I'd like to make a statement. [[10:12:17]] For-300 The law is passed. The treaty has been ratified. The draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation on measures for the protection of technology in relation to cooperation in the field of research and the use of space for peaceful purposes and the creation and operation of missile and missile technology is under consideration. Registration number 0150. Reported by Deputy Director General of the National Space Agency Kuznietsov Eduardo Ivanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u10	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies! Your opinion is proposed for consideration by the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation on measures for the protection of technology in relation to cooperation in the field of research and the use of space for peaceful purposes and in the creation and operation of rocket and rocket technology. The adoption of the law is based on the need for ratification of the Ukrainian Treaty Act, which was signed on 11 June 2009 in Moscow, and is defined by the Ukrainian International Contracts Act. The agreement sets out how to protect Ukrainian missile and space technologies and fulfil Ukraine's obligations to protect Russian Federation missile and space technologies, including when joint projects are implemented with third countries. The financing of the expenditure related to the implementation of the terms of the agreement is planned to be carried out both at the expense of the State budget for 2010 and subsequent years for the financing of applied scientific and scientific and technical developments, the execution of public-purpose programmes and public procurement in the space sector, as well as the funds planned for the 2008-2012 global space science and technology programme. The implementation of Ukraine’s law does not require additional costs from the State Budget. The provisions of the Agreement relate to the interests of the National Space Agency, as well as the State Intelligence Service, the State Customs Service and the Security Service, within its competence, which will be involved in the implementation of the provisions of the Agreement. The draft law of Ukraine was accepted without regard to all ministries, adopted by the Cabinet of Ministers Regulation on the Agreement for the Ratification of the Supreme Council. Ukraine’s draft law has been considered positively by the Committees of the Supreme Council. The treaty to be ratified should be the legal basis for joint projects and for the conclusion of new contracts, further development of a contractual and legal framework for space cooperation. Ensure the protection of Ukrainian missile and space technologies and fulfil Ukraine's obligations to protect Russian Federation missile and space technology, including when implementing joint projects with third countries. To promote closer cooperation between Ukraine and the Russian Federation in the space sphere, Ukraine's international cooperation in exploration and the use of space for peaceful purposes, its continued active participation in international space activities. Please support the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation (on measures for the protection of technology in relation to cooperation in the field of research and the use of space for peaceful purposes and the creation and operation of rocket and rocket technology). Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u11	Is there a question for Eduardo Ivanovich? Please sign in. N.O.T., please. He's handing over the right to the question to the Key Jury Bogdanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u12	Thank you, Yuri Klukkowski, “Our Ukraine”. I'd like you in less regular terms to explain to the Chamber the benefits of the Ukrainian side of this agreement. And which party will benefit more from the possibility of protecting its secrets to the other side, taking into account the practice of keeping the agreements between the two parties?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u13	Thank you. I should point out that perhaps more than this deal, the Ukrainian side will win. This agreement, it is designed to ensure that we do not have any obstacles to our central project in this space program, which we are implementing with Brazil “Cyclo 4” – “Alkantara Space”. The point is that this agreement will provide an opportunity to isolate some of the attempts to curb this cooperation from the Russian Federation. And that's why we predict that when we work on this project, "Cyclonal - Alkantar Space," and on other projects, I mean, we're going to implement the project, we're already starting to implement the project with the United States of America "Tauros-2," this agreement will give us the opportunity to work civilized in the legal field, as we're going to protect both our technologies and the technologies that we have in common with the Russian Federation.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u14	School of Andriy Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u15	Thank you. It is Edward Ivanovich who has already answered the question that I wanted to ask, just in a different form, because it is this ratification that will ensure that we use the Brazilian cosmodre and we will be able to use land launches on a continuous basis. Because the history with the launches of the sea “.” is now complete and this is what this agreement is needed for. But I would like to ask this in the form of a question. Please tell me, when will the start-up agreement from the Alkantars start? Please, I'd like you to say that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u16	Thank you for the questions, because it probably concerns our entire community and the MPs, and the National Space Agency. The fact is that this agreement is being implemented, it is progressing quite successfully. The tasks assigned to Ukraine, the production of Cylon-4 missiles, have been completed by about 75 percent. The main work is now developing and starting with the creation of a ground-based space launch complex at the Alkantara Cosmodrome. When we get the opportunity to launch our Cylons from the Brazilian cosmodre, we get independent access to the launches of our national, Brazilian national and commercial satellites. This is an extremely beneficial project and its implementation is likely to be fully implemented since the age of 11.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u17	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u18	Yury Karmazin Party of Motherland Defenders. I have two questions. First remark. I don't know, I've already put on my glasses, but I'm gonna need a magnifying glass brother, you've already done twice as much font for this deal as you did for the previous one. Well, MPs are also people, I'd like to remember that, we read thousands of pages a day. I ask the Supreme Council Secretariat not to accept documents such as those that are harmful. If the union were working here, and not just doing other things, then our rights would be protected as people, not as cattle, because otherwise I don't call it. Now it's about the essence of the question. Article 3: “According to each other’s requests, clarifications and relevant information are promptly provided from technical, organisational, legal and other questions concerning the treatment of protected products and technologies, including their register.” Isn't that a legal possibility for virtually normal espionage, just legal espionage. So let me ask you a question, from the point of view of counterintelligence.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u19	Thank you. I'd like to answer. First question. We're not very involved in the reproduction of materials. So I'm sorry, it's not our competence, unfortunately, and we're not involved in this. As for the second question, I want to point out that, of course, this cooperation is extremely broad, and the Russian Federation and I have extremely close contacts. So what's now being created, it basically has this general scientific access and technology that's in Ukraine and in Russia, they're essentially complementing each other. And that's why there's probably no special ones for spy jobs. And I'm sure that this collaboration that it is will only promote both our rocket and space technology and Russian rocket and space technology, because we are extremely connected with schools and technology.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u20	Thank you, Edward Ivanovich, please sit down. A report from Taras Viacheslavovich Czarnovil.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u21	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished fellow national MPs! This agreement, like the previous one, has actually been accepted, has been signed in the development of existing contacts. As long as there was great friendship and great love with Russia, the need to sign the corresponding agreements was ignored very often, everything was going as if it were on an onslaughted basis, not taking into account the norms that international law requires to regulate. Now that there's a little bit less love, more will have to be done to produce documents that regulate everything. This agreement is not only necessary in the relationship between Ukraine and Russia, because we also have to protect our rights, we can get access to information, to technical documentation and Russia, too, when we have, we guarantee that we will not distribute in an impossible way the information provided by the Russian Federation, but this agreement also matters to our work with third parties. Today, one of our colleagues has mentioned how our projects with Brazil are being prepared, about land launches, but when we go to such markets, when we go to such contacts, we also have to imagine that we have a fully agreed system for storing information with third parties, that is, we have to fill in a fully contractual basis, on a contractual basis, on these issues. In this regard, therefore, this covenant is needed and beneficial to the Ukrainian State. Now, as far as passing is concerned. The Committee on Foreign Affairs has clearly supported the ratification of this agreement, the Committee on National Security of the Supreme Council of Ukraine supports, the Chief Scientific and Expert Support, the Committee on Budgets concluded that the agreement does not affect the income and expenditure of the State budget, so it can be ratified. And as always, there are, in the drafting of the treaty, there are some violations on the part of the Cabinet, from the point of view of the Regulatory Committee, I repeat that these violations need to be removed once and for all in order for us to get the flawless documents. On behalf of the committee, please support the ratification.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u22	Is there a question for a co-conspirator? No questions asked. Please sit down, Taras Vjačeslavovich. Is there a need to discuss? There's no need for that. I am voting on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation on measures for the protection of technology in connection with cooperation in the field of research and the use of space for peaceful purposes and the creation and operation of missile and missile technology. [[Registration number 0150]] I'd like to make a statement. [[10:25:26]] For 367 Decision adopted, law approved. The draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Korea on the amendment of the Trade Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Korea since 30 November 1995 is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 0135]] Reported Deputy Minister of EconomicsPojenov Mikhailo Aleksandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u23	Honourable Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished national MPs, the draft law was designed to implement the internal procedures necessary for the entry into force of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Korea to amend the Trade Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Korea since 30 November 1995, signed on 13 October 2008 in Kiev. According to section “B” of part two of article 9 of the Ukrainian Law “On International Contracts”, the said agreement is subject to ratification by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, by adopting the Law on Ratification. By agreement, the Contracting Parties agree to establish an Inter-Governmental Ukrainian-Korean Commission for Trade and Economic Cooperation with a view to promoting the two States in areas of common interest, defining the mandate of the Commission, the frequency of meetings, the financial security of its activities, the order of meetings and the decision-making process. The effectiveness of the agreement and the implementation of its provisions will contribute to the development of bilateral trade and economic relations between Ukraine and the Republic of Korea in various areas. Please support the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Korea amending the Trade Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Korea since 30 November 1995. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u24	Thank you, Mikhail Alexanderovich. Any questions for Michael Alexanderovich? I have a question for you. Please tell me why he was so quick to ratify this document so quickly since November 1995.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u25	No, no. Alexandre Volodymyrovich, this is a change, this is an addition to the 1995 agreement, and it was signed on October 13, 2008. I mean, this is a change to a treaty that was ratified, and it worked.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u26	Thank you, thank you. Thank you, Mikhail Alexanderovich. Have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u27	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u28	The committee's report is Taras Viacheslavovich Czarnovil.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u29	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! Dear fellow national MPs! I don't think it's going to be too long for anyone to explain how important it is for us today to have a relationship in the economic sphere, in the trade sphere with such a powerful developing state, one of the Asian tigers, with the Republic of Korea. As far as this agreement is concerned, as has already been said, it is only with this ratification that we are making some minor changes to the agreement in force, without changing the meaning of this agreement altogether. The agreement continues to work in its entirety. The only thing that we're clarifying all the mechanisms is the proper establishment of governmental intergovernmental commissions that provide adequate results on the basis of which further direct agreements can be made in each area of direct activity, which we've always taken very seriously without such a regulation. The Committee on Foreign Affairs had no reservations about this agreement. There were no warnings from other committees and the Scientific and Scientific Administration. It does not affect the income-generating part of the state budget, so it can be ratified. The only warning we've come up with is that, according to the International Contracts Act in force today, the respective agreements should not be ratified. But since the basic agreement of 1995 was ratified before the new treaty was adopted, any changes to it are also subject to ratification. A new treaty of this type would not be subject to ratification. Thank you for your attention. Please support the Committee's decision in foreign matters and vote in favour of ratifying the changes to the agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u30	Is there a question for Taras Viacheslavovich? No questions asked. Thank you. Have a seat, please. Is there a need to discuss? There's no need for that. I am voting on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Korea on the amendment of the Trade Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Korea since 30 November 1995. [[Registration number 0135]] I'd like to make a statement. [[10:30:36]] For-360 The law's been passed. A draft law on the adoption of the Recommendation of the Customs Cooperation Council on the amendment to the Convention on the Establishment of a Customs Association Council is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 0136]] Reported the first deputy head of the State Customs Service, Pikovsky Igor Aleksandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u31	Dear Lord Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The draft Law of Ukraine on the Adoption of the Recommendation of the Customs Association Council on the Amendment to the Convention on the Establishment of a Customs Association Council developed by the State Customs Service of Ukraine and submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine by the President of Ukraine. Ukraine became a contracting party to the Convention on the Establishment of a Customs Association Council by joining this convention by the Supreme Council Regulation in June 1992. 30 June 2007 during the 110th session of the Customs Association Council. In accordance with article 20 of the convention, the Council recommended to the Contracting Parties to the Convention amendments to the convention. The proposed changes are made in the form of the relevant Recommendation of the Customs Association Council. The recommendation is to amend the two articles of the convention with a view to granting customs and economic unions, including the European Union, the right to become contracting parties to the convention and to become members of the World Customs Organization. Accordingly, the recommendations of the Customs Cooperation Council regarding the amendment to the Convention on the Establishment of a Customs Cooperation Council should be made in the form of acceptance by the States. Thus, the approval of amendments to the convention should take place through the adoption of that recommendation. The adoption of this law will contribute to the further development of cooperation between the customs administrations of Ukraine and other member countries of the World Customs Organization, as well as a positive assessment by the European Union. So far, 38 member states of the World Customs Organization have approved amendments to the Convention on the Establishment of the Customs Cooperation Council. Please support and accept the proposed bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u32	Thank you. Any questions for Igor Alexanderovich? No questions asked. Thank you. Please sit down. Coroner's report, Taras Viacheslavovich Czarnovil
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u33	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies! The ratification is sufficiently technical and does not make significant changes except for two points on the system of international cooperation. The adoption of the law on ratification does not affect the revenue and expenditure portion of the State budget, supported by the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, supported by the relevant committees of the Supreme Council. And in this regard, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, having fully studied and listened to all the arguments regarding the need for ratification of the agreement, recommended that the Supreme Council support ratification. Please support the Committee's decision in foreign matters and vote in favour of the ratification of the Agreement to Amend the Convention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u34	Is there a question for a co-conspirator? None. Thank you. Have a seat, please. Is there a need to discuss? There's no need. I would like to vote on the draft law on the adoption of the Recommendation of the Customs Cooperation Council concerning the amendment to the Convention on the Establishment of a Customs Association Council. [[Registration number 0136]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[10:35:21]] For 336 The law's been passed. A draft Act on Ukraine's accession to the Convention on Colleagues of Laws relating to the Form of Covenants is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 0145]] Reported Deputy Justice Minister Lutkovska Valerija Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u35	Thank you. The Honourable Alexandre Volodymyrovich, distinguished national MPs, is submitting to your consideration a draft law on Ukraine's accession to the Convention on Colleagues of Laws, which relates to the form of covenants. The purpose of the draft law is to carry out internal procedures with a view to making the convention effective. This convention was organized within the framework of the Hague Conference on Private International Law, and for the time being, it has 41 states of the world. This convention defines all possible types of collective norms that apply to the form of covenants. The Convention provides an effective solution to the question of what right can be applied to the form of a will; it helps to avoid the conflicts that arise in the recognition of covenants in view of their form. The operative part of the draft law provides for an association with the specified convention with warnings to articles 9, 10 and 12, which are formulated in the light of the requirements of the Ukrainian Law on International Private Law and the Civil Code of Ukraine. Today, the law applicable to the form of covenants is practically provided for in article 72 of the Ukrainian Law on International Private Law. It should be noted that article 72 of the law and article 1 of the convention provides for the same colossal ties that apply to the form of covenants. Thus, joining the convention does not need to change the current legislation of Ukraine. In view of the above, we cannot agree with the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office and the Committee on Legal Policy of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the formulation of a warning to article 13 of the Convention, since the acquisition of the Convention of validity will not change the conditions for recognition of the forms of covenants that were previously drawn up. There is also no basis for complementing the project with transitional provisions aimed at preparing changes to the Ukrainian Civil Code, which were proposed by the Chief Scientific and Expert Office and the Committee on the basis of article 10 of the Convention. Since the possibility of making oral wills in Ukraine is not provided for by legislation, there is no basis for regulating the features of this form of will in Ukraine. The oral form of the will is unique and provided for by the legislation of only some States to be used only in urgent cases where a person does not have the opportunity and time to make an official written will and yet there is a high risk of his death. Article 10 was incorporated into the Convention by its developers as an additional guarantee of the mere inability to use the oral form of covenants under normal conditions. In this regard, we believe that there is no need for any change in the legislation of Ukraine, and the Convention can accordingly be ratified by the law that is now before you. The implementation of the draft law, we hope, will only improve the legal protection of Ukrainian citizens. In this regard, I ask you to support the adoption of this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u36	Thank you, Valery Volodymyr. Any questions? No questions, thank you. Please sit Valeria Volodymyrna. A report from the committee. Taras Vjačeslavovich Czarnovil
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u37	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues of the Ukrainian national deputies! The Committee on Foreign Affairs discussed at its meeting a draft law on Ukraine’s accession to the Convention on Colleagues of Laws, which relates to the form of a will. We noted at the meeting that it is indeed an absolutely urgent document today, taking into account the tremendous volume of labour migration, legal and illegal, Ukrainians abroad, the large number of accidents, the deaths there, the integration of Ukraine into the international tourism system, the international exchange of labour, and so forth, also foresees the need to solve these problems. International marriages and so forth. This is what becomes a characteristic of Ukraine. So for today, we had to put all those questions into perspective. The convention does not conflict with the laws of Ukraine and we are here. supported the committee's unequivocal position as deputy minister who reported, and we have the same on our committee that. on the three warnings made by the Ukrainian party when signing. There is no violation of Ukrainian legislation when acceding to the Convention. With regard to the most controversial issue of oral form, it can only be applied in the case of combat actions, and so on, when a person cannot really make any form of covenant and terminates immediately after the proper threat has ended, which cannot be extended throughout the period of the threat to the general, but only to specific very short episodes and incidents. This is especially true of Ukrainian peacekeepers. and Ukrainian police services that are outside Ukraine. This is important to them, too. Therefore, the High Council Committee on Foreign Affairs asks to support the ratification of the Agreement. We ask you to take into account the Ministry's position on these warnings that have been made, and we also support the position that there are specific points in the decision of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. We've discussed this in detail, and we absolutely clearly believe that the logic in the proposed text is absolute, it's not contrary to the laws of Ukraine, and the main thing is that it meets the immediate interests and needs of Ukrainian citizens who may find themselves in such difficult situations. Therefore, I ask you to support the Committee's decision in foreign matters and to vote in favour of ratification. under the Ukrainian Act on the Association of Ukraine to the Convention on Colleagues of Laws concerning the Form of Covenants. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u38	Thank you. Any questions for the reporter? No questions asked. Is there a need to discuss? There's no need. I am voting on the draft Act on Ukraine's accession to the Convention on Collegiate Laws, which relates to the form of covenants. [[Registration number 0145]] I'd like to make a statement. [[10:42:11]] For 345. The law's been passed. Dear colleagues, we can now consider two draft laws that relate to genetically modified organisms and genetically modified components. It was suggested that we consider these draft laws by means of a reduced procedure. I'm voting on this proposal. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:42:51]] For a hundred and Decision taken. A draft Act amending the laws of Ukraine on the provision of information on the content of genetically modified components is being announced for consideration. Registration number 3230. Reported by Ukrainian national deputy Zarubinsky Oleg Aleksandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u39	Dear colleagues, a bill is being proposed that defines the mechanism for providing information on the content of genetically modified components. This bill provides for amendments to two laws: the Ukrainian Consumer Rights Act, as well as the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences. What is envisaged in the change plan to the Consumer Rights Act and why I, as the author of the legislative initiative, believe that this law should be amended accordingly. The problem is that the main victim of non-labelling, non-aggression, or non-addition of any information on GMO content to foods is primarily consumerism. In countries of the European Union -- and this is a general practice -- even when GMO products are used, it's absolutely clear in supermarkets, even in separate parts of this supermarket: products are environmentally clean, without GMO content, here's the content of GMOs. And the main thing is that the price of these products depends on it. Because the price of organically clean, without GMO content, is 1.5 times higher. What's going on? It is known that 80 percent of the so-called so-called "GMO" in Ukraine is known that we have 50-60 percent food with GMO content, but our consumer can't know anywhere, but where the product contains GMOs. Moreover, whoever sells these products puts the price not on the bottom scale, but on the top scale, it's like they're organic products. Therefore, honourable colleagues are invited to make such an amendment, such a change to the first law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u40	Please, yes, continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u41	An important law, well, really, in two minutes, it's impossible. Imports to be made with an indication of whether or not there are genetically modified components in food. What's the novelty here? It's not just that they're not there. And we need to motivate a manufacturer that produces clean products, environmental ones, without the GMO content to say that there is no GMO, you know, and by doing so, increasing the competitiveness of their products is the right thing to do. My experts are telling me right from the hall. And the second change, it is suggested that if a seller manufacturer finds unreliable information about the product, if it doesn't harm life, health, or consumer property, it removes the product from the sale within a week and brings the information about it to an appropriate level. And they're going into the code. The Code on Administrative Offences strengthens the responsibility for providing unreliable information. It's a very simple law, but it's very important to consumers of food. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u42	Thank you, Oleg Alexanderovich. Please sit down. The profile committee didn't consider this bill, so there won't be any co-reports. Please sign up for the discussion. Stone Valery Grigorovitch, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u43	Kamchatny, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko”, Kharkiv region. Dear colleague, I fully support your initiative, your bill that our consumers have the right to receive this information. But I do have this question: Is that all I need to do? I think we need to move on, move on. Maybe it would be advisable to make a law that would cover the need for marking not only relative to genetically modified materials, but also, let's say, powder, if made, powdered milk, powdered wine and so on. In general, our consumer should know the truth about all the ingredients, all the technologies, and then make your choice. And in general, I support your initiative. I call for a vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u44	Thank you. All who wanted to participate in the discussion spoke out. Now from the factions that didn't register, one minute is Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u45	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, this law has been in the Supreme Council for over a year. For over a year, he had no turn. Although it's been a long time since an explanatory note, because the government has finally made the right decision about marking. But this decision is actually blocked by manufacturers and not implemented. This requires that the power of the law be given. And the indication of whether or not there is a genetic-modified component in food will protect every citizen and meet the rules of the Constitution. That's the first one. And the second. We will never have to do anything unless we are responsible. It is absolutely right that in this law, I thank the Zarubinsky and Shepelev National Deputies for proposing that administrative responsibility be imposed immediately. I just wanted to advise them because I was also working on this problem and bringing these things in a few years ago, and a few years ago, I claimed that these things were dangerous. We're going to have to ask questions about criminal responsibility in some cases, because the gene pool of the nation is at risk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u46	Thank you. Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u47	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Thank you to colleagues for supporting this initiative. And in turn, to make it clear that there is absolutely no claim to any kind of authorship, but there is a desire to solve the problem. I would like to point out that my colleague, who is proposing a bill on the same subject, is proposing to amend another law on the safety and quality of food, which is absolutely correct. Thus, by adopting the second and second drafts, we could prepare a bill for the second reading on amendments to the three laws already in place: “To protect the rights of consumers”, “To protect the safety of products” and “to protect the rights of consumers”. And so that would be a pretty complete solution to that question. I would ask my colleague to vote both in favour of my bill and on the basis of a bill that will now be reported by my colleague Pavlovski, this is for solving the issue, not for authorship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u48	Dear colleagues! The discussion is concluded, and I am voting on the approval in the first reading of the draft Law on Amendments to the Laws of Ukraine. [[Registration number 3230]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[10:51:30.]] For 354 Approved in first reading. Dear colleagues! The law is not really big, very clear, absolutely clear. There are desires that are expressed by the Scientific and Experimental Authority and by certain other subjects that relate to either the burning of sanctions or the changing of the term, let's say, the elimination of the disadvantages that will be revealed. Or what applies to complex regulation in all laws. We were always better enemies of the good, for we sometimes lost good in our efforts to do better. So I have this proposal, if there's no denying that we're going to adopt this law as a whole right now. Is there a denial? There's no objection. Can we put it to a vote? I would like to vote on the whole draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Ukraine's Laws. [[on the provision of content information in the production of genetically modified components]] [[Registration number 3230]] I'd like to make a statement. [[10:52:53]] For 352 The law has been passed in general. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Food Safety and Quality Act is being announced for consideration. [[on informing citizens about the presence of genetically modified organisms in food]] [[Registration number 4437]] Reported by the Ukrainian national deputy Pavlovsky Andry Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u49	Dear National Deputies, Honourable Alexandre Volodymyrovich, your attention is given to the bill on amendments to the law on the safety and quality of food. [[4437]] This bill has been brought to your attention for the fulfilment of Ukraine’s international obligations, including the Cartagena Treaty since 2002, which has obliged European countries to mark, to provide information to the population about the content of GMOs in products. And to implement the 50th article of the Constitution, which states that the consumer has the right to know the full and reliable information about the products he consumes and no one has the right to conceal it. I propose article 38 of the Act, which defines the requirements for the labelling of products, to add another indicator, which is now nine, to add a tenth index of mandatory information, to the content of GMOs in foodstuffs. I want to point out that we now have fairly widely used genetically modified organisms, almost half the products already contain this, these bills by my own and Mr. Zarubinski we do not prohibit the use of GMOs, but the fundamental human right to choose, to get information that it consumes, we must ensure. [[scientific progress remains unstoppable]] Please be supportive. I would like to point out that all the professional committees -- both health and environmental protection -- and European integration supported this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u50	Thank you, sit down, please. The report from the committee is Tetjana Dmitrovna Bacheviva. And please, the committee's report will be -- the national deputy of Haydayav.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u51	Dear Alexander Vladimirovich! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! The purpose of the bill is to establish, at the legislative level, requirements for the labelling of food products containing or using genetically modified organisms. To this end, article 38 of the Ukrainian Food Safety and Quality Act is proposed to supplement paragraph 10 of the following content: “All food products which are in circulation by Ukraine shall contain on the label information on the availability or absence of food products of genetically modified organisms, whether written by GMOs or without”. [[GMO]] With regard to the idea of the bill itself, it is necessary to establish such requirements on the basis of law to ensure that consumers have the right to reliable and complete information on the quality and safety of food products. To date, this issue has been resolved only on the basis of Cabinet Order No. 468, which approves the labelling of GMO food products. Our committee supported this bill and proposes to supplement its requirements for the quantitative content of GMOs in products as provided for in European Union and Russian legislation. Both in the European Union and in Russia, products produced from or containing GMOs shall be mandatoryly marked if the product contains more than 0.9 per cent relative to the components. If the GMO content is less than 09, the product may be placed on the market without special marking. Therefore, the Committee on Recovery supported the bill, provided that the quantity of GMO 09 was quantified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u52	Thank you, sit down, please. Let's sign up for a discussion. Arjev Vladimir Igorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u53	Dear colleagues, today we find ourselves in a situation where we go, like every citizen in Ukraine, to a store, often doesn't know what he's buying. In addition, genetically modified organisms that are introduced into products are quite innovative, and so far no scientist with a high probability will say what can happen to the person who is using this product in 10, 20 years. And how this will affect the genetic code of man and how it will be transmitted in generations. Hence, each person’s right to choose whether to take a risk or to seek, spend more time, and seek products that are clean from genetically modified organisms. Today, when we come to supermarkets, to stores, and even to markets, we don't know what we're buying. For example, as far as I've read, in tomatoes that are now beautiful in stores, they use the gene of sharks to make it look good and stored for a long time. Once again, however, how this affects human health, how this affects human genetic code, is still unknown. Hence, this law is of great importance today, and it must be adopted and not delayed, but adopted as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u54	Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u55	Dear colleagues, I apologize for taking the floor again, but I want to pay attention to, I think, the wrong position of GMOs. Some say that this is progress, including food. I think that's not true. If GMOs are really used in biotechnology, in genetic engineering, and you can't stop progress here, when you speak. By the way, I want to say it's hard to imagine medicine now, for example without GM insulin and GM interferon. But when it comes to food, you have to say clearly that GMOs can't be there. I can't agree with my respectable colleagues that this can't affect anything, that it hasn't been studied yet. Studyed. The evidence that GMO use is harmful is sufficient. There have been experiments on rats, and you know they're close, let's say, with some reactions. She, the GMO potato, had an impact on the genetic apparatus of animals. The females ate their offspring, became aggressive, and then they stopped multiplying. Recently, there has been a phenomenon like the bee collapse, by the way. This is when the swarm leaves its place and does not return, and the mother stays in place. In the U.S., where GMOs are used almost uncontrollablely, 90 percent of the streets that are interested may already be empty. So to say that something can be allowed in food is not. And as for Ukrainian scientists, they've actually divided into two parts -- those on transnational corporations that have billions of profits, based on the use of genetically modified organisms, and the second group stands for a different position, the next position is that if animal studies have shown that GMO food is dangerous to humans, it is impossible to take risks, experiment on humans anymore. Please support your colleague's bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u56	Thank you, Oleg Alexanderovich. The discussion is over. All those who wanted to speak. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the first reading of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Food Safety and Quality Act. [[Registration number 4437]] I'd like to make a statement. [[11:02:00]] For 350. Decision taken. Please, on the matter of further procedure, National Deputy Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u57	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, this law can be passed in general. I just wanted us to point out and give the commission to the committee, because when we look at the old edition, the original edition, that is, and the proposed edition, part three of us has this little thing written down for ourselves that we once did, like absolutely lobbyist. Why? The act of this law there does not extend to tobacco and tobacco products and special food requirements related to the availability of genetically modified organisms or their components, which are subject to the regulation of special legislation also for food products produced for personal consumption. In this editorial, the National MP is now improving the editorial process, but the commission is still to be given and then removed from here in further tobacco. So I propose that we put this bill in place as a whole, because in the previous law we have already adopted standards that are absolutely appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u58	Mr. Haydaev Yuri Aleksandrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u59	Dear colleagues, the law is excellent, which must be adopted. By the way, the Cabinet of Ministers decree was the first to mark the mandatory marking of 0.9 and above in 2007. I ask you to take a positive view of the Committee. If we do not now make an amendment, which can be written that more than 0.9 per cent of GMOs, if any, contain and if not not write. These are European practices and practices of the European Union. Our businesses will then not be able to trade with these countries. It'll be the most incomprehensible. I repeat this, European and world practice. The Committee therefore insists that the marking should be 0.9 and above with the GMO – less without. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u60	Dear colleagues, we have two suggestions. The first proposal for the adoption of this bill as a whole. It's really very simple. The two standards and the main point are only in the 10th part of the second article 38, where the point is that there must be a label that will allow you to know exactly whether or not there are genetically modified organisms in food. There is a proposal now made by Yuri Alexanderovich Haydaev that it is necessary for this marking to take place only after a certain threshold has been set. I have a question then to the session room and, above all, to Yuri Aleksandrovitch. There will be an insistence that we prepare for the second reading then and discuss it. Can we vote in general?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u61	Dear colleagues, I offer you such a compromise. We are voting as a whole, and the Cabinet of Ministers' decision can resolve this difference that is taking place.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u62	Dear colleagues, Yuri Alexanderovich withdrew his warning. That is why I am voting as a whole as a bill of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Food Safety and Quality Act. [[Registration number 4437]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:06:04]] For 375 The law's been passed. Dear colleagues, a proposal came from the leaders of the five factions of Parliament. I want to say that we have a consensus job today, and we have all the decisions taken by 300 votes. The proposal is that now, after considering the issues that we have considered, we consider the draft Law on Temporary Special and Temporary Commissions of Inquiry. If factions don't object to the faction leadership proposal, we can now move on to this consideration. No one's denying it. Please, the microphone of Deputy Cosemyakina.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u63	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! We know this bill very well. We've already considered it in the Supreme Council, we've voted. Then the veto was imposed on him. There was a decision by the Constitutional Court. You know why. For the reason that this bill was wrongly signed. So I think, if there's a proposal on our part to consider this bill in the first reading of the simplified procedure, I don't think anyone will object to this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u64	I'm voting on a motion to review this draft law with a reduced procedure. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:07:54]] For-182 Decision taken. A draft Law on Temporary Commissions of Inquiry, a special interim commission of inquiry, and temporary special commissions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has been announced for consideration. Registration number 5163. Reports the Head of the Committee on Rules, MPs, and the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Efraemov Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u65	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies! Decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u66	Alexander Sergiyovich, please, one second. We have this question to put into the order of the day at first. I'm sorry I called. Because we don't have it in the agenda. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the day session the draft Law on Temporary Inquiry Commissions, a special interim commission of inquiry and temporary special commissions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Registration number 5163. Please identify yourself. [[11:09:17]] For 318 Included in the agenda of the day session. Please, Alexander Sergiyovich, we are considering a draft law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u67	By a decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of 10 September 2009, the Ukrainian Law “On Temporary Investigations Commissions, a Special Temporary Investigation Commission, temporary Special Investigations Commissions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine” was declared unconstitutional and invalidated. In view of the fact that the Constitutional Court of Ukraine has examined the specified law in principle and has declared it unconstitutional in connection with the violation of the constitutional procedure for the adoption of the law, noting that the re-examined law should contain the date of its re-admission on 3 March 2009 and the signing by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the text of the law adopted by Parliament, the committee at its meeting on 23 September 2009 considered the proposal of the National Deputys of Ukraine, members of the Committee for the submission to the Supreme Council of the new bill on interim follow-up committees, the special interim commission of inquiry and the temporary special commissions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, prepared on the basis of the Ukrainian Law on Temporary Follow-up to the Commission, the special commission of the 3 special commission of the temporary commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Committee noted once again that the Constitutional Court of Ukraine had passed a decision on the unconstitutionality of the said law at a closed session in violation of the requirements of article 153 of the Constitution of Ukraine, according to which the order, organization and functioning of the Constitutional Court were governed by the Ukrainian Act on the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, only by the organization, authority and order of operation of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, and that the procedure for its consideration was governed by the provisions of part two of article 3 of this Act, not by law, but by an act on the organisation of its internal activities, i.e. by regulation.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u68	Please, Alexander Sergiyovich, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u69	Ukraine, which questions the constitutionality of its decisions. The Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt Bill 5163 as a whole. Please be supportive. Yes, colleagues, and in general right away, because we've already considered this bill, and I agree with my colleagues, the one that has been worked on by a large number of deputies, including those in this room.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u70	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Please sign up for the discussion. Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u71	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. My fellow Members, it seems to me that in our House of People's Deputies there is a consensus on this bill, because everyone was not in the party or faction plan, they understand that without Parliament, without the presence of mechanisms in Parliament, there is no need for a tool to talk about the people's property. And no matter what attacks other branches of government that work, by the way, do not do, in a very mild sense, successfully electing a Parliament simply by its own side, everyone is well aware that there are no democratic countries in which Parliament functions formally. The presence of real-life, effective-acting, with a certain commission toolbox, both special and investigators, is just a necessary element of the effectiveness and effectiveness of our work with you. So only one suggestion is to support this bill. And I think we could accept it today and in general with the fact that what we create, I mean the committee of informal signs by which certain authorities of the state, the law enforcement authorities even allow themselves not to provide any information, but to really be powerful units, if you want, parliamentary work. I propose to vote in favour of this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u72	Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u73	Dear colleagues, such a bill as we are currently considering, with such a long and interesting story, Parliament has not yet had. This bill should be included in the Guinness Book of Records, because since the adoption of practically the Constitution of 96, 89th article of the Constitution gives Parliament the right to set up commissions and at the same time this article determines that the work of such commissions should be regulated by the law on these committees. Those who have already called in this Parliament remember that there has been no convening of a parliament, which has been convened at least twice or three times. I'd consider a similar bill. Not one of the presidents has ever wanted to define or recognize these laws before this time, because these laws do. More loyally, the Act on the Activities of Temporary Special and Temporary Commissions of Inquiry gives and regulates the work of these committees. Very many of the colleagues who had any commission worked there know that in their own time all the commissions ignored the reference to the fact that there was no Constitution of law. You and I lived under the law for six months -- from March to September -- until the Constitutional Court ruled this year we had a law signed by the Head of the Supreme Council, and I think that the members of the interim commission of inquiry knew how much he was helping them. That's why I'm proposing today without too much politicization. Regrettably, the Constitutional Court has found small points that it has used to propose to those who do not want this law. Let's now re-admit this law that we've already passed tens of times, and all the factions have voted, and we're going to send it to the President for signature. And we'll expect him to sign it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u74	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u75	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! Back in 98, I was making one of the laws that I passed, and then I was vetoing, and then I was doing it again. I remind you that there was a President Yushchenko sitting here, who, speaking out of place, said that this law should be passed, that it was absolutely necessary. I'll remind you of our debt to the Constitution since 96, clearly stated: The Supreme Council for the Investigation of Issues of Social Interest has formed temporary commissions of inquiry, if it has voted at least one third of the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Part 3 of Article 89]] Both the conclusions and the proposals of the interim commissions are not decisive for the investigation and the court.” These are conceptual things that we don't change and that don't change. What has been done by the Constitutional Court, which has recently been operating completely in the underground. Why the underground? Because he only makes decisions based on signatures. All of it. And the Constitution, the Constitutional Court Act, is totally ignored. There's no reaction to that. I would like the committees on legal policy, on justice, to consider these issues and ask the question of whether we have a usurpation of power in the Constitutional Court. The Rules of the Constitutional Court do not correspond to either the Constitution or the law. And now this law has been officially promulgated on the date of its first adoption: on January 15, 2009, not the re-examination of March 3, 2009, without the signature of the Supreme Council. That is, the Constitutional Court considered the law, not essentially, but by the procedure of adoption and taking effect. That's why today you can adopt this law, which is completely what we did: all three reads, the veto, everything worked. That is why it can and should be accepted in the first, in the second, in the third, and in the final. And it takes more than 300 votes for everyone to know who's in danger of chaos. Chaos won't happen. There will be order in Ukraine. Listen up, everybody!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u76	Tomenko Mikola Volodymyrovich from a faction that did not sign up for discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u77	Dear colleagues, I wanted to take two positions before the vote. First position. The need for such a document is confirmed by practice after the decision of the Constitutional Court. Now, I read in the press on a number of occasions the address of ministers and other officials who in principle refused to cooperate with our commissions, referring to the fact that, well, there is no law, so commission investigators don't mean anything. And starting with Kiev, ending the Olympic NSC and the other commissions to which I relate, in general, any contact, even paper, stopped at the level of the write-off. Clearly, then, such a law should be, and there should be an understanding of this problem. Instead, we need to understand the same thing, and how we are going to complete today's reports by the commission that the status of the commission at its new scale provides for a number of committees in the Supreme Council that would have weights that would not be of a political party nature, but that would have taken on such a problem that would have made it clear that we were solving it. Therefore, after the adoption of the law, it is obvious that officials should be put in place, and the status of the commission should be raised so that its weight in society is more orderly.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u78	The discussion is over. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the first reading of the draft Law on Temporary Inquiry Commissions, a special interim commission of inquiry and temporary special commissions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Registration number 5163]] I'd like to make a statement. [[11:20:31]] For 370. Decision taken. [[Applause]] During the discussion, a proposal was made on the possibility of adopting the draft law as a whole. Is there no objection? [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, National Deputy Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u79	Yuri Klukkowski, Our Ukraine. I listened carefully to the speakers who spoke here. And I have the impression that the new bill only applies to the question of the commission of inquiry. This is not the case, however, and there are special commissions. And I would like to remind you that there is a lot of, if you will excuse me, nonsense in regulating the activities of special commissions in that law. We have a chance to fix this nonsense. I plan to amend the regulation, not the investigators, but the special committees that deal with Parliament's legislative activities. Therefore, these adjustments need to be taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u80	Please, Efraemov Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u81	Respectable colleagues, except for delays in time, that will not lead to anything. We have considered very carefully on the Regulatory Committee all the amendments that have been made by all the people's deputies for each of them. And the fact that the regulatory committee voted unanimously, by consensus on the bill, and that representatives of all factions were present there, speaks for itself. Therefore, if we want to delay the adoption of this bill, of course, into the agreement of Yushchenko, let us do so if we want to adopt it, let us accept it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u82	Dear colleagues, I would ask that we continue to work in a calm and consensual manner. There is a proposal and a right for the people’s MP, with the rest to propose his amendments to the first reading of the law. And in fact, I have to say that there's something there to fix just that part of the work of special commissions that work on separate draft codes, important laws. I'll have that request. A request to a national MP, at least for the time being, for the time being, for one who has declared his wish, and for others who have a desire to exercise their right promptly. So that we can begin the following week with immediate approval of this law as a whole. Please, National Deputy Bodnar. Bodnar Olga Borisovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u83	Alexander Volodymyrovich, I have. Alexander Volodymyrovich, I have a meeting offer. We already have this kind of parliamentary practice when we can, if we want to, give a recommendation to the committee to hold a meeting today from second to fourth. From the second to the fourth, if there is one amendment there, we could look at it as a committee, and after lunch we could take it as a whole. We've already had this practice in Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u84	Please, People's Chamberlain.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u85	Dear colleagues, we have devoted almost all this week to the work of the commissions. And I am very pleased that many colleagues are truly committed to working on commissions, and it is the lack of a legislative field, the lack of tools and resources of the Commission that make it not effective. And this bill, it greatly promotes the Commission's resources. Therefore, understanding what the colleague is saying and proposing to move, I suggest to him that the former President's representatives in Parliament are not present, he can calmly contact the President and submit his proposals and then, if they are correct and I am sure that he will, we will vote them here as amended by the President.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u86	National Deputy Sas, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u87	Thank you. Dear colleagues! In the absence of this law in Parliament, there is a completely disincentived function, and one of the main functions of Parliament is control. And when we heard the reports of the committees yesterday and today, we understand what the work of these committees has become. I'd like to ask, Alexander Volodymyrovich, because we don't have the Rules for today, in the sense that we have them. I'm offering. Because all decisions are taken in Parliament by vote, I ask that Deputy Klukkowski be put to the vote on non-admission in the second reading and in general. If it is supported, then the second reading will be prepared by the committee, if not, then the Supreme Council will determine essentially and adopt the law as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u88	Thank you. Please, Deputy Kendzer.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u89	Jaroslav Kenzior, “For Ukraine!” Alexander Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! We know that we have formed when we say that we do not have the Rules today, but that we have formed a practice that, after the first reading, if there is at least one member of the proposal, we do not accept the Bill in the final version, it is passed on to the second reading, it is given to the deputies the appropriate time to process, to make their proposals. We have this tradition all the time, so let's stay in that position today. We have the next plenary week, as they say, on weekends, and we don't have to alarm here and insist on such adventures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u90	School of Andriy Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u91	Thank you. Alexander Volodymyrovich, I propose, if we talk about the traditions that have arisen, we have traditionally all such laws under the President's veto. And he's going to veto, there's already been a proposal for this, he's going to amend the ones recommended by the lawyers, and then we're going to look at them, and we're going to vote. Because right now we don't have the right to work here without regulations at all, and anyone else has the right to cancel the Supreme Court, and he can do so through the Constitutional Court. Please, I urge you, this is Alexander Volodymyrovich, here is not just an exception, it is necessary to put Mr. Klukkowski's proposal to the vote and accept it in the hall. If the hall supports the established tradition, it will be, if it doesn't support it, we will, in the first, in the second, and in the entire reading, adopt what we all need, here outside the politicians and factions, the entire Supreme Council of Law. I urge you to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u92	National MP Smytheuch, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u93	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, I have come to the impression that a very small part of the national MPs are deliberately delaying the consideration of this issue of the law on this issue. Because you know that the temporary commission of inquiry, which now operates and works in the Supreme Council with the participation of many deputies, is investigating a very important topic, including many issues relating to the financial and economic activities of some executive authorities. So I'm thinking that the non-admission of this law is deliberately going to make sure that these cases aren't high-pitched. Therefore, it is proposed to ask questions about the opposition of Klukkowski's deputy, and if the MPs support his proposal, then the second reading, if not, will be put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u94	Philenko Vladimir Pilipovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u95	Vladimir Filenko, "Club of Yulia Timoshenko", Party "Reforms and Orders". Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that “I don’t like what you’re saying, but I will give my life to have the right to say it.” I don't like the delay in adopting this law. But I wouldn't want it as badly as I do and many of those who are already trying to adopt this law on the third occasion, so that we can put it at risk once again because of formal procedures, because of accusing us of violating the minimum procedure. If we want to make adjustments, we have to agree. Although we don't like it. The only thing we need to do is to listen to the second reading tonight or tomorrow, but we have to agree. Although I don't like it very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u96	Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u97	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues! Clearly, now existing authorities are living out the last days. So she would like to take some moments into account that for at least 5 to 10 days, she's still going to be able to move away from the work of these committees. But let's get out of the way -- from the fact that my colleague Klukkowski agrees that he will be able to pass. And we, the profile committee, will do everything we can to see by Tuesday -- in two or three days, nothing will change. Come on, Alexander Volodymyrovich, let's now vote on the proposal to first consider this bill on Tuesday. And then there'll be much less problems, because, really, there will be vetoes, we'll look at the veto, we'll make amendments -- it's 10 to 15 days before the President comes back. We'll have to take it in the final edition on Tuesday. And if there's even the President's veto, beat it and speed it up. I don't see the tragedy of voting for it on Tuesday first.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u98	Dear colleagues! We actually have certain, let's say, formal legal problems in organizing Parliament's work. But we have an internal duty to listen to our colleagues and to make sure that we make the best possible quality documents and approve them in a way that is acceptable to Parliament. We can now make a decision with you if there is no objection that we should include the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the schedule on Tuesday, in the first half of the day. In the morning session, to be sure that we will consider this issue in our second reading, we will ask our colleagues quickly to make their proposals and ask the profile committee to consider everything carefully on Monday, to adopt a decision, and to have a comparative table for us to vote on in the morning. Do we agree with this approach? I'm putting this motion to a vote, please be sure. [[11:32:38]] For 353 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, in accordance with paragraph 15, part of the first article 27 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules of Procedure, two MP factions of the Yulia Timoshenko and Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense announced a recess. Please, I hear that there is no need for a recess, and there is a need for a statement from two factions, and it is proposed that the statement be made by the National MP, Zvaric. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u99	Thank you, Mr. Alexander! Dear colleagues, I'm authorized by two factions, in fact this is the position of the coalition of MP factions, to make the next proposal on which we're going to insist. We suggest that today's agenda should be moved to 5419, a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine, and that we consider this project now. The argument is very simple. Dear colleagues, we don't know who will be elected President of Ukraine, but if we want to, if you know, and I'm convinced that you know, because if you don't vote for this law, then you can really say that, you can talk about who will be President, because no matter how voters vote, you already know who will be President, because you'll know how to count the ballots. But, dear colleagues, consider the following. If you don't want the president to be a legitimate president, recognized by the world co-operation, you have to understand that we need to take note of certain observations, such as the Venice Commission. The bill before you is not everyone’s effort, but some remarks by the Venice Commission, which are still being seen in an observer mission such as the OSCE, such as the Council of Europe and others, must be adopted. So, Alexandre Volodymyrovich, we're formally making an offer to consider this bill now. I'd like you to put our proposal to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u100	Dear colleagues, on this point, I can say, of course, whether the Rules are valid today or not. Eventually, though, even what happened now took place on the basis of the Rules. The declaration and the declaration are in accordance with the Rules. And what you're suggesting is that we actually had this project distributed yesterday. Our current Rules also provide for a minimum term of a week, a minimum term of a week to read the document. This project is not included in the agenda of the day session. That's why he's on the agenda today, he is. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, one second, don't scream, please. So we have it in the chapter for today, in the agenda for inclusion in the agenda of the day’s session, and in the decision - making process. By voting, we saw him on the schedule for the fourth session, for today in the same section that was just mentioned, just like the laws that we were considering before this -- the temporary special investigators commission. So, with your permission, I will continue my work according to our approved schedule. And we're not going to create right now, and we're not going to create a resistance here, because in this case, it's not an offer that's supported by all of the halls. [[B in m in s a l in]] The rules, in this case, why we didn't put the motion to a vote as soon as we went when there was no objection, whether acceptance as a whole, or the movement on a schedule that had been approved for a week. When there was consensus. If there are two factions, please excuse us, we have voted. They put it on the schedule. We're going to get to this chapter and we're going to look at this bill, and we're going to put it in the order of the day session. The report of the Interim Special Commission on Reforming the Ukrainian Security Service and its legislative provisions is under review. Reported to the commission’s head, Skibinetsky Alexander Matviyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u101	Honorable national MPs, as well as respected Ukrainian security officers, who may be listening and seeing us. National deputies are familiar with the text of the report and the proposed draft decision. So I'd like to draw attention in my speech from the rostrum to just the hottest, in the opinion of the board members, problems of reforming the BSS. And I would like to point out right away that all the factions are represented on the committee, and the work was done without any political involvement, and all the decisions taken by the committee by consensus. I'd like to get into trouble. First problem. This is the problem of turning the Ukrainian Security Service into a modern service of a democratic state. What does this involve? First of all, it's demilitarization. The other one. It's under control, accountability to civil society, first of all, parliamentary control. And the third one is the main one. This is a strengthening of the principle, not of the state over citizens, but of the state, but of the State in the person of the Security Service, in this case, to protect the rights of citizens and the interests of the state. It is these transformations that are envisioned by the concept of reform of the Security Service, which is approved by the Council of National Security and Defence and implemented by the President's decree. And this was also taken into account by the commission in its work. At the same time, the National Security and Defence Council and President of Ukraine's decrees, the Concept and the Security Service reform programme are tasked with transforming it into essentially a counter-investigative body without law enforcement functions. The commission considers this premature. According to the existing Constitution, article 17, only law enforcement and military formations can protect state security. The investigation of crimes against the foundations of national security is now without anyone to reform the system as a whole. In addition, in today’s world, there is a search for forms of closer coordination between special services and so - called police, or law enforcement agencies, to respond effectively to today’s threats, such as terrorism, the proliferation of weapons, and others. And we have an integrated Ukrainian Security Service system that is hardly meant to be destroyed today. Another problem. Indeed, the task of the Security Service needs to be clarified today, especially in the area of combating economic crime and combating corruption. There is a need to move away from the generalization of tasks, as is the case today in the current law, to specific issues of counter-intelligence protection of the energy, financial and banking spheres, state information resources, military and technical cooperation, counter-intelligence of computer crime, special information operations and the influence of foreign intelligence services, to focus efforts on countering corruption in public authorities and authorities authorized to fight corruption. The third problem, and in the eyes of the committee, is the worst. And I have a commission not only from the commission but also from those present in the Chamber of Deputies who in due course made great efforts to create and establish the Security Service. I have a mandate to express deep concern about personnel policy in the Security Service. It is not normal to be assigned to managerial positions in the ministry, not as professional qualities, but as evidence of personal devotion or political relevance, as we have seen in recent years. To what effect, we have seen an example of investigations into offences committed by individuals who, without due process, merely by virtue of the will of the highest official in the State, were assigned to the positions of deputy heads of the service. As a result of the absence of consistent human resources policies, consistent training policies, and management training, the operational structure today is not even able to remember the names of its managers that change every few months. This leads to the demoralization of the individual composition, the degradation of the structure, which is central to the security of the state. It is possible to put an end to these phenomena, according to the commission, first by increasing the influence of the legislative branch in the area of staff security of the BSS. There is no doubt that the Supreme Council should strengthen its control over the activities of the Security Service in human resources policy. Consider the introduction of a professional price for applicants in positions of service and substitutes, as well as the right of a professional parliamentary committee to express its opinion for consideration or disregard when deciding on the question of the appointment of candidates for management positions in the service. In doing so, increase the level of publicity and, above all, the responsibilities in these matters. Another problem the commission would like to point out. These are the consequences of the disintegration of the Security Service. We isolated and legislated the separations from the Security Service of the External Intelligence Service, the Department of State Security, the State Service of Special Liaison. And it caused a lot of problems. And with regard to the interaction in ensuring Ukrainian foreign representations, in the use of human resources, in defining areas of operational and law enforcement responsibility. In the distribution of the only integrated property complexes, buildings, or floors in buildings. Not to mention the creation of in-depth security units, state enlargements, the increase in general positions, the introduction of award-winning calibres, and the total budget load. It's a question. In the name of what do we do all of this? What tasks do we solve? More during the crisis period. Is it not time to think about a return to common sense, rather than copying a design that is designed to damage the real meaning? This topic requires further study by the commission. Therefore, the Commission proposes to solve the problems identified by adopting and approving a new version of the Ukrainian Security Service Act. Such a project is approved by the commission and presented for first reading. Therefore, we invite the Supreme Council, ask the Supreme Council to accept the report of the temporary special commission to be known and to authorize it to continue its work for six months for the drafting of the Law on BMS of 16 July 2009 to be carried out through the second reading and amendment of the existing laws of Ukraine relating to the adoption of this law and to settle existing issues in the activities of the Security Service. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u102	Question, please, to the reporter. Bondarenko Volodymyr Dmitrovic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u103	Vladimir Bondarenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear Alexander Matviyovich, yesterday in my speech, I raised the question that the commissions that are formed by the Supreme Council, when they come up with apparent violations of Ukrainian legislation or the Constitution of Ukraine, should not be limited to this subject of knowledge that they have been given, but should at least make some special reference to those bodies that may correct the violations that have emerged. I gave examples of the specific activities of the deputy director of the service of Mrs. I also pointed out that, until now, it is still unclear that Mr. Kislinsky has been admitted to work, on what grounds, who examined his personnel affairs. You know, in order to get into the service, there are bones and those that have long died, and here, it turns out that one can get there. I also drew attention to the active construction work of the Ukrainian Security Service in Kiev, including the construction of an academy to prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u104	Please finish the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u105	She should really be preparing her personnel, not her land to use the plots that got there. It all needs extra. So I support your opinion about continuing the work of the commission, but not just limiting myself to reform, because it's the things that I'm talking about and leading to the fact that the service is not effective today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u106	Thank you, Volodymyr Dmitrievich for asking. I agree that there are many problems in the work of the service, first of all human resources problems. And these issues need to be addressed specifically, specifically, so that the conclusions that will be made are objective, not “soon - reaching, ” as it were. The subject of our commission's knowledge, you know, was the area of legal certainty. So we didn't have the opportunity and the real time to get involved in the investigation. If we continue to work for six months, I think we can take some of the questions that you're raising, also to the knowledge and consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u107	School of Andriy Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u108	Thank you. Well, I'd like to continue with a few questions of a colleague. I understand, of course, that you didn't own or have been given investigative functions, but, nevertheless, when we're talking about legal security, let's go through legal security, that is, through the law that you're proposing, we're going to close those holes that made it possible to infiltrate a sufficiently high-level human being without a diploma, for example, right, acidic? Justifies the need to be a substitute for Mr. Horoshkowski. What I would like to know is, what is motivated by the depoliticization, the deportation, or the demilitarization of the service? I mean, I don't understand these assignments. I mean, I would like to make it clear that the Security Service isn't and can't be, legislatively at least if it's owned by the President. He should not handle this as his personal protection. And there's someone who's wronged himself in the Secretariat, who's going to be assigned to the Security Service, or who's out there somewhere else, who's going to be assigned to the Security Service again. So I'd like the law you're proposing to have a clear ban on such actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u109	Thank you for asking. Indeed, in law these problems, the solutions to these issues are foreordained, you can get to know them. In particular, I can only mention the fact that we're introducing a professional price called head of the service, that's 10 years of experience in the field of national security. This is not necessarily in the Security Service but in the area of national security. We propose to introduce a seven-year professional award for deputy heads of the Security Service and five years for the heads of the regional authorities. So, in our view, this would allow us to rule out such cases when simply for the sake of someone else’s enigma, we are assigned to high positions unprepared for this. And I'm sure and I don't want to be like that, you know, the oracle, but I think we're going to have some surprises in the future with a staff assignment that have already taken place, unfortunately, in the service.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u110	Zibenko Peter Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u111	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. My dear reporter, I don't have a question, but rather a position, because in recent times the Ukrainian Security Service has become increasingly a subject of parliamentary attention, and this is absolutely legitimate. Sadly, the Service has become a danger service for Ukraine. Indeed, there is a need to reform the ministry, since it is increasingly becoming an authority of political persecution, doing whatever it takes, not just what is required by law, but by Ukraine’s security. So I support the commission's intention to introduce a bill, and this process really needs to be completed by amending existing legislation in that part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u112	Thank you, I also share your position.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u113	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u114	Yuri Carmazin. I have three short questions. Do you not think that today's practice of assigning orders from the President of Ukraine to the heads of regional administrations is a violation of the law, the Constitution is the Basic Law, and today the country is dangerous in view of the situation in the country, and that the law, including the novels you are talking about, should be adopted urgently. Just urgent, before the election. The other one. Do you know, and do you know on the committee that acidsky was released at his own request, it turns out not because he faked it, not because he gave false information about education and so forth, but because he wanted to. And this disgrace is already upon our day’s leadership. And don't you think that, in addition to the censorship that you said, you have to write down a different price, because it's obviously abnormal when young boys are now assigned to command the colonels, who were not in command of anyone, nothing, anywhere, just their dad, mom, and so on, they're the pools, the merchants or whatever.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u115	Thank you. I can, starting with the last question, absolutely agree with you that there should be no such practice because there is an appropriate admission procedure for the Ukrainian Security Service. It provides for testing, so to speak, in professional, business-related qualities on what they can do, these people can fit in to work in the service, as well as in terms of their psychological resilience and other issues. Therefore, it is not possible to assign literally the people whom someone wants to appoint from the street. So far it's in control, but we need to change that with you, after changing the law first, I agree. Second of all, acidic. Although acid and liberated by the President's decree and at his own request, according to the report, but as far as I know, his violations, the offences he committed, are being investigated by the police. That's another question, but from a legal point of view, there's an investigation. And the fact that the acidic was unlawfully admitted to the Security Service against all laws is obvious in itself. And I'll tell you about the orders. Formally I can't see, formally we can't see.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u116	Dear Yuri Anatolyevich, I understand you've had an interesting dialogue at some point, haven't you? I think we're going to go over the report now, and you're going to hear more thoughts about the consequences of the commission's work. Thank you. Please have a seat. Please sign up for the discussion. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u117	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, our citizens of Ukraine. The question that is being discussed is extremely important in view of the events that have taken place. Think to yourself that today, once the purest organ itself, suddenly received a man who does not have a diploma at all, on the basis of the President’s decree. I told you and told you when one of the options of the Ukrainian Security Service Act was being considered and successfully failed, which is contrary to the current Ukrainian Constitution, the right of the President of Ukraine to appoint district heads. On what basis? Why are we politicizing this process? That's why I'm saying that even before the presidential election, whoever the President is, this right is too dangerous, it's unconstitutional. Let's make some changes so that it doesn't happen and there's no conditions for the new oxygens. I did not in vain ask about this person, perhaps not to be mentioned. But the question is that the Security Service asked the question and called for his release at his own request, not for other reasons to stop the public service. The State Service Act, where he was, provided for the cessation of general public service and the elimination of rank, second rank, i.e. Lieutenant General. And so today we have a Lieutenant General without a diploma, that's why. But by whom? Thanks to those who covered it. So all of this in the law now has to be foreseen, that's the first. Secondly, I am absolutely against what is happening today, and this is what we have in the law to predict that it is not possible to become a manager of a man who has not previously been a manager for at least three years or five years. It's insane again, that today's back money and so on are assigned for one purpose, it's assigned, and it says, "I smoke land issues either in the Kyiv region or somewhere else." That's why this is happening today. And I want you to know here that prices suddenly, when they asked about the Henprosecution, prices started to fall from the 20 hectares that in Desert Water, from $30,000 to $28 per hundred. What, did we have one service here or someone else? Nobody. It is therefore necessary to continue the work of the commission, but it must be made mandatory to give the law, a consistent text of a law that would provide that such abuse of service cannot occur. First. And the second. Whatever the role and promotion of parliamentary control. The CIA can't get a new title without Parliament's consent. What's going on? I am.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u118	Pavlovsky Andry Mikhailovich. Turn on the microphone from the people's seat.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, I support the reporter and our current colleague, Mr. Carmazin, who really needs to be put in order by the State's most important special organs, such as the Security Service. So that there are actually professionals and patriots of the state who have experience who have a proper service there for at least five years with the right to hold responsible positions. Otherwise, such a serious service is transformed into a private security firm. Or, for example, “Rosukreenergo”, when there were events with “Naftogaza”, turned into a private firm called Mr. Firtash. The BSB is a state structure. It's a shame. Or, for example, this is done as a delicacy, for those who need to hide from the officials of the President's Secretariat and temporarily settle down like Mr. Acidsky and others. I don't think we should let that happen. Indeed, an example of the CIA was cited when the leaders agreed with the Parliament of this structure. I think we'll get to that in due course. And we need to set the order. And at the legislative level, at the legislative level, so that we can secure ourselves from subjective different factors that the President or someone might be outstanding, but this is the Ukrainian Security Service, but not the President. Let's count this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u120	The discussion is over. Dear colleagues! People's deputies, members of the commission have put forward a draft decree concerning the commission's work. The draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the report of the Interim Special Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the reform of the Ukrainian Security Service and its legislative provisions is based on the vote. [[Registration number 4714]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:59:59]] For 353 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! Whether or not there are any suggestions for this project, which is made by the people’s deputies, by the members of the commission. You don't? Can we vote in general? I am voting on the entire draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Resolution on the report of the Interim Special Commission of the Supreme Council on the reform of the Ukrainian Security Service and its legislative security. [[Registration number 4714]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:00:41]] For three hundred Decision taken. Dear colleagues! After the break, the report of the Provisional Investigation Commission will be followed up to verify compliance with Ukrainian legislation during the reconstruction of the National Sports Complex “Olympic”. Ravil Safovich Safiullin will report. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 31 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u121	Let's get back to work. The report of the Provisional Investigation Commission for the verification and enforcement of Ukraine's legislation in the reconstruction of the National Sports Complex “Olympic” is being submitted for consideration. Reported to the head of the interim commission of inquiry, Safiullin Ravil Safovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u122	Dear Alexander Vladimirović, distinguished people's deputies, the Provisional Commission of Inquiry for the Verification of Law in the Reconstruction of the National Olympic Complex was established by the Supreme Council on 19 May 2009 in accordance with a Supreme Council decision. The Commission conducted its investigation, examined the situation of reconstruction at the Olympic NCC in the light of the successful implementation of the project within the time frame established by UEFA, which would provide an opportunity to inhale the second life in the central sports arena of the country, preserve the historical significance of this monumental facility for descendants and successfully hold the 2012 European Championship final on football. Throughout the work of the Commission, 534 documents, laws, acts of the President, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, other materials of ministries and departments, which are set out on more than 6,000 pages. In addition, six Commission meetings were held and a number of issues were raised at one of them with the participation of specialists, experts and representatives of organizations directly related to the reconstruction at the Olympic NCC. The following was established during the Commission's work. In 2008, 247.4 million grivens were allocated from the budget to the Olympic University for reconstruction, which were spent on dismantling work, the preparation of baseline data for design, the payment of advances to the general designer and the general contractor. In 2009, it is expected to provide 1 billion grevens, of which 600 million grevens have already been received by the Olympics in the UK. Thus, some 850 million grevens have already been released from Ukraine's state budget for the reconstruction of the stadium and at the Olympic NCC. On 11 December this year, UEFA decided to leave Kiev, Donetsk, Lviv and Harkov to host Euro-2012 matches. It is not only a great honour for our country but also a great responsibility. We have a unique opportunity to build our Euro-2012 cities, to build roads, hotels, stadiums, airports and, above all, to provide our citizens with jobs, to return to their homes and families. Following such a decision, UEFA's top actions clearly warned Ukrainian officials against complacency and excessive relaxation. UEFA will continue monitoring for preparations. If the time frame for the preparation of the facilities or the standards are not met, UEFA may revoke the right to Euro-2012 from any Ukrainian city. This suggests that doubts are still being raised by the leader of the European Football Association and, I think, he has substantial grounds for doing so, as the conclusions of our commission on the timing of the reconstruction of the country's main arena, the Olympics, of the supposed Euro-2012 final. In view of the limited time, I will focus on the key facts identified during the Commission's work, namely, the country still does not know the total cost of the reconstruction of the Olympic NCC. I recall that initially the total cost of rebuilding the stadium was 1.5 billion bracelets. The company, which in its time guaranteed the construction of the stadium for this amount, had been denied a reconstruction project. Subsequently, the total estimated value increased to 2.1 billion bracelets. The Government has listened to the Commission's view and has not gone to an unjustified increase in funding for the Olympic reconstruction, which has not resulted in the total cost of work rising to 3.2 billion grevens. According to Minister Pavlenko Jurija Alekseevich, this amount is not yet final. In this connection, the members of the Commission agree on the conduct of an appropriate comprehensive State evaluation of the project as soon as possible and with the appropriate approval of the entire project documentation for the reconstruction of the Olympic NCC. The most important factor in meeting Ukraine's commitments to UEFA to prepare and implement the Euro is strict compliance with the construction and installation of the stadium. On 2 September 2006, a project contract was concluded with the German company Hohtif and its partner, GMP, which, as recommended, has relevant international experience in the design and construction of accompanying infrastructure stadiums. The signature of this treaty was agreed with the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine. Hochtif, together with the architectural bureau, prepared the materials necessary to win Ukraine's bid for the final part of Euro-12 in Cardiff. On 19 November 2007, the issue of training and reconstruction was considered in Kabmin and on the Olympic Monitoring Board of the NCC, where a project developed by Hohtif was approved and it was decided to entrust further design for the reconstruction of NCC to him. The Interdepartmental Commission on Public Procurement established the possibility of signing a contract with Hohtif, in turn, Hohtif provided a timetable for the work related to the reconstruction of the Olympic NCC and, according to this schedule, all the work documentation for construction was planned in the first quarter of 2009 and the entire set of construction and installation works would be carried out by June 2010. But as a result of the unprofessional and unthinkable decision of the Ministry under the leadership of Yuri Alexeevich Pavlenko, an international architectural competition was declared, which resulted in a failure with the winner of the Taiwanese Archaic Design company and, consequently, a prolonged competition with the choice of the general designer, resulting in a delay of 10 months and a loss of valuable time, a change in the construction time and an increase in the project itself, I repeat, a project of 108 million bracelets. I would like to emphasize that all the actions of the Ministry aimed at finding a suitable Olympic Designer for the reconstruction of the NCC have led to a return to the architectural ideas of the same project bureau, but indeed 10 months later. In addition, I believe it is necessary to elaborate on the implementation of the construction schedule. The minister in many interviews assures us that everything is perfect, everything is planned, that you will not call it a lie. According to the timetable submitted to the Commission for the construction and installation of the stadium, there has been a breach of construction time of more than 3 months, which could lead to a disruption of the stadium's time frame. On the other hand, experts sent by the parliamentary commission were simply not admitted to the stadium. The members of the commission concluded that it was the result of a short-sighted policy of the Ministry, which effectively removed the monitoring board of the NCC, which consisted of: the President of the National Olympic Committee of Ukraine, Bubka Sergey Nazarović, our colleagues, the President of the Paralympic Committee, Deputy Suškević, the People's MP, the Olympic Champion, Tedeyev and Ivananko. Its function, it is the commission, it has become an interdepartmental working group, the leader remains the same, Deputy Prime Minister Vasyunik, but it has changed its composition, which has not even one or two representatives of the Football Federation of Ukraine and Kievstroy. It is not surprising, therefore, that Kievhurstru was subsequently designated as the General Contractor. The members of the Commission drew attention to the fact that only during the work of the Commission at the Olympic NCC, five acting Directors were appointed alternately by the Olympic Ministry, leading to a full balance between the organizational structure of the enterprise, whose main function is to monitor the performance of the stadium's reconstruction work. One of them, Mr. Chernavsky had three passports: Croatia, Russia, Ukraine, which was well known to our minister. This situation has had a negative impact on the functioning of the Olympic Tender Committee of the NCC, which has led to serious violations of financial discipline, which have led to the misappropriation of budgetary resources. All these facts have been confirmed in the report provided to you, whose further investigation is confident to be the subject of the work of the relevant law enforcement authorities. Unprofessionally organized by the Ministry of Family Affairs and Youth Control of the stadium's reconstruction project, the situation is that there is virtually no cumulative estimate of the cost of construction resulting in the impossibility of determining the annual procurement plan and, consequently, the uncontrolled conclusion of contracts with contractors. On the basis of the documents provided by the Commission to the Olympic Commission as a requisitioner, the Olympic Commission has concluded contracts with contractors for a total amount of more than 1.9 billion rubies, which, provided no approved estimate is a gross violation of budgetary legislation and the non-earmarked use of budgetary resources. In this context, the situation with the participation of foreign consultants, who have committed themselves to providing advisory services, is very good. The main functions assigned to the consultants already fall under the responsibility of the general designer, which is indisputable in the relevant paragraphs of the contract with the general designer. The members of the commission agreed that the third party's presence in the reconstruction process was not effective and responsible. The Ministry of the Family and Youth Affairs of Ukraine needs to pay attention to better performance of the functions of the client by the structural units of the Olympic NCC than to spend considerable budgetary resources on the services of consultants of foreign origin. As a matter of fact, the cost of providing services is more than 15 billion. millions of grevens. An even clearer example of uncontrolled contract signing is the use of budgetary resources with the GM, according to which the contract is in operation for 6 days for 2 million Euros, which are ultimately implemented in one day and the amount is listed. Of particular concern to the members of the commission was the selection of the contractor for the installation of the gallows over the stadium, which according to the projector's data weighs.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u123	Yes, please finish. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u124	8.5,000 tons and is the main component of the reconstruction of the Olympic NCC requires the maximum responsibility of professionalism in the assembly work. These work should have started on 3 August. The winner of this tender was chosen by a company unknown to the Master Profi from the city of Dnepropetrovska, which has absolutely no experience of such constructions, as our ministry has warned on many occasions, the general designer warned. Nothing's gone wrong, it's still company. She just doesn't know what to do. And so far, it's been December, and four months have had to start, but it's not progressing in any way. And all their demands of the general designer by our ministry, the football federation, are completely ignored by the general contractor. And they're all silent. But really, it's a bigger problem! The situation, as the general designer says, is indeed critical. At the same time, hospitality activities are currently under way. A total of 45,000 square metres are allocated for the determination of the zone, thus the tennis court, which is located in that area, is completely unwarranted. At the same time, there is even a landing ground for a single football match, I mean, the final of which is estimated at 200,000 bracelets. Such shortcomings can be listed in many ways. But it's all closed for unfathomable reasons. I've got everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u125	Please ask the reporter. Let's sign up. Makinko Vladimir Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u126	Please pass the word to Koloca.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u127	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Respectable Ravil Safovic, according to the commission's investigation, has identified numerous violations during the reconstruction of the Olympic Stadium, including financial ones. While monitoring and monitoring the progress of such work in the State includes relevant supervisory bodies such as the CPR, Goss experts and others. Please answer the question. Where are they looking and why are the checks not carried out and the perpetrators not punished? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u128	Thank you for asking. I'll answer you as follows. The commission was subject to an act of verification by the Kiev City Audit Office, which was carried out within a period of one and a half months by four staff members. So this commission, I don't know what they were doing on this site, which at that time had already won 700 million grivens. They found, listen, they found overruns of 85 litres of petrol and they didn't find two tape recorders worth 1,600 bracelets. This is what the Audit and Audit Office found within a month and a half. If they were to contact our commission, we would tell them where and what to look for. We have very often here in this room the question of where to find funds in particular to combat the influenza epidemic and so on. I think if the C.R.I. got it right, there'd be plenty of money on that facility to pay off this epidemic. If you're talking about the Holdboud expert, I'll tell you that. In principle, I met with Vladimir Fedorovich Ampilogov as well as the members of the commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u129	Ravil Safovich, please, be more concise, because the time is running out.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u130	The offer to make, but only, as they did, did he say that I didn't want the theft to take place here. He was no longer in charge of this examination. I was set up completely different. And that's what happens at all stages.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u131	Pavlovsky Andry Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u132	The press reported that 2 billion 100 million U.S. dollars worth of work reported in the Olympics. And there was also a report that 853 million work seems to have already been done. Well, interesting is your opinion as an expert, what is the real value of these jobs, and how soon will the stadium be built? And what was the fate of those buildings near the stadium that UEFA had to endure long ago? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u133	So the original cost of the stadium was planned for one and a half billion grevens and two Hohtiv companies, and then a separate company that won an architectural competition, Archasia Design, they promised to do all the work during the period until June 2010 for the sum of one and a half billion grevens. But our ministry and everyone around them didn't do it. And I told you that the figure of 2.1 billion, then came up with a figure of 3.2 billion. To date, the Minister does not know what the figure will be. So they're already saying, maybe even more than four billion. That's what we have here. At a time when Poland, which has won with us and also builds stadiums, has reduced its total value. That's understandable to everyone. To date, all the materials have fallen. The wages have not grown at all. We've got something completely different going on. Where they're looking, frankly, the controlling organs, well, I don't understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u134	Pierre Viacheslav Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u135	Please, pass the word to Tomenko Nikolai.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u136	Tomenko Mikola Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u137	Dear Ravil Safovich, I would like to point out that we have good news from the work of the commission of inquiry and those deputies who joined her work. It is likely that over a six - year period, the ministry has submitted to government meetings prepared documents for an increase of nearly a billion dollars. And under the influence of serious criticism and serious arguments of the deputy corps, such as the commission of inquiry, and the Prime Minister, the government and the government have decided not to increase this billion, but to continue to control and watch how these 2 billion use it. That's why it's like I've welcomed a commission that's already saved over a billion dollars. And I have a question. Now, I get the impression that this key strategy of work there is how it will help UEFA officials and sponsors, because all the money goes to hospitality zones, well, helicopters, maybe there will be women there to meet these officials and accompany them all the way to the championship. And as I understand it, the NCC is built for the sick and for the preservation of sports infrastructure. Is it possible for the Ministry to set it up because of the work of your commission that you need to pay attention not to sponsors or officials, but to sports infrastructure?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u138	I'll answer as follows. The thing is, you know, all the work done there by the Ministry of the Olympic Ministry at the Olympic Ministry is going undercover, well, we've never seen UEFA's proposals. They say it's a guest area. At first it was 25,000 square meters, then 36, then 45,000 square meters. But the UEFA documents with the requirements for these areas, where the actual number would actually be shown, are not complete, 45 or any other. One match, I've already told you, the final of the Olympics NSC, the hospitality zones are precisely for this match. Why is there a helipad? The cost of the project is just a helipad area of 200,000 bracelets. The tennis courts are laid down, the tennis courts are laid down, although there is a wide open area, a territory that can be built and used as guest areas. But it's all going on, I say again, it's a UEFA requirement and so on, and it's something that no one's ever seen.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u139	Blackmore Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u140	Dear Ravil Safovich, we are all certainly concerned about the timely introduction of the Olympics and should therefore not only cover their shortcomings but also examine their causes. You said that the commission found actual backlogs in the construction and installation of the stadium. I would like to know what you think the reason is, or is it a project so imperfect, or is it a lack of customer control, or is it a low qualification of a general contractor? Why don't you tell me why?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u141	You know, I have the impression, like the members of the commission, that it is necessary to frame their people to do certain kinds of work in full understanding of that word. The issue was that a tender was held for a noose over the Olympic NCC. Well, it's the most complex structure in the entire complex of this stadium. Foreign companies were involved in the tender, which already had relevant experience in the construction of such structures. They ignored all their claims, they chose a company that, you know, a company, so it has a charter fund of 7,000 grevens, a loan debt of 8.2 million, a receivable of 1.6. [[5 times]] This company was appointed as an employee. She's sending papers all over the place today asking them to help them build this shed, you know? And we, the commission, as the chairman of the commission, come from the participants in this tender, foreign companies petitions to be dealt with, because they have been thrown out of the tender for unreasonable reasons, and that is indeed the case.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u142	Yuri Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u143	You've been very curious about the outside counseling. We all know that the best way to get money into shadow or theft is to use consultants and get some kind of advice on cloud paint. Do you have any information on what these consultants have done and what amount of money has been spent on them, and do you think these work is justified or not justified?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u144	So from day one, the Ministry has been trying hard to move foreign consultants, here. While in a contract with the general designer, G.M.P., it is a separate point that all consultative issues are taken over, indeed. And they build according to the requirements of UEFA because it's not the first object of this kind. But with perseverance, worthy, you know, different uses the Ministry has pushed. A tender was held, and two consultants were identified – one English company, one Finnish company. To date, I think if we're going to have our services, here's Deputy Minister Durres Sergey Vasilevich, who's been pushing these companies in particular. But I'll tell you what, Sergey Vasilevich, that the services will check, and I'll tell you that this is the English company that was reporting, the reports were written by our citizens in Kiev. There are 15 million bracelets. That's it. It's really a complete understanding of what you're saying.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u145	School of Andriy Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u146	Thank you. Dear reporter, I also have a question, which has already been a matter of delay. It's you. So, please tell me, when will it really be introduced, in your opinion, the "Olympic" NCC? When, really, at such a pace that they are now following? And what you can do to get into the graphs and. The second story is what you can do to really reduce your worth. I'm very supportive. In Poland, the cost goes down, I know the situation that's going on there, and I'm interested in how we can influence this process, because I agree that everything is going to be at the cheapest offer that tenders are going to win, but I also support the position that experts are going to win. So not the one who does the most at the slightest cost, they think, and this is supposed to be the expert tendering commission, so that tenders win the structures that give quality production at the world level, but at the right time and at the right cost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u147	I want to tell you that. You speak correctly of tender committees, he has been replaced. I'll tell you what. To date, the Director-General of NSC, the Olympic Contractor, is a graduate. The representative of Kievström. The Deputy Minister here is a representative of Kievstroy, the general contractor, as well as Kievhurstrow. That's all they need. According to the Ministry, the installation of this facility is the 11th year, but in particular the semi-trailer, the most complex structure, to date, is four months behind. And if this continues, we can really lose ourselves if no action is taken. And change the situation. I think so, especially the Government, the deputies and so on. And control has to be tougher because it's actually the interviews the minister is giving, they're totally not responding to reality. He's walking, he's just smoothing the concrete, and he says he's not even in the world today, that's the best concrete. And I'll tell you what, the second verse, the restoration of which was held on 30.09 to date, has not been adopted. [[The second pole!]] [[in September]] Defected act drafted
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u148	Thank you, Ravil Safovich. Have a seat, please. Is there a need to discuss? Let's sign up, please. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u149	Ladies and gentlemen, many years ago, I asked the question that we should be preparing early for Euro-2012 to save our complex at the stadium. But what I saw in the inquiry report now exceeded all my expectations. I mean, there's been no such abuse for a long time, and that's the worst. I understand why Ukraine is then considered a corrupt state. Because the things that have been recorded and spoken from this rostrum are simply not supposed to be in a normal state. And that's why we need to urgently pass the law on MPs, special commissions. And so that, with the existence of this law, this commission can continue its work. Because in parallel with this commission, the Attorney General's Office is supposed to report, because I can name hundreds of examples, when some representatives of the audit offices go out to a two-month-long manipulated enterprise, and somehow we don't have enough time for anything. So I see a threat that exists to you. Not just for state funds, I see a threat to the image of Ukraine. So I'm going from this rostrum to the Prime Minister, who's done so much to make it happen. Julia Volodymyrna has done a lot to make it possible to build, to do everything, to look at this government report, to consider how to evaluate it, so that it doesn't have to be of an unsuspecting, chaotic destructive and unprofessional nature, as noted here, to see that the laws that have already been broken are laws for the protection of cultural heritage, for architectural activity. I absolutely don't think it's necessary to create such conditions after the VIP-person meeting that instead of the active objects we do helicopters on the ground in the center of Kiev, this marzam is called, otherwise it's not called, absolutely. We're a state that's supposed to take care of its own independent position and we need to argue with UEFA if they're giving such stupid instructions and if they need to be evacuated, then believe me, you can sit down on a tennis court for any helicopter, and you don't have to say it here. It's possible and it's happening in many cases, it's just not going to steal another half billion of everything. Because 200 million for design and 300 for construction, that's all that's going to be done. But I'm thinking about one thing, maybe we're going to have to adopt a special law on the construction of this complex, maybe. I'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u150	Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u151	Respectable Alexander Vladimirovic, respected colleagues, gave an objective analysis of the work of the Olympic TSC commission, but everyone is said to be familiar with the comparison. You see, in Donetsk, they started building a stadium with no money, no government intervention. We must pay tribute to Renata Ahmetov, as a football metenata, as a brilliant manager who has built the most beautiful stadium in the world, infrastructure around the stadium. It's really a real football colosseum that Ukraine can be proud of. And Ukraine has shown that it can implement large-scale projects at the world level and has made a significant contribution to Euro-12. In fact, the stadium was also built in Kharikow, it is important to pay tribute to the football mecenata Jaroslavsky, the lion's share of the money, the State added a little bit, he invested the soul – the stadium was built. In Kiev, the government has a stadium at zero, and crazy money has been allocated. The government is in charge, the tractor year in the stadium has not been able to understand the main, and who will be able to get the money and who will be taking the money, whose hands the money will stick to, who will take the commission. And so far, nothing has been done, yes. In Donetsk, you will see to it that the government builds the government, and in Kharikowa builds the government. We wouldn't have stadiums, and we didn't have Euro-12. Therefore, I would like to thank the football metenatas: Renata Ahmetov, Jaroslavski. For objectivity's sake, I'd like to say thank you to the Cologne. He also built a stadium in Dnepre, and unfortunately Dnepropetrovsk did not fall into the cities that run the Euro-12. Now let's go upstairs. After all, the government doesn't just have a football stadium in Kiev, it builds an economy. This is how the football stadium in Kiev is built by the government. And if it did not interfere, and if it did not exist at all, we may not have what the crisis had or had long since come out of that crisis. But I think it'll be over soon. There's little left to suffer, there's a month to come, an election to go, the government to go. There will be a new President Yanukovic. We will deliver the Olympic NSC. And we're not just going to build shiny sports arenas in Ukraine, we're going to build factories, factories. And we will certainly build a powerful, prosperous Ukraine, but without this orange power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u152	Tobaccoer Jacob Phinehas. None. Please, Tomenko Mikola Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u153	Dear colleagues, I, the only one, asked us if we wanted to do a good job of not reading these party pioneer words, but let us take a real look and take a look at the report of the commission of inquiry, which acted, I believe, not from a party point of view, but from the point of view of national interests. And if we want to deal with this object, let us act from the point of view of national interests rather than read election slogans. I'm convinced that we need to divide two positions very clearly here. The first position is that the government delegated authority to the Ministry, delegated authority to the relevant officials, who, to my deep conviction, failed to carry out the task set by the government, and acted completely unprofessionally. Ravil Safovich did not say, he said of the oversight body, but the oversight body had never met. So basically, surveillance functions don't work here. That is why I believe that when we are currently discussing the future of the commission of inquiry, I would think that the commission of inquiry had to act as a kind of parliamentary oversight, because in this way there is government assistance, so there are hundreds of objects other than the Olympics, and it is clear that the government cannot deal with this every day at the meeting. Another thesis. We need to redefine the strategic position, why did we fight for the Euro? If we have fought for the Euro to boost the country's economy in order to build its infrastructure, in order to create a positive image of Ukraine, we need to do so. And if it turns out that we were fighting to get a few people to do commercials, and to build two football stadiums at public expense, which, I don't know, who would do them afterwards. And by Lviv, tell me, after we've built the stadium, who's going to hold it, who's going to be responsible for it? Both Kiev and Lviv had to make football clubs without football stadiums. And the state would only help. In Kiev, three football clubs and two have no stadiums. “Lives” is FK, there is no stadium. That's why there was a strategic error here, because building stadiums on the budget is a strategic mistake. But if we go this way, we need to control and think about how to proceed. Once again, the absurdity of the approach, when the whole country goes around two UEFA officials, has to be stopped. You can't make money from Ukraine, I watched Portugal prepare, I watched Switzerland, Austria. We have to convince UEFA that for Ukraine we will go this way, and they will agree that they will not go anywhere. We're fighting for having the world's largest hospitality zone. Guys, where did we go? We need to make sure that we have the best roads, the best sports infrastructure, not the biggest beer tents. So once again I want to say, my friends, my request, to reject party and political things, and in my speeches. I believe that the Commission should continue its work and help Ukraine, the government adequately, honestly and professionally build the Olympic NSC.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u154	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. I am voting on the draft Resolution on the report of the Interim Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to verify compliance with Ukrainian legislation in the reconstruction of the National Sports Complex “Olympic” on the basis of the State Enterprise. [[Registration number 4786]] I'd like to make a statement. [[13:07:47]] For 353 Decision taken. Please, Ravil Safovich, to the rostrum. We need to make a difference here, since these dates have already been introduced, which have long been mixed up, on which orders are given. So, please, just give me a second, please. The offer, Gregory Eudkovich Smythuch.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u155	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. I just wanted to ask you one question, why today, if this is the issue, it's so much the material that the commission of inquiry has prepared, so vulnerable in terms of the negative that is around this stadium by the abuse of some officials. Why he is not present at a meeting of a minister who is caring or has been entrusted by the government to care for this stadium, why there is no answer for him, why we cannot ask him a question. And I'd like to put it in place as the chairman of the commission, why don't you put the minister out of office today, because we don't need Ukraine and we all have to get involved in this process when it's impossible to go back to save the Euro-2012 final. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u156	I want to tell you that the invitation was sent, we had to listen to that question yesterday, the day before yesterday. Today the invitation was sent, but unfortunately no minister. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u157	Please, the proposal for a draft regulation is Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u158	All right, well-respected people's deputies! I have a request in view of the fact that this issue has been on the table for a long time.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u159	Ravil Safovich, one second, please offer the National Deputy Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u160	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I thank everyone for supporting our anti-corruption decision. I'd like to ask you to change, give this to the committee right now. Because it says, "to assign the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine," I think, "by January 1st", we should put a date. Here comes the second point. Also, “by January 1st, ” before just physically you can’t just make a decision. And then the date on the second sheet of our paper, where it is "by 30 October to inform the Supreme Council" is the government, is replaced by "by 1 March", you can have the 20th, you can put it that way. January 30th can be suggested. And then, "continue work accordingly" is everything, given already normal. So here we have to agree by consensus to give now, otherwise we voted with you, and we didn't see this, which is obviously absolutely for everyone, and these would be normal dates. For the government, let's say we do these things and I'm convinced that.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u161	Please, Ravil Safovich, yours.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u162	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Agreed entirely with the proposal of the colleague “by 1 January” – the first two subparagraphs of the third paragraph, then the last “to hear and inform the Supreme Council of Ukraine by 20 January about the state of preparations. “ I’m sorry. ” And number four. Point four: Continue and listen to and listen to the commission, listen to the next session in May 2009. That's the kind of correction. Yeah, 10th year. 10th year.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u163	Please, who has any other suggestions? No more offers?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u164	I would like to vote on the three-point proposals made in three paragraphs for the draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the report of the Interim Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to verify compliance with Ukraine's legislation during the reconstruction of the National Sports Complex of the State Enterprise. Registration number 4786. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:11:57]] For three hundred Actor's been approved. The report of the Provisional Investigation Commission on investigating the violation by officials of the state administrations of the Kyiv Region of the Constitution of Ukraine and the current legislation of Ukraine in granting and transforming rights to land is under review. Reported to the head of the interim commission of inquiry, Bondarev Constantine Anatoliyovich. Dear colleagues, Constantine Anatolyovich is ill. Are there any members of the committee who are willing to report? If you don't, I want to say that the report was filed by the commission, and the deadline for the commission is over. I would like you to take into account the draft Decision of the Ukrainian People's Deputies and the members of the Commission on the report of the commission approved by the Commission in order for us to be able to identify ourselves. Please take this report into your hands, take a look at it so you can determine. We have no report in connection with the absence of a reporter and the unwillingness of any member of the commission to report, we cannot ask questions, but if the national deputies insist, we can have a discussion. Do MPs insist? They insist. Please sign in. I would like to remind you that the report of the commission is being discussed in writing three months ago. Blackmore Alexander Mikolayovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u165	Alexander Chernomorov, faction of the Party of Regions. Respectable citizens of Ukraine! Dear colleagues! It is a pity that the chairman of this commission is not present today, because I would personally have several questions to ask him. Because I have the impression that, unfortunately, the Temporary Investigations Commissions sometimes work on issues that they benefit from and do not work at all on matters they know but that they are not comfortable with. I would like to give an example of one situation in the area of the Vishgorod region, on which many are now speaking, under “Mjgorje”, on other issues, but there is also the Lebediv Village Council, in which there are grave violations of Ukrainian land and other legislation, which the President of the Commission knows, but nothing about it. This is not the case. Thus, on behalf of 23 horticultural associations, citizens have been applied for land allocation on the territory of the rural council. The chairmen of these societies know nothing of this. Half the citizens are students, as usual. Nevertheless, the earth is being prepared and agreed upon. Half the agreement is fake, I mean, the documents are relevant. Criminal cases are being initiated, and at the same time, despite criminal cases, there is an allocation of land, 25 hectares of land, 90 of which are forest land. Wood. It's a pine forest. Welcome to the great Julia Vladimirovne, who has been gathering her groves for a while and has been talking about her preservation of the forests, will help the foresters. Yet, it is completely different. Well, here's a question. What are some commissions for? If they are created to combat violations, we all understand. And if they're created to cover up raids, to intimidate judges, prosecutors, the police, that's a whole different matter. And then, as Deputy Suha said yesterday, the result of some commissions is zero, and I would say that the result of the commissions is negative. Please think about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u166	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u167	Dear National Deputies, George Carmazin. The bad news is, it doesn't sound like this report, and it's bad enough that we didn't move it at least. But if we're going to have a discussion, I have to say these things. On page 4 of this report, it is noted that the committee was not provided with the information requested from the Kragarlicksky, Makarovsky, Obukhivsky, Poliski, Fastovské Districts. Formal answers were found about the inability to provide the necessary information, the identification of some formal reasons, such as loads from the general department, vacation periods, and so on and so forth. They were sent to the Attorney General’s Office for answers and intermediate letters, and so forth. If I were to show you all the references I've made to the Kyiv region, they testify to one thing: the officials of the Kyiv region are brutally disregarding the valid Law on the Status of the National Deputy of Ukraine. I'm addressing Attorney General Medvedjick. Your subordinates, particularly the prosecutor of the Kyiv region, do not respond to parliamentary appeals, including in these areas. What's happening separately in the Brovarsky area, I only signed three petitions yesterday in this area that all relate to land issues. There are some very interesting questions that have to do with the strange rewards of individual members of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. In addition to Order IV, Jaroslav the Wise was rewarded without the Supreme Court being handed down, more loyal to the Supreme Court, one of the judges in which the decision was made to investigate a criminal case in which the decision to open the conduct was made. On the High Council of Justice. Today, two men — Ulyanchenko and Yushchenko — decide on the prize. So if you ask who made the decision. Without further ado, I repeat, the Supreme Court, because the Supreme Court has deprived this judge of all the allowances and allowances. Why are we so discrediting anything that's possible? And that's not just a decision to make, and that's a political bribe for having canceled the Jovtak decision as head of the district administration. And all the land issues are buried. Therefore, whether we want to or not, these questions need to be kept under consideration. And it's a very important question that we've been looking at today. It's about the law on commission investigators. There will be law, there will be justice, there will be answers. There will be no answer; criminal cases will have to be dealt with. This attorney general won't do it, another attorney general will do it. But it has to be done. I agree with the fact that some of the conclusions here are correct.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u168	Finish up, please. Arjev Vladimir Igorovich, please. Arjev Vladimir Igorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u169	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Indeed, it is a pity that we failed to hear the report of this commission today. But issues in the Kyiv region, such as areas where the most expensive land is concentrated, are quite numerous. And they've been there for the last five to six years. I'm already, well, I can count the three most painful directions. First. This is the Obuhi district. There the management of land resources changes like the weather on the street. The seals are gone, the archive is gone, something is burned, something is gone. Recently, the head of the land administration was replaced again. People who own a six- or eight-hundred-dollar farm still can't get their certificates. And it's been going on for, like, two years. People talk all the time. Besides, they're out, they're out, they're out, they're out, they're out, they're out, they're out, they're out, they're out, they're out, they're out, they're out, they're out, they're out, they're out, they're out, they're out, they're out, they're out, they're out, they're out, they're out, they're out, I don't know how the Kyiv Prosecutor's Office works. We heard at the committee meeting yesterday that the district attorney was reporting that it was normal. Well, let's see, he promised to pay more attention to these questions. The second painful place is the Makarov region. To be honest, I've never seen anything like it. Tens of thousands of people in land administration are losing their jobs. People have applied for land purchases or dowries, they come there, they say, “Lost.” I understand, well, one thing is lost, well, two, well, fifty or sixty is already a trend. So we need to set up Makarov’s leadership so that we can keep a closer look at the documents or figure out what this is. Well, the High Town district. It is well - known for the entire tap of Mizgir. Let's still figure out what happened to the 140 hectares of the reserve area that happened to the state residence. Let's create a temporary commission of inquiry. On the other hand, Janukovic says that the law enforcement authorities should be examined. Let there be a temporary investigation commission, let the deputies come in. It scares us that they will meet us with dignity. [[in quotes]] So what are the bandits gonna do to us or what? Let the MPs go in there. But to be honest, I understand why Viktor Fedorovich doesn't want the deputies to go there, because national deputies like the whole country will see that Yanukovic has been very eager to be like Yushchenka lately. He even brought a pazika to his home in Mizgir, and we had a herder number two. And that's why I don't think he wants the deputies to get there. And I'm not talking about Migrier anymore, about a monastery that doesn't know where it is. This is a monument to Ukraine since the time of Kiev’s Russia. So let us be honest with ourselves.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u170	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. The National Deputies, members of the Commission, proposed a draft regulation on the report of the Interim Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of violations by officials of the State administrations of the Kyiv Region of the Constitution of Ukraine and the current legislation of Ukraine in the granting and conversion of rights to land. [[Registration number 4730]] This draft decree is put to the vote for adoption as a basis. [[13:24:30.]] For 314 Decision taken. Is there a need to make changes, refinements? Please, Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u171	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, no doubt, what is being done with the land areas, especially around the city of Kiev, as well as around any district center, is understandable. It's a shame that the head of the commission has ignored, well maybe really sick, I wouldn't want to blame, but it would be worth it if we listened to the head of the commission, although I'm being asked here, unfortunately, some association that the head of the commission belongs to one of the political forces that is widely accused of being there as if there were so many abuses on this side. Therefore, it would be wise for the chairman of the commission to inform and answer some questions. And with regard to the proposals, I ask, because they want to continue their work, I think it's only natural, then the previous report, to be written, after hearing the preliminary report of the interim commission. For if the whole thing has been heard, there is nothing to continue their work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u172	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Karmazin, Yuri Anatolyovich
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u173	Dear National Deputies! Yuri Carmazin. I agree that here in the first paragraph, I have to write the words “pre-report”, and I have the right proposal, and it is also written down to me. I would ask after the words “take him to the knowledge” and send him to the President of Ukraine, and add the words “President of Ukraine”, because it is a matter of not taking action by the District State Administration, that the District State Administration does not take action on the abuse and information of cooperation with the Deputy Investigation Commission. And here, maybe write down the date where we write, "in terms of delivery and transformation, report by February 19, 2010, maybe here's the date. I'd like him to say. No, the regulatory committee may now say how. Maybe there's a little bit more time to give for work here, because it's going to be a pre-election time, and I don't think so.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u174	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this regulatory committee is not going to help us, because the commission was created on February 19th and we can't have commissions in principle for more than a year. So it's an extreme date. That's the end of the line. Thank you. Thank you. Please, School Andry Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u175	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. On the other hand, from the rostrum of the Supreme Council, Deputy Ariev made a proposal for “Megigira. ” And let's just say that this is Migirya within the Kyiv region, and let's put a dot in this story so that no one can say or blame it for being done before the elections or during the elections. It's a normal story. Why not? He proposed, and I think he will, if he has to formalize this proposal now. I think it will be completely within the scope and competence of this commission, because when we talk about the land of the Kyiv region, sorry, 140 hectares of Kyiv land, on which are the monuments of the architecture of world fame, that is, we are talking about the era of the Kyiv Russia, this is the Inter-Igor Church. What are we talking about then? How can we, as a parliament, control any action by regional or district administrations, this could not have happened without their knowledge. Without the knowledge of the President’s Secretariat, it could not have happened. Let's make this proposal and vote on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u176	Dear Andriy Vasilovich, I'm sorry you didn't hear your colleague Mikli Vladimirovich's call to us. Well, we haven't been politicized where there's no reason. In this case, it's about a report from a commission that's already been working. And this is about the abuse of government officials in the Kyiv region. If it's in the report, there's no questions, but it's not there. If we continue the commission's work, and the commission finds out what is necessary, if possible, and the materials on the violations will be presented. It's under the authority of this commission! Therefore, there is no need for special errands. Any other suggestions, please? No more suggestions. Therefore, with Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk's proposals that the previous report and the proposals of National Deputy Carmazin on the referral of the report, in addition to the above-mentioned subjects, before the President of Ukraine, put to the vote the entire Supreme Council of Ukraine's Order on the report of Ukraine's Interim Investigation Commission on the investigation of violations by officials of the State administrations of the Kyiv Region of the Constitution of Ukraine and the current legislation of Ukraine in granting and transforming rights to land.” [[Registration number 4730]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:29:50]] For 316 In general, the decree was approved, the report approved, and the commission continued to work. Dear colleagues, the proposal came: Today, in the morning, in the morning session, to consider Bill 5416 under the signatures of the leaders of the five factions. [[on the settlement of tax payments to the agricultural sector of Ukraine since 1 January 2010]] Is there no objection to the faction-member national MPs? None. Bill 5416 is announced for consideration. Reporting by Ukraine’s national deputy, Vaszczuk Katerina Timofievna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u177	Dear colleagues, the need for consideration and adoption of the bill are called upon to follow. This bill was passed on time by you and I in this room, and it was very painful, because in this room we twice passed the President's veto on this bill. But all this year it worked. On November 26, the Constitutional Court of the President repealed the act. The main thing is a few things.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u178	Catherine Timofievna, please take a break because I haven't been able to turn around, see the schedule. This is a question that needs to be included in the agenda of the day session. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the draft Law on Amendments to certain laws of Ukraine on support for an agri-industrial complex in the context of the global financial crisis. [[Registration number 5416]] I'd like to make a statement. [[13:32:02]] For 271 Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u179	Dear colleagues, there are several basic positions. The main ones are the continuation of the fixed, agricultural, added value tax, the so-called special regime for the agricultural sector, forestry and fisheries. It also regulates the price points at which farmers are treated for grain conservation, the identification of livestock, other veterinary services that are required to have no more than 20 percent of their income, or it is not possible for peasants to do so. And what's very important is that the right of the Agrarian Fund is regulated if it bought bread in the peasants to implement it when its surplus is no longer necessary to preserve it for the country, for the internal need. What's the big deal? Dear colleagues, today both newspapers and many deputies approach me and say, “Katerina Timofievna, there is one point that predicts that a special fund should be created if, at the adoption of the State budget, and those funds should be channeled to support animal production by one cow.” That's very right. Today we can take the cow to the Red Book. This is the right point. Since we do not support this, we drink powdered milk with you. Our children, we are with you, our children. We eat oil, which has 70 percent of palm oil. And so on and so forth. We will soon do so that we will take everything to Ukraine, and there will be no cows in Ukraine. And we need to support animalry. Many of these are denied by the processors. As this tax remained in them, they used it and did not always give it up honestly as a peasant’s grant. To the peasants it came little. We tried, we passed the law. They believed that he would help the village, and that was not the case. But today I'm asking you, dear. If anyone has doubts, note that this paragraph can only take effect if we adopt the state budget and introduce a special tape that will provide for the creation of a special fund. If we do not do so, this law is written in such a way that it works as before, nothing changes. Taxes on added cost as a price subsidy are distributed to food and processing companies. So we have a lot of time to produce such a mechanism that these costs actually reach the peasants. And if that's what we're going to do, when we adopt the budget, we're going to bring in the tape. If not, the law will act as it has done to this day. These are such novels. I'm addressing you, dear fellows! Ten times today, the number of cattle and even more cattle has decreased. And the population cuts out cows. And if we don't give him a signal that we've been paying attention to this, that we're going to try to make support, and you're going to consider what the budget will be for the poor next year, and without this peasant being able to survive, we're going to still be cutting out calves, little calves, and we're going to be thinking that we're not going to have our own livestock, we're going to be doing this useless thing that we're going to need for meat, we're going to eat the powder that we're going to be producing into milk and palm oil that we're going to be blessing our children on. I ask you very much, this law supports the poorest, those who feed us today, but still feed the Ukrainian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u180	Is there a question for Catherine Timothy? Yes. Please sign in. Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u181	That's my question. Tell me, please, but from your statement, it gets worse and worse every day in the village. The village is going to die, it's going to rot. So the government doesn't do anything? It's all smothering the village, choking, choking, choking. Then the question arises whether the government will be, or the village. Today's government and village are incompatible. Someone's gonna survive, and someone's gonna die. But for Ukraine, it is better that the village survives, that there be no government. Do you think I'm right or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u182	Mikhail Vasilovich, there has never been such a year that the village is as difficult as this year. And the villagers are making their own conclusions. Do you understand? But we need to remember that the issue of the village should be considered in the complex. And the question of the village. Do you know what the problem is? Last night, Mikola Volodymyrovich and I listened to a whole bunch of remarks from the villagers. To this day, Ukraine’s economy survives at the expense of a peasant. Instead of raising the income of the population so that it can buy food at a decent price, we endlessly regulate everything that sells peasants. And we're making for him the kind of price he's in damage. If we continue to do so, we will only continue to regulate that on the way out to the peasant and let go of the prices of everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u183	Catherine Timothy! Catherine Timothy! Take a break and finish your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u184	But let the village remain, Mikhail Vasilovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u185	School of Andriy Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u186	Governments are changing, and the village is supposed to be.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u187	Thank you. Well, first of all, I want to say that you don't hide the village, please, because if the village survives the three walks of the Yanukovic government, it will survive a lot of other things. Believe me, everything will be fine with the village. And we're working hard enough with that, and the government is working to help, because the village is very vulnerable, and you're all very understanding what's going on in the world, and the crisis, including. But I think we're going to support this bill on the first reading. I only have one question. This is where you pointed out the cows. We've already passported cows there, there have been times, and in what way? Is that an explanation, please, in what way? Very short. This will help to preserve the cattle’s head, for it is not just cows, but we say that the calf also needs to be grown for meat, including meat. Say it, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u188	Thank you. I want to say that if you and I, together with the agrarian committee, discuss in the hall when we adopt the budget and form this tape, the mechanism that will guarantee us that these costs are coming to the peasant, it could be between a thousand and one and a half thousand dollars per cow. [[For a second!]] Tell me, does this help your uncle? Help. And no one's gonna cut the calf off, but they're gonna leave it on the cow. And we can literally support the village in two years to multiply the livestock. And you know, there could have been nothing in the farm. There's a cow left, surviving the village, isn't there? So we need to think about how we can do this so that we don't offend either pigs or other industries, but also support those who support the Ukrainian cow nurse. And that's not funny, because some very trained MPs here shouted to me: “What cow?Oh, my God! What cow?!"
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u189	Katerina Timofievna, please take a break and finish your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u190	And what I'm saying is, the cow that saved all the difficult times, not just the peasant, but the whole nation.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u191	Vazievsky Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u192	Mrs. Catherine, I am quite right in responding to your bill because, in fact, today's government has applied itself to make those cows smaller. We know when the buffalo of unknown origin was imported, and whether it was just buffalo, then the Ukrainian herd of cattle fell by a third. I thank you for this bill, but one thing worries me: the government's attitude towards agriculture, the peasant, including the problem you're raising, it's much deeper. And your bill suggests that the Cabinet of Ministers settle. And who? Is that a calf, or is that a weed? And who will determine that? This mechanism is given directly to the Cabinet of Ministers. I think it might happen that we don't have cows in line with the Cabinet of Ministers, or very people with certain political ambitions in the village will determine who has a cow and who doesn't have a cow. Therefore, I would like this position to be regulated by current legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u193	Thank you. That's very true. And because of that, I stressed that if we were to adopt the State Budget, and if we were to have the will to record the creation of this fund, support for livestock in Ukraine, especially cows, it should be written there, and we should hear it, and believe it. Then it is only by supporting that mechanism that will allow us to reach every peasant who is enthusiastic today that still has a head in his heart.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u194	Hare Ivan Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u195	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. Mrs. Catherine, I agree that the village needs a comprehensive solution to the problems. And that's why I'm drawing your attention to a personal farm. For two years now, my bill has been going through the Supreme Council to pay taxes on citizens' incomes, i.e. those who have compared their pies to two hectares, to reduce or make a zero bet. So I'm going to go on to look at this problem. And the second. We really need to protect the national manufacturer today. And we need to limit the supply of meat, milk, other things. So I propose to adopt this bill now in the first reading. To agree that on Tuesday on the second, the second week to accept it as a whole, then we will have a result. If we extend this bill for a long time, we will have no result. Tom, come on, we'll act on that logic.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u196	Thank you, Ivan Alexanderovich, and I would like to address you so that, by voting for this bill in the first reading, with the government of understanding is still here we agreed that we would have to accept it in the first day of the week, in the second reading, to be able to sign the President. And so that from January 1st, peasants don't kill all the kinds of taxes that exist in the country today. Since November 26, tax authorities have already been able to collect taxes from peasants.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u197	Hell-bent Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u198	I think it's a very important bill, and it's not economic, it's social. I was, like you, in my district in the Novonikalaev region in the village of Barvinovka, now there's a lot of talk about genocide in the past. Please tell me, in a village where there is a school and seven years ago there were 140 students, 40 teachers, and today there are 40 students and 12 teachers. Isn't that genocide? What can save the village? Gas, water, roads, and most of all jobs. Animal husbandry is the salvation of the village. And we need to address this issue in a comprehensive way. It's not enough for us to take the money that a single person earns and give him over the speculator, we have to give him the opportunity to keep the social benefits he receives. Cow, work is not income, it's a sip of the village's air.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u199	Thank you. I agree with you completely, and if we think hard and accept a number of other suggestions that agrarians offer, it's not just the rebirth of animals, it's weeding and pottery that will give jobs. Because we're talking about everything today. I don't know how colleagues in the hall, well, on TV we see endlessly what jobs today are prestigious: models, on the panel, something else. And no one mentions those breadwinners who are still feeding their own country. Shut up! Be patient! But in the end, patience will come to an end. There'll be some old ones left. With whom will we stay in Ukraine?Oh, my God! With unnecessary traffic, we are widely seen abroad to become a market for the sale of their goods, not a country that dumps their products. And the second. There are very serious food problems in the world.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u200	Catherine Timothy, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u201	It is in the village of Ukraine that Ukraine can become a major exporter of products, acquire currency, and so forth. Now is a golden time to raise your own agrarian sector.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u202	Dear colleagues, time for questioning is over. There's a need. Just a minute. A report from the jury of Jury Mikola Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u203	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! Dear National Deputies! Of course, the bill, taking into account that the Constitutional Court had declared unconstitutional Law 0922. This bill is necessary. And it's urgent, why we've raised that question, it's important enough. Because about two billion bracelets, which were envisioned by the state as benefits before, on the payment of taxes by peasants, today the peasant processors will, of course, have to pay these costs. And this bill we were looking at two days ago at a committee meeting. Of course, there were plenty of discussions: which is still a scheme for moving money to the peasant to save, either through the processor or directly to the manufacturer. And we made a decision: recommend to the Supreme Council, ask the Supreme Council to adopt the bill in the first reading. For three days, the Ministry will offer the order of use of these funds and ask the next week to consider this bill in a second reading and in general. According to a large account, Catherine Timofievna sounded all the key points of the bill. We do. The bill suggests that VAT is directed to the special fund, is accumulated, and is then directed directly to the dairy producer, or the meat, or head of the cow. What will that do in reality? We see that the previous support of the agrarian State in this segment, which was active, is large or small — we will not speak today, but it was inactive because the head was rapidly falling, imports of cream and milk, and dairy products from Belarus were rapidly increasing. So what's he talking about? That support was not effective. And today, this mechanism that we've discussed with both the Ministry and the Committee, and with manufacturers, we think that if it's properly and efficiently written, it'll stimulate and increase the head, and it'll stimulate the peasant not to sell the milk calf to get cut. And when I get 700 dollars, I think that's exactly what it's going to be to stimulate the increase in the head. Of course, it's important enough if the ministry is able to initiate the creation of progressive support to increase livestock for the next year. What do I mean? That's if you hold one head -- 700 bucks, if you have two or 800. And so on a progressive scale. Then it will enable us to get out of this crisis pit that was created today in animalry. What does statistics say? That imports have made us a big wave today. And if we can't get back out of this thing today and stand in front of it, we won't be able to identify with you as Ukrainians as a whole. What key positions I wanted to stop at. In addition, the bill provides for the introduction of unlimited taxation under a special tax regime at added cost. It also provides for an unlimited extension during the operation of a fixed agricultural tax. And stopping operations with donor raw materials, which is also a roof for smuggling to our country. So this bill stops dealing with donor raw materials for the 1-24 product group is a food group. The introduction of national standards for meat products, such as sausages, is also envisaged, which will enable us to obtain more quality sausages and sausages that we eat with you. This bill did not include that article, which was in 902 laws, which is about supporting the National Bank of Ukraine to liquidate commercial banks that lend loans to agrarians. The committee's decision is to recommend that the bill be supported in the first reading. Take the basis and prepare for the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u204	Thank you. Is there a question for Mikolia Volodymyrovich? Are you insisting on the question? Is there any need for further discussion? Let's sign up for a discussion. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u205	Dear National Deputies! Yuri Carmazin. I would like to thank the deputies of Vasuk, Jury, Kirilenka for introducing this bill. I'd just like to say that, your honor, as we have so strangely done, it's unclear that it's the Constitutional Court, and it's supposed to be working against the state, against its own government. I'd like to remind those here today who have laundered the government that the previous bill 922, which is aimed at preventing the crisis, was precisely about reducing the impact of the crisis on the development of the APC. It was just a government bill. And in order to make it worse, this decision of the Constitutional Court of 24 November 2009 number 29 recognized this law as not in conformity with the Constitution. I recall this happened in a way that contradicts the Constitution, that is, signatures without open consideration, without the Supreme Council expressing itself as a legislative body. I mean, the laws are unconstitutionally declared unconstitutional. Now, what offer can be made to this law? I've now looked around, what was out of the banks, in the end instead of one cow, you have to write down one head of cattle, because it's about different bulls and different cattle, this one word needs to be changed, nothing more, it can be changed today. However, it is extremely important that this law states in the “Transitional Regulations” that the amount of tax added to the value charged by the processing undertakings in accordance with paragraph 5, paragraph 2, section 1 of this Act, between the date of the effective date of the Constitutional Court’s decision of 24 November, until the date of entry into force of the Act, is not subject to payment to the budget. It's a signal for the peasant today, cut it now, because now this law is going to be published. So that's why I would ask, here the committee would agree with me and write down instead of a cow, write down the head of the cattle no matter what kind of cattle it is, once. And secondly, to adopt this law in the first and second readings. My second request is to the committee, Your Honor, you have now tabled the bill, the right thing to do. But it's only registered to you on December 10, 2009. Fear the god and consider the questions that are registered with you but according to Karmazin’s signature. It was written on November 27, 2008, a law on liability for defective production. [[3421]] And all these horns and hooves you wouldn't have at all. The second law, introduced by Karmazin over a year ago, is also the 27th, on general product safety. [[3420]] Please, please, please, please, please, please, please, don't do this, and this law can be passed on the first and second readings, if they agree to a little amendment, about banks being removed there, it's constitutional. Thank you. The minister may say.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u206	Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u207	Dear colleagues, I am very pleased that Comrade Carmazin has begun to engage in the agrarian and industrial complex, perhaps order will be there, maybe order will be there. But seriously, on the one hand, we really should thank those who care about the agrarian complex for the operational response around the problem that has arisen. Indeed, with the Constitutional Court's decision, the village workers face an extremely important and dangerous problem, which could lead to a further decline in the agricultural sector. And on the other hand, dear colleagues, I call on a particularly professional committee, especially people who have a direct bearing on this agrarian industrial complex. We're practically every year, or every month or quarter, we're going to patch some holes in the APC legislation. Can't we create some kind of comprehensive bill that works to support the agricultural and industrial complex? I think we can. And one such attempt was when the Cabinet of Ministers passed the bill, but for the sake of justice, it must be said that there was little left of the Kabmin bill, because in considering it before the second reading, it had undergone a major revision of the bill. To some extent, he could have solved these problems, of course the banks did not like it. And if the banks didn't like it, the bankers run everything, including, unfortunately, the Constitutional Court, which made the decision. And we have to patch up this hole today, they say. On the other hand, on the other hand, the reporters here said that the committee of profile had held a meeting of people who had a bearing on it. That's very good. But unfortunately, these are not the kind of meetings that go, the letters write us, the MPs, there are organized people in the fields. Organized are private entrepreneurs who manufacture, recycle and resell milk. We may still need to turn to those who feed the State. Unfortunately, we rarely ask a peasant whose work it is, and all of this is being done, and it is being processed. And here, of course, if we're going to take it and we're going to have to take it, I would ask that we find an active form if this grant were to reach your grandfather, the grandmother who sells this milk, so that it doesn't go back to those who recycle it, and it's still gone. There is no doubt that the problem here is that the one who produces it has benefited from it. So our faction supports this vital bill and we ask it to vote on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u208	Dear colleagues! I am addressing our fellow national deputies: School, Chechetov, Chernomorov. Do you insist on your performances as you signed up? Are you insisting?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m0.u209	A break of 16 hours is announced. The morning session is closed.
