ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:00:47]] Cards were registered in the 410 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the National Deputies: Vetwicki Dmitry Alexanderovich, Corporal Vladimir Vladimirovich and Lozinski Viktor Alexanderovich. Let us welcome our colleagues and wish them a successful parliamentary life in good health. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, let me give you an overview of the plenary work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from March 31st to April 3, 2009. Three plenary sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine were held, 33 issues of the agenda were considered, nine laws and three decrees were adopted, seven bills were adopted, two bills were sent to the committee for re-reading, 12 bills and one draft decree were rejected. Dear colleagues, according to the decision of the Conciliation Council of Ukraine based on article 19 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, today we are holding an extraordinary plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The questions that are discussed in the proposals for convening such a meeting are yours. Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 25 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules on Friday, April 3, 2009, were expected to announce requests from national deputies, but for some reason you have not been able to do so, so we discussed at the Conciliation Council the proposal to announce these parliamentary requests today and then to continue our work according to the schedule set for April 6. We're only going to hold this morning's plenary session, which is until 14th or 14.15th and then we're going to work on the committees. At 11 a.m., the President of the European Parliament will address the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We have many delegations in the Supreme Council of Ukraine today: a delegation of the European Parliament led by the President of the European Parliament, a report by the monitoring committee of the PARJE, and a parliamentary delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of NATO. There will be meetings with faction leaders, so today will be a very stressful day. And we also agreed on Friday that the Supreme Council of Ukraine will start its work on the agenda of the Cabinet of Ministers, which is also called the Anti-Crist Program. Also, dear colleagues, today we have agreed that the Supreme Council of Ukraine will, after the request has been announced, adopt a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the referral of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Congress of the United States of America on the financing of the work on the disposal of rocket fuel, which is stored at the Dnipropetrovsk in Pavlovgrad. At the same time, I would like to point out that we have discussed this draft reference, that we have agreed with all the leaders of the MP factions, that there are some editorial issues that have been dealt with by the working group, and that we have decided that we will not discuss this issue, but that we will simply make the right decision and refer it to the United States Congress. Given that I am about to meet with representatives of the PARIS Monitoring Committee, the meeting will be held by the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, Alexander Lavrinović.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, we must now announce the MP's request. I want to remind you once again of what the Head of the Supreme Council has said right now, that in view of the fact that the Chief of the Supreme Council and the parliamentary majority have agreed that we are starting our work next Tuesday at 10 a.m. to consider the Anti-Crist Program of the Government, because today the Supreme Council is working. Both Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin and Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko assured this. Now there are no parliamentary requests and proposals. There is a request for deputies to work today because we have an extraordinary plenary meeting. Please sign in. The Chechetov National MP gives the word to Hanni Mikolayevni Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u3	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! We would like to stress that we have succeeded in blocking parliament and the multi-million-dollar rally in Kiev, which has taken place, that the government will bring the anti-crisis programme together with the budget amendments. It was they who promised us to make April 14th. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to the incorrect and offensive statements made by the Prime Minister and the Head of the Supreme Council to the address of the 50,000 Ukrainians who were rallying in Kiev on Friday. And the Prime Minister insulted and disrespected these people twice. The first time she disrespected them when they got rid of their jobs when they lost their jobs, the second time she disrespected them when she accused them.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u4	Kirilenko Ivan Grigorović instead of Steshenko Aleksandra Mikolajovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u5	Dear Head, dear colleagues! Usually, in recent times, our faction has not commented on such things, and we find them absurd at all. The anti-crisis programme was introduced by the government in the Parliament on December 23rd. She's in the hall. But no committee led by our distinguished opposition has considered it, although this document should be considered on all committees and concluded. Then the committee heads and faction leaders will speak in the rostrum, because this is a serious matter, an anti-crisis program of the state. But if the opposition thinks so, so be it. The anti-crisis program is ready for four months in the walls of the Supreme Council. Today, we offer not to start with opposition, with an image, but to start with constructive work together. With the order of the day, we agree and support the proposal to work full-time today, without opposition, effectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u6	Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u7	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, dear colleagues, we have a very intensive, serious agenda right now. I don't think we need to sway, or, as they say, "scramble the situation" with all sorts of accusations, the name of the number of people rallying. I think they'll say 500,000 in a week. Let's say 500,000, people have the right to express their dissatisfaction. But we need to work, not talk about rallying and stuff. Today there are important bills, today there is a law on the employment of members of private agriculture, there is a law on the system of assembly and the calculation of the only social contribution, today an important appeal to the US Congress for the non-financialization of ammunition. And this is for all of Pavlovgrad as a powdered pomegranate. We have a lot to do, let's not get ahead of ourselves. Parliament's function is to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u8	Kenzior Jaroslav Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u9	Jaroslav Kenzior, “For Ukraine!” Dear Chief, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs, I believe that today we should definitely discuss a very sensitive situation. As we know, in these days the Head of the Supreme Council in Moscow has stated that the Russian Black Sea fleet is to be a guarantee of Ukraine's security. Is it that one of the leaders of the ruling coalition in the Supreme Council has already decided that the Black Sea fleet of Russia should remain in Ukraine forever and guarantee our security? How should such a turn of events be explained, and how should it react, should today’s coalition in the Supreme Council react? And by the way, parents, the birth parents of this coalition should also comment on how they feel about such a statement by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u10	Dutch Boris Davidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u11	Please pass the word to Anne Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u12	Dear National Deputies! I really support all thoughts about what Parliament should do constructively, but in order for Parliament to work constructively, the first persons of the State should not make provocative statements, should not offend people, should not do anything that would disrupt the situation in the hall. So I think that the Prime Minister and Lithuania should apologize to the Ukrainians for their accusations that the people who came out to protest their beggarly existence should apologize to those people for accusing them of being bought. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u13	Dear colleagues, those who insisted on making suggestions were exchanged, and we continue our work. Then we have the MP's application. The following parliamentary questions came: Jury Crook to the President of Ukraine on the use of measures to provide housing for citizens affected by the gas explosion in the village of Fontanca in the Odessa district of Cominternov; Valery Bondik to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the issue of the release of Anatolia Pisarenko from office as a member of the Central Electoral Commission; Andrija Portnova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the corruption of Minprompolitics, which led to the collapse of the Ukrainian-Chinese contract for construction of warships at Ukrainian factories; Vadim Kolesnick to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the illegal pressure of the head of the National Expert Commission on the Protection of the Social Morality of Vasil Kostické on the Internet edition of the phrase; Victor Sinchenk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-payment of subsidies to citizens of the Boguslav region of the Kyiv region for their livestock in 2008; Vladimir Danilenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the unsatisfactory enforcement of the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers Order No. 735 of 11 September 2007 on the transfer of the transit part of the road to state property in the cities of Deaf and Six Sumsk; Vladimir Lemza to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the increase in electricity prices by the National Commission for Electricity Regulation of Ukraine from 19 March 2009 “On the change of electricity tariffs to the population, to the settlements and the approval of changes to the order in which electricity tariffs are applied to the population and to the population centres”; Dmitry Reva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the granting of debt subsidies when setting a tariff level that does not cover the costs associated with the transport of passengers by city electric transport; Eduard Prutnik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Industrial Policy of Ukraine, Minister of Fuel and Energy of Ukraine, Head of the NAK Naftogaz Ukraine Government, on the conversion of the Bahmach work team of the Chernigian Engineering Plant and on the implementation of appropriate measures to support the national machinery for special equipment for the oil and gas sector, the necessary national stock company Naftogaz Ukraine, to increase domestic gas production; Edouard Prutnik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the appeal of private carriers of the region of Czernigiv and Borznian region to the private carriers of the region for timely compensation for the payment of individual categories of citizens and the use of appropriate measures to repay the debt due to subsidies from the State budget of Ukraine to the local budgets for the implementation of contracts concluded between private carriers and the indicated holdings of the region of Chernigiv; Eugene Goodyak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the situation that has arisen with the station of the railway race Owrück-Wilch-Yan, which has socio-economic and military strategic significance. Eugene Goodyak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the failure to comply with the Supreme Council of Ukraine ruling on the recommendation of Parliamentary hearings “National Cinematography: Status, Problems and Ways of Resolution” from 18 March 2005 in part of the restoration of the activities and the material and technical base of the State Film Studio; Eugene Kzarkov to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Defence of Ukraine for the transfer of Ukraine's Ministry of Defence to the community of the village of Petrovka of Odessa district of the building of the House of Officers; Mr. Mikoli Rudchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, on the cancellation of the Order to hold the All-Ukrainian Congress of Representatives of Legal Higher Education Institutions and Scientific Institutions No. 241 from 17 March 2009; Mikoli Shershun to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Minister of Ukraine for Emergency Situations and Protection of Populations from the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster regarding the appeal of the Ravenna District Public Association “The Union of Chernobyl” to the failure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine ruling of 18 April 2008 “On the state, measures and prospects of overcoming the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster”; Oleg Polishchuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the critical state of the open shareholders association “Ukrainian Danube Sailing”; Oleg Polishchuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on corruption in the Ministry of Ukraine on emergency situations and on the protection of the population against the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster and commercial activities of Deputy Minister Valeri Trelyakow; Alexander Volkova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the unsatisfactory activities of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to ensure the development of the State International Airport Borispold; Helen Bondarenko to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine to determine the conditions for granting a visa to enter Ukraine for more than 90 artists from DAIWIN PERFORMIN ARTS; Paul Sulkovski to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-refoulement of children's shelter at Revene Street, 23-A; Ruslan Lukianczuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the restoration of the electric train scheme in the Fastest direction and on the involvement of those responsible for causing inconvenience to passengers; Sergei Gordienka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Poltava District State Administration, on the situation that took place on the territory of the Mangeli Village Council of the Globin District of Poltava, because of the halt in the reconstruction of the dam that connects the village of Lamane to the centre and other villages of the region, the urgent need to allocate funds for the completion of repairs at the designated site and to restore the link between the settlements; Sergei Gordienka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Health of Ukraine, Head of the Poltava District Public Administration for the requirements of the villages of Krudreninci, Savinci, Jablouneva, Pilipovici, Zagreb, Seasonal, Denisovka, Orsgitsky District of Poltava, Deputies of the District District Council, the public of this area regarding the non-closure of the Krupoderna District Hospital; Mr Grenevetsky's Sergey to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the amendment of the Higher Education Act; Sergia Pavlenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of a targeted subsidy from the State budget of Ukraine for the construction of sewage and sewage facilities in the village of Ivanków in the region of Kiev; July Novikova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to increase the speed and possible negative effects of the decision; Jaroslav Kendzior to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the intention to stop the cellulose plant The Open Association of the Jewish CDC and start the process of preserving production for an indefinite period; Jaroslav Suhogo to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the restoration of the work of the Open Association of Shareholders, the “Gravan factory of specializationbenet” in the Vinnitsk Region; Anatolia Seminoga to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, heads of the Ukrainian Security Service, heads of the National Tax Administration of Ukraine, heads of the Supreme Audit and Audit Office of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine on the purposeless use of the funds of the municipal community of the Ukrainian capital city of the hero city of Kiev; Arnold Radovts to the Minister for Culture and Tourism of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on unlawful alienation from the state property of the land of historical and cultural origin; Artema Sinica to the Minister of Health of Ukraine on failure to execute a court decision by officials of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine regarding the renewal of the post of chief physician of the Moscow sanatorium in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Leonida Goranova. Valerija Shamanov to the head of the National Tax Administration of Ukraine, Head of the State Financial Monitoring Committee of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine on the unsatisfactory work of law enforcement authorities in responding to parliamentary appeals regarding the illegal activities of business entities that, by creating an organized criminal group, have caused particularly large-scale damage to the State; Victor Korja to the Minister of Health of Ukraine for the review of information published at the meeting of the summary College of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine; Victoria Demianchuk to the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, regarding the provision by the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine and the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine of unreliable information and his response to parliamentary appeals and questions about the failure to execute a court decision for about three years; Victoria Demyanchuk to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Head of the State Tax Administration of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of Ukraine, on ignoring the parliamentary requests for illegal activity of a number of enterprises, which are being carried out for the corruption of the Chief of Linear Administration on South-West Railways of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on Paul Huzola's rail transport; Vladislav Kaskov to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the abuse of office as Director of Melnice Podilski District Municipal Children's Home of the Ternopil region of Galina Zipivnik; Vladimir Yavorowski to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the inaction of the Prosecutor's Office of the Kirovograd Region in considering the intentional failure of the decisions of the Lenin District Court of Kirovgrad and the Dnipropetrov Administrative Court of Appeal by the City of Kyorov, city head Volodymyr Puzakov, to renew the position of the first Deputy City Chief Anatolia Preznost and pay him a salary during the forced walk; Grigory Smituha to the National Bank of Ukraine on the status and use of Ukraine's gold stock; Eugene Kirilchuk, head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Attorney General of Ukraine, on the high level of corruption in the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Lviv Region; Igor Ribakov to the head of the Ukrainian State Customs Service for giving a proper response to the MP's request by the Chief of the Yagodin Customs; Igor Ribakova to the head of the State Customs Service of Ukraine for an inappropriate response to a parliamentary appeal by the head of South Customs; Mikli Kulczycke to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for failure by officials of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine to execute the decision of the October District Court of Poltava of 15 January 2008 on the renewal of Viktor Bondarenko in office since 27 August 2007; Mikoli Rudchenka, head of the Ukrainian Security Service, on a tense situation involving the supply of natural gas to companies of the Open Stock Exchange Company “The Winter Oil Plant” and the Society with a limited responsibility “The Zitomir Paper Factory”; Mikoli Tomenka to the Minister of Health of Ukraine on cases of psychological and psychotherapy impact on the mass audience; Mikoli Shershuna to the Minister of Agriculture Policy of Ukraine on the delay in disbursing funds from the Ukrainian Agrarian Fund under the future crop of the agricultural private company “Siyanské” of the Ostróskie region of the Plain region; Mikhail Wolinz to the Minister of Coal Industry of Ukraine regarding the dissatisfaction with the reply to the parliamentary appeal for non-payment of debts on salary to employees of the state-owned enterprise “Furthermary and Technical Equipment and Production Company” of the Donetskwogil Production Union; Olega Babeyeva to the Minister of Transport and Liaison of Ukraine regarding violations of the rights of residents of the city of Kremenchuk and the Kremenchuck region to take a business trip on suburban rail transport; Oleg Malič to the Minister of Defence of Ukraine on the economic situation of manufacturing and forestry enterprises, military councils and other economic entities of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine and on their effective management in 2008-2009; Alexander Schepeleva to the Minister for Housing and Utilities of Ukraine on the non-admission of the increase in housing and utility tariffs in Kiev; Alexander Shepeleva to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the use of measures to prevent the increase in crime during the economic crisis; Olga Bodnar to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the need for urgent measures to complete the construction of the Dniprov Towers housing complex; Sergey Shevchuk to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, head of the Ukrainian Security Service for neglecting the rights of young specialists when approved; Jury Crook to the head of the High Council of Justice on the use of measures to protect the interests of a Ukrainian citizen against court-martials; Yuri Odarchenka to the National Bank of Ukraine for baseless refusals to return deposits that have expired; Igor Kryla and Oksana Biozr to the executive responsibility of the head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine to carry out a verification of the abuse of the monopoly status of milk processing enterprises in the Plain region, other regions of Ukraine, and to prevent the setting of low purchase prices for milk purchased in supporting rural farms; Andrija Portnova to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the abuse of Jaroslav Kendzior as a national deputy of Ukraine, which resulted in the purposeless spending of budgetary resources and caused significant damage to the State; Valery Konovaluka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on gross violations of Ukrainian legislation by the Ministry of Defence; Vassil Wooden to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the improper examination by the Prosecutor of the Ternopil region of the facts referred to in the parliamentary address; Victor Sinchenk to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the wrong conduct of the management of the agricultural production cooperative Gorbani of the Gorbani Cross-checking area of the Kyiv region; Victor Slauti to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the raiding of state property on the Leleka Recreational Base of the Herson Region, which belongs to the state-owned research enterprise of the Ascanian Academy of Agricultural Sciences; Vladimir Karpuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the improper conduct by the authorities of knowledge of their duties and the delay in investigating the deaths of Major Oleg Masniew during his official duties; Vladimir Yavorowski to the Attorney General of Ukraine concerning the illegal activity of the head of the Kiev City State Administration, Leonid Cherniewecki, and other high-ranking officials of the local authorities of Kiev on the acquisition of control over enterprises belonging to the Kyivmiskbud holding company; Mr. Derkac to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the cessation of the illegality of law enforcement and the use of urgent measures by the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine to protect the rights of shareholders of the Open Shareholders Association "The Pethatsky Elevator" from raids; Michael Wolinz to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the dissatisfaction with the reply to the parliamentary request for violations of labour legislation regarding the payment of work, illegal layoffs and obstacles to the activities of the professional organization of the Society's administration with limited responsibility of the “Tomorrow” sanatorium; Alexander Chernomorov to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the improper examination and non-responsibility of an essentially parliamentary appeal for the verification of the activities of the management of the Technology Society, its compliance with the Statute and the land legislation and the actions of the Prosecutor's Office of the Balaklus district of Sevastopol in this case; Alexia Kostusev to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the persecution of Odessa City Council deputies; Vadim Korotyuk and Svetoslav Olijnik to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the possible involvement of Eugene Reddenek in poisoning a candidate for the Ukrainian Presidentship of Victor Yushchenk; Andrija Pavlovski to the prosecutor of Kiev for the prevention of abuse in renting the Bessarab Square in Kiev; Vladimir Maruschenka to the Kiev City Head for the annulment of the decision of Kievrada of 20 December 2007 on the sale of land to the Limited Responsibilities Alliance-Centre for the construction, operation and maintenance of the office-trade centre on the street of Bogdan Hmelnicky, 7 in the Shevchenkov district of Kiev; Vladimir Pilpenka to the Chief Executive of the Ministry of Interior of Ukraine in the Dnipropetrov region for the purpose of drawing the head of the Dnipropetrov district administration of Victor Bondar to responsibility for the corruption of illegal alienation of forest and reserve land; Eugene Kzarykov to the Odessa City Head for refusing the Social Protection Fund for the Disability of the Great Homeland War to prolongate the lease of the premises; Alexia Plotnikov to the Kiev City Head on dissatisfaction with the reply to the MP's request to replace the elevators in house number 27 on the prospect of Victory in Kiev; Roman Zabzaluk to the head of the Santa Claus City Council for the failure to respond to a parliamentary appeal regarding the possible illegal construction of private territory in the city of Mikolayev; Mr Olijnik to the Chief of the Ministry of Interior in the Dnipropetrov region for the immediate cessation of harassment from citizens of an area organized by a group of officials of the Dnipropetrov district administration in the form of the “Give School Window” programme and the involvement of the guilty persons in the responsibility; Dear colleagues, we have one request to the President of Ukraine, which we have to vote on, a request from Yuri Crook to take measures to ensure the housing of citizens affected by the gas explosion in the village of Fontanka, in the Odessa district. I'll vote in favour of the MP's request. [[10:33:20]] For 330. Request supported. I'm voting on a motion from the President of Ukraine, and I'm asking you to identify yourself. [[10:33:42]] For 330. Decision taken. The factions asked for it. Please, by the factions. To request the President of Ukraine: Party of Regions – 137, "Block of July Timoshenko" – 146, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" – 5, Communists – 27, "Block of Lithuania" – 15. Dear colleagues, we are now moving on to the first issue of the agenda. Draft Decision to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Congress of the United States of America. As reported by John Grigorovich Kirilenko. As Ivan Grigorovich gathers, I will provide information that this address has been made to the Supreme Council by all five leaders of the MP factions registered in the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u14	Dear Head, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! The reason for the appeal to the United States Congress was the critical situation in the city of Pavlovgrad in Dnipropetrovska with the preservation of solid rocket fuel. It's accumulated over this period of 5,000 tons. It represents, this volume, the enormous danger to life, health, and the environment. The question is: When Ukraine became a nuclear - free state, for the first time in the world, giving up the third nuclear potential, there was an agreement that was initialled with the United States government to dispose of this rocket fuel. This cooperation began in 1993 and was to be completed by the complete disposal of this dangerous fuel in 2002. Regrettably, the various factors, the objective, the subjective, that prevented the process, led to the failure to complete the procedure in 2003. Cooperation in the unilateral order was halted. The situation today is critical, if not too critical. Thus, the leaders of the five factions of Parliament signed a unanimous proposal to refer to the United States government, to the United States Congress, to renew this cooperation, which is of particular importance to environmental ecology and, of course, to continue political, economic and cooperation in the field and in the field of space and environmental protection. Let me read this address, for it is not likely that all MPs have been able to get to know him. The extraordinary circumstances in which the final phase of the long - term process began, including the conclusion of an agreement between Ukraine and the United States of America to assist Ukraine in the elimination of strategic nuclear weapons, as well as the prevention of the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction since October 25, 1993, make it possible for you to accept and address this appeal. As we know, Ukraine has become the first country to be the only country in human history to voluntarily strip off the third largest nuclear power in the world, thus setting an example to other nuclear powers as a response to the universal desire to rid the world of nuclear dangers. Any weapon of mass destruction is not just a deadly vessel, but a whole set of aids for its preparation and implementation. Strategic nuclear weapons also require too complex infrastructure to maintain them safely. Clearly, the elimination of this type of weapons of mass destruction requires considerable effort, spending, time, and burden for the country’s economy and, therefore, for the sake of the security of other nations, to provide appropriate assistance to this matter. It was for the purpose of achieving the stated goal that the agreement between Ukraine and the United States of America was to be concluded and implemented by the third implementation agreement between the Ministry of Defence and the U.S. Department of Defense regarding the provision of material and technical equipment, services and appropriate training for personnel in connection with the elimination of strategic nuclear weapons from December 5, 1993. As the implementation agreement was concluded, the parties realized that the process of recycling intercontinental ballistic missiles would provide for the removal of rocket fuel and its further processing by the only environmentally safe way for Ukraine, i.e. by means of a hydride that was fully consistent with the provisions of article 1 of the Treaty of 23 October 93 and its further conversion into an emulsion-explosion device, for which the construction of a solid rocket fuel disposal facility was envisaged at the Pavlovgrad chemical plant. The Ukrainian-American cooperation was fruitful and responsible, but in May 2003, despite the validity of the agreement of October 25, 93, the US side unilaterally declared the end of the financial provision for the further process of creating this body. This put at risk, which is still in place, Ukraine's international obligations to eliminate strategic weapons and the US-USA treaty to reduce and limit strategic offensive weapons in the 91st year, under which Ukraine is working to eliminate solid rocket fuel from intercontinental ballistic missiles of RS-22. Ukraine’s proposals on acceptable options for timely solutions to the problem and completion of existing projects with a view to fully implementing the contractual obligations undertaken by the parties have only been partially settled. During this time, the situation with the storage of untreated rocket fuel, which is the second level of danger component after nuclear explosion, has gradually become extremely unsatisfactory and has become a threat to both environmental and technological consequences. This has led to a sharp rise in social tension, as evidenced by the numerous public and local authorities’ appeals to the leadership of the state. Under the conditions laid down, we must note that so far there is no financing for the US of the missile fuel disposal process. The implementation of this problem, in our view, will be in line with the principles of the strategic partnership between Ukraine and the United States and will meet the full implementation of the commitments made by the parties to cooperate in the elimination of nuclear weapons in Ukraine. In view of what has been said, the Supreme Council of Ukraine calls on the Congress of the United States of America to resolve the issue of financing in scope, which will allow for the rapid completion of the disposal of rocket fuel and the implementation of an entire set of measures aimed at the elimination of nuclear weapons in Ukraine, in accordance with the October 25, 1993, agreement. Colleagues, the draft decree provides for two points: to approve the appeal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the US Congress. [[added]] The other one. To the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, correct the text of the appeal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Congress of the United States of America. The leaders of all five factions of our parliament were supported. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u15	Thank you, Ivan Grigorovich. Dear colleagues, according to the agreement of all faction leaders, I am putting to the vote without discussion draft Decree No. 4310 on the appeal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Congress of the United States of America. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:42:33]] For 379 Decision taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 139, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko” – 146, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” – 48, Communists – 27, “Clock of Lithuania” – 19. The next issue of the agenda would be the creation of a temporary special commission to draft bills to amend the Constitution of Ukraine. But since this issue is not ready to be considered, there are no corresponding proposals from parliamentary factions, we will not be considering it today. In 17 minutes, we have scheduled a speech by Hans Hert Piottering, President of the European Parliament. And now we can move on to other issues of the order of the day. If there's no objection, we can now consider the question of assigning out-of-order local choices so that we don't break up later. Is there no objection? Announcing the appointment of out - of - turn local elections. Report by Upper Sergey Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u16	Ladies and gentlemen of the national council, Your Honor, the constituencies! At its meeting on April 1, 2009, the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government discussed the question of the appointment of 12 rural and four village heads in connection with the early suspension of these heads, as well as the question of the appointment of alternate deputies of the Orlova Rural Council of the Dnipropetrov district in connection with the failure of the village council to resolve the issues raised to its name. With regard to the appointment of out - of - turn rural, village - head elections. We have 11 cases on a personal statement of 8 of them being village heads and 3 village heads. Three cases are in the event of death, two village heads and one village head. One case in connection with the judgment of a court of law that had already taken effect, as well as one case in the Council’s decision. With regard to the appointment of state-of-the-art members of the Orlov Rural Council of the Dnipropetrov region. The situation is fully studied, the fact is that as early as 2006, this council was more loyal to the end of the mandate of the council. But the head appealed to the court, and all the trials to this day have been completed, the courts have resumed it, but after that the council is barely functioning. If you say so, from August of the month until then the council is not working. Therefore, there is good reason for the selection of out - of - turn elections. The committee considered everything carefully, all documents submitted in accordance with the legislation. The Administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in connection with local authorities, believes that it is appropriate to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine appoint out of turn local elections in these cases. After considering all the questions about the appointment of out-of-court local elections, the Committee decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine appoint these out-of-office local elections on Sunday, June 14, 2009, by making appropriate decisions. However, considering that these draft decrees were not voted on in the session hall on time, we suggest that the date of the election be changed to 21 June 2009. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, we move to a vote on each of the draft decrees. I'm betting on the vote on the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the appointment of the Billinian Rural Head election in turn. [[Number 4202]] [[Bilin Village Council of Volodymyr Wallin Region]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[10:47:36]] For-360 Decision taken. I'm voting on the draft Order on the appointment of the successive elections of the Pukovsky Rural Head. [[Pukov rural council of the region of Rogatin, Ivano-Frankiv]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[10:48:05]] For 363 Decision taken. The draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the appointment of consecutive elections of the Liman Rural Head is put to the vote. [[Liman Village Council of the Lugansk Region]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[10:48:34]] For 379 Decision taken. A draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the appointment of the Red Ukraine head election is put to the vote. [[Red-Ukrainian Rural Council of the Berezan region of Mikolai region]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[10:49:02]] For 381 Decision taken. The draft Decree 4302-4 on the appointment of the Pochapinski Rural Head in turn is put to the vote. [[Cemerovecki village council of the district of Hmmelnitsk]] I'd like to make a statement. [[10:49:31]] For 370. Decision taken. The draft Decree No. 4302-5 on the appointment of consecutive elections of the Cupid Rural Head shall be put to the vote. [[The Coal Council of Corostene Region of the Žitomir Region]] I'd like to make a statement. [[10:49:59]] For 370. Decision taken. It's about voting on the draft Decree 4302-6 on the appointment of the extra-curricular head. [[Zorov Rural Overcrowding Council of the Ternopil Region]] I'd like to make a statement. [[10:50:28]] For 379 Decision taken. The draft Decree 4302-7 on the appointment of the successive elections of the Migalkovsky Rural Head is put to the vote. [[Migalkow village council of the Borodian district of Kyiv region]] I'd like to make a statement. [[10:50:56]] For 382 Decision taken. There is a draft decision No. 4302-8 on the appointment of the next election of the Velikołekowska Rural Head. [[Velikołkowska Village Council of the Zakarpatsk Region]] Please vote. [[10:51:29]] For 372 Decision taken. The draft Decree 4302-9 on the appointment of non-sequential elections of the Green Balkan Rural Head is put to the vote. [[Green Balkan Rural Council of Shiroki District of Dnipropetrovsk Region]] Please vote. [[10:52:03]] For 240 Decision taken. The draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Decree No. 4302-10 on the appointment of the Red-Coladinian head in turn. [[Krasnokoladin village council of Talalaiiv district of Chernigiv region]] Please vote. [[10:52:38]] For 375 Decision taken. The draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine 4302-11 on the appointment of the successive elections of the Rodakov Village Head is put to the vote. [[Rodakow village council of the Slavanoserby region of Lugansk Region]] Please vote. [[10:53:12]] For 213 The decision is not taken. The draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine 4302-12 on the appointment of successive elections of the Kodrian Village Head is put to the vote. [[Kodrian Village Council of Makarov District of Kyiv Region]] Please vote. [[10:53:45]] For 401 Decision taken. The draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Decree No. 4302-13 on the appointment of the successive elections of the Radulski Village Head shall be put to the vote. [[Radulska Village Council of the Ripkin district of Chernigiv region]] Please vote. [[10:54:18]] For 395 Decision taken. The draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Decree No. 4302-14 on the appointment of the successive elections of the village head of Elizabeth. [[Elizavetgrad Village Council of the region of Kirovograd]] Please vote. [[10:54:53]] For 385 Decision taken. I'm betting on a draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Decree No. 4302-15 on the appointment of state-of-the-art deputies of the Orlov Rural Council. [[Orlova Rural Council of the Dnipropetrov region]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[10:55:27]] For 383 Decision taken. The draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Decree No. 4302-16 on the appointment of the successive elections of the Jarowska Rural Head is put to the vote. [[Jarov village council of Tarutin district of Odessa]] [[10:56:03]] For 393 Decision taken. The question of the appointment of the early elections is discussed. While we have a few more minutes, the draft Parliamentary Hearing Regulation on "Contemporary state and prospects for agriculture and the food industry of Ukraine" is under consideration. Michael Volodymyrovich the Jury will report. Ribuk Sergey Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u18	Dear colleagues, most of you have participated in parliamentary hearings about the current state of agriculture, the food industry. On behalf of the Committee on Agricultural Policy, land relations have worked out all the proposals made at these parliamentary hearings and has made an appropriate draft decision for your consideration. It's on your hands. I ask you to vote with a view to achieving those positions that have led us to agrarians and national MPs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u19	Thank you, Sergey Mikolayovich. I would like to say that this project is presented by a hearing committee and provides three points: to endorse Parliamentary hearing recommendations on the subject: “Contemporary status and prospects for the development of Ukraine’s agriculture and food industry”, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine by December 1st 2009 to inform the Supreme Council of the state of implementation of this decision and to monitor the implementation of this decision and to place it on the Committee of the Supreme Council on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations. Is there a need to discuss a draft decision? Nobody insists? I am voting on the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Decree No. 4242 on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on “Contemporary status and prospects for the development of Ukraine’s agriculture and food industry”. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:59:11]] For 379 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u20	Dear national deputies, dear colleagues! At our meeting, the President of the European Parliament, Mr. Piottering, who is in Ukraine today with an official visit. Ladies and gentlemen, let's welcome the head of the European Parliament. [[Applause]] And I invite Mr. Piottering, President of the European Parliament, to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u21	It is my great honour and pleasure to address the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the first time today as President of the European Parliament. [[Applause]] With an extremely warm feeling, I appeal to you, to the democratically elected representatives of Ukrainian citizens. It is a pleasure to contact you in this historic hall, which witnessed remarkable events: the democratic changes of Ukraine at the end of 2004. These events, known in the history textbooks as the "orange revolution", were not only a turning point in Ukrainian history. Can you hear me? Do You Have a Translation? Okay, great. What, someone doesn't have a translation? I want to do it again then. With an extremely warm feeling, I am addressing you, the democratically elected representatives of Ukrainian citizens. I am pleased to address you in this historic hall, which is witnessing remarkable events: the democratic changes of Ukraine at the end of 2004. These events, known in the history textbooks as the "orange revolution", are not only a turning point in Ukrainian history – they have also started a new era of relations between Ukraine and the European Union, which characterizes it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u22	Dear colleagues, the first channel there, you have a translation. May I have your attention, please? Calm down, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u23	Also began a new era of relations between Ukraine and the European Union. This relationship between Ukraine and the European Union is characterized by a closer political association and economic integration. They are strengthened by the European heritage of Europe and Ukraine and are cemented by our common desire to uphold values such as democracy, human rights and the rule of law. Allow me now to convey to you the warmest greetings from my colleagues in the European Parliament. This is the only European institution that is directly chosen, representing more than 500 million citizens of the European Union. The European Parliament has always been a true friend of Ukraine and has always supported Ukraine's efforts to support democratic and market reforms. Of course, Ukraine is a strategically important neighbour to the European Union, the population of Ukraine, size, resources, and geographical position make Ukraine a significant regional factor. This has become even more important since the recent geographical expansion of the European Union, the strengthening of political and commercial ties between the European Union and the opening up of new opportunities for cooperation in energy, transport, customs and other matters. We depend on each other now, more than ever. The relationship between Ukraine and the European Union is extremely dynamic, the deepest and most ambitious in the entire region. I'll even tell you more, I think they're an inspired example for other countries. And so it's no coincidence that Ukraine is the first country in the region with which the European Union is currently negotiating an associated agreement and this agreement will be quite ambitious. Not only will this agreement deepen economic integration, but it not only foresees the creation of a free trade zone, but also the prospect of a visa-free regime. It also offers significant and expected benefits to Ukrainian citizens. This treaty greatly strengthens the political association between Ukraine and the European Union. The Eastern Partnership, which will officially be declared in Prague on May 7, will bring our relationship closer and take a step forward, not only in our bilateral relations but also in multilateral cooperation in the region. I firmly believe that Ukraine, with its size and strategic importance, will be a positive leader among the Eastern countries, actively and constructively taking part in this new initiative, the new policy. Moreover, our parliaments, the European Parliament and the Supreme Council are increasingly playing a role in bringing our societies closer together. Dearly beloved parliamentarians, dear colleagues, our work, our tasks are extremely important. And I'm sure that if we add our votes to the actions of our government, it makes a big difference. In particular, I would like to welcome the work of the Committee on Cooperation between the European Union and Ukraine, which brings the members of the European Parliament closer to the members of the Supreme Council. This committee has made significant progress in relations and relations between Ukraine and the European Union. Moreover, the new Parliamentary Assembly for Relations between Neighbouring Countries, called the Euronist, will be established after the European Parliament elections in June. It will create a new dimension for the parliamentary dialogue, to exchange and enable our parliament to use another tool to strengthen our relations, and to develop good neighbourly relations between all countries in the region. Ladies and gentlemen, my dear colleagues, the foundations of our relationship usually have roots in prosperity, security and stability on the European continent. However, in these difficult times, in these times of crisis, not only the economic downturn but also the enormous challenges of energy security and climate change. Since August 2008, after the war between Russia and Georgia, and after the gas conflict between Russia and Ukraine, in January, we can't take words like stability and security seriously. It is in Ukraine in recent years, in recent months, weeks, even days, that we see a rather complex combination of economic problems as well as political crises and energy security issues. First of all, the global financial crisis has struck Ukraine tremendously, and we are very concerned about the deepening economic downturn in Ukraine in the European Union. However, the decisions of the Ukrainian Government and Parliament to provide substantial financial support from the International Monetary Fund must be based on the political will and courage of the Ukrainian leaders in order to ensure that all serious steps are taken to implement the necessary reforms, to stimulate the economy, to reduce budget deficits, to restructure the banking system and to restore confidence in the financial system, as well as to improve business and investment climate. International stability is also extremely important, it is a matter of trust, it is a matter of fulfilling common obligations. Implementation of reforms is not a road with a unilateral movement and, of course, Parliament will play an extremely serious role here. As we saw at the big 20 in London a few days ago, our joint statement, our joint task as members of the international community, is to stabilise the international financial system, as well as to implement reforms that will reduce the risk of future instability and crisis. We all need to work together to strengthen national and international institutions, those responsible for financial governance, and we need to raise the responsibility of credit agencies, strengthen transparency in international financial markets. We need to support the principles of the so-called economy of the social market, as well as the principles of fair competition and transparent rules, because. There's more to the crisis. It is important that we meet today after a very serious gas conflict between Russia and Ukraine in January, which has led to serious problems in supplying gas to the European market and left millions of citizens in Bulgaria and Slovakia without heat, without hot water in winter temperatures. Of course, this gas crisis has caused serious concern in the European Union, which has led the European Union to now review all energy policy and seriously see the creation of a common energy market, to strengthen reliable external energy policy, and to diversify energy sources. This crisis has, of course, highlighted the key role of Ukraine in ensuring the energy security of the European Union and in ensuring the continued transit of gas to European Union suppliers. And she stressed that Ukraine should control its energy independence, which is directly linked to political stability and prosperity. Ladies and gentlemen, the time has come for the European Union and Ukraine to develop a common energy security strategy based on energy charter principles, such as openness, transparency and reciprocity related to market access, infrastructure and investment. We are looking at and learning from past mistakes, past energy crises, we must also draw conclusions from these mistakes to prevent similar crises and similar conflicts between Russia and Ukraine in the future. We need to find a long-term solution for uninterrupted energy supply in the markets of the European Union. The European Union as the main energy supplier, the energy consumer can't just look at this situation, we have to engage more actively, we have to diversify our energy source and achieve higher energy security in the region. In this regard, a recent conference on investment in the restoration and modernization of the Ukrainian gas transport system was organized by the European Commission and the Government of Ukraine on March 23, 2009. This was an extremely important step. We are meeting with you today amid a rather serious internal political instability in Ukraine. Of course, the political crisis that arises from time to time in the democratic system is, in principle, a norm, but that's why Ukrainian, young, dynamic and pluralistic democracy is not an exception. However, long and constant political instability is a serious problem for any country, and it greatly releases, slows down the process of development of the necessary reforms. I'm not speaking here as a professor speaking in front of you and reading a lecture, I'm speaking in front of you as a true friend of Ukraine, I'm speaking on behalf of your friends in the European Union who want the best in Ukraine. We are absolutely confident that the Ukrainian nation deserves to live in a stable, prosperous, and very successful country. I would like to encourage all the political leaders of your country to go over internal political differences and work together to ensure the country's long-term political stability. Of course, any serious political crisis does not have fast drugs that can cure it. But these drugs exist and have been used successfully in other European countries. My dear colleagues, it is extremely important for Ukraine to carry out a genuine constitutional reform that will create a serious system of distribution of competence between all branches of government on the basis of a recommendation from the Venice Commission. Strengthening the rule of law in the implementation of judicial reform and the independence of judges are also important steps. Finally, strengthening the political party system, separating business from politics, and fighting corruption, transparency and accountability of government institutions are in the best interests of Ukraine. My dear fellow parliamentarians. Of course, in the light of political complexity and problems, economic complexity, and in the context of regional and international affairs, we in the European Parliament are confident that the relationship between the European Union and Ukraine should be greatly strengthened. Without a doubt, Ukraine's stronger involvement in relations with the European Union will lead to stability in the region and will give Ukraine the necessary support in its efforts to strengthen the economy, strengthen the stability of the political system and emphasize Ukraine's national unity. Moreover, Ukraine's closer cooperation with the European Union will play a very important role in mobilizing not only material and political resources, but also human resources in Ukraine, and will lead the country to a real, pluralistic democracy, to a functional market, socio-market economy, to a free and open society. This should be our common goal, because a stable, secure, democratic Ukraine means a stable and secure Europe. Let me add, my colleagues, that solidarity is not empty words for the European Union and for the European Parliament. Ukraine can rely on us when it comes to protecting our sovereignty. I mean the sovereign freedom to choose relations with international and regional organizations. We are also ready to solve problems in the past. For example, I had the opportunity and opportunity to speak today about the need to remember, to honor the tragedy of the Holocaust. And the European Parliament adopted a resolution in this respect at the end of October 2008. In this context, I can only regret that our neighbours, and your Russian neighbours have not yet done so with regard to the crimes of the Stalinese regime. Last Thursday, April 2, the European Parliament adopted a large majority of resolutions condemning totalitarian regimes and systems of the 20th century -- national socialism and communism. This resolution states: “The ultimate goal of assessing the crimes of communist-totalitarian regimes is the reconciliation that can be achieved by taking responsibility. There will be a request for an exit, and there will be a moral recovery. The European Parliament resolution has probably been adopted unanimously, and you know how difficult it is to accept something unanimously in the European Parliament. This reconciliation and cooperation should be based on memory and truth. A summit was held yesterday between the European Union and the United States in Prague. The president of the United States, Barack Obama, expressed the need for good relations with Russia. My dear colleagues, let us work with Russia on the basis of human rights, democracy and the rule of law. This is our vision of the future European continent in the 21st century. My dear colleagues, we have common challenges, and so I want to say to the Ukrainian nation unanimously: you are not alone, we are all in one Europe, we are united in one vision, we have common roots, we have common values, we have common principles of solidarity. I am absolutely confident that we can meet these challenges together, and this will mean that we will be united, not divided. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, the first channel, that's where your translation goes. May I have your attention, please? Calm down, please! Dear colleagues! Now let's continue our work.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u25	Dear colleagues, we continue our work. The Ukrainian Act on the State Property Fund of Ukraine, with proposals from the President of Ukraine, is being announced for consideration. Reported to Alexander Vitaliyovich, First Deputy Head of the Ukrainian Secretary of the Republic of Ukraine. Alexander Vitaliyovich, please come to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u26	Dear Lord Chairman! Dear National Deputies! The President of Ukraine did not sign the Law on the State Property Fund of Ukraine, adopted by the Supreme Council on 4 February 2009, since it does not take into account the President's comments made earlier. There are four such observations for today. The first and most principled of them. The President of Ukraine has repeatedly expressed his principle of position on the status of the Ukrainian State Property Fund. In particular, as the Head of State pointed out, the status of the Fund should be defined in view of its position as a state body with special status in a system separately defined by the Constitution of State Organs. Instead, the so - called State Property Fund of Ukraine is defined as a government authority with special status. In accordance with article 6 of the Ukrainian Constitution, the state authority in Ukraine is exercised on the basis of its division into legislative, executive, and court. At the same time, according to the Basic Law of the State, the only body of legislative authority in Ukraine is Parliament, justice is exercised exclusively by courts, the delegation of the functions of courts to other bodies is prohibited. Then, according to the Constitution, the State Property Fund of Ukraine could not belong to the two branches of government, since it would be a direct violation of the Basic Law of the State. On the next effort of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to grant the State Property Fund the status of the State Authority and to subordinate it to the Cabinet of Ministers, it is evident, in addition to the above, that the law that has come to the signature is established: first, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine directs and coordinates the activities of the Fund, i.e. it exercises the powers that the Government carries out under article 116, paragraph 9, of the Constitution of Ukraine with regard to the executive authorities; secondly, the proposals to improve the legislation on the issue that the Fund's competences are solely assigned to the Cabinet of Ministers; and thirdly, the Cabinet of the Ministers of Ukraine for the submission of the Prime Minister of Ukraine's proposals for the head of the Fund. I would like to remind you that this power of government is provided for in article 22, paragraph 3, 4 of section 9, of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, with regard to the first deputies, the deputy ministers, the heads of other central executives, and it is carried out by the government for the appointment of the respective ministers, not the Prime Minister. The second observation relates to the following. Article 1 of the Act, which is under consideration, is defined by the Ukrainian State Property Fund, which implements public policy, in particular in the area of public property management, including article 7 of the Act, which defines the functions of the Ukrainian State Property Fund in the area of public property management, the Fund carries out such functions in accordance with the Ukrainian Act on the administration of public property. Then, in determining the authority of the foundation for the administration of public property, a special Ukrainian Act on the administration of public property should be fundamental. However, article 2 of the law, which came upon the signature, defines the task of a fund that is not provided for by the Ukrainian Law on the Management of Objects of State Property, such as the implementation of State policy on the administration of public property, the use and alienation of state property, public policy on the administration of corporate rights, and so on. This creates a conflict of norms and can lead to disagreements and contradictions in their application. Note three. Those who do not comply with the Constitution of the State are also the provisions of the law that are being considered regarding the release from office of head of the State Property Fund. In particular, the law provides a comprehensive list of the grounds for the dismissal of the head of the Ukrainian State Property Fund. This limits the constitutional powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, because under the Basic Law, the Supreme Council's powers of discharge from the post of head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine are unlimited for any reason. In addition, the stated Constitution of Ukraine requires the submission of the Prime Minister of Ukraine only if the head of the fund is appointed, but no such submission is allowed for any reason for his release. As for the appointment and dismissal of the first deputy, the deputy head of the Fund, it follows that the existing practice of appointing deputy heads of other government bodies is legally appropriate to establish an order whereby the appointment and dismissal of such positions are carried out by the head of the National Property Fund of Ukraine. And finally, the fourth point. As already noted, in accordance with article 5, paragraph 8, of the Act, which is under review, the Fund, on the basis of a decision of a court that has gained legal power and has not been charged with established legislation, in the order established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, decides to suspend the privatization of held property. Taking into account the actions directly related to the acquisition of property rights by legal persons of citizens, following the provisions of the Constitution of Ukraine, by which the State guarantees the protection of the rights of all property subjects, their equality before the law, and the right of private property are acquired in accordance with the law. Thus, in order to avoid abuses in this area, it would be necessary for the law to provide for the aforementioned order. Please consider these comments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u27	Thank you, Alexander Vitaliovich, please sit down. Please welcome Alexander Mikolaiovich Bondar to the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u28	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies! I would ask for attention, which is very important to Ukraine's law, and no one listens to what they report here. People's deputies, the Law on the State Property Fund of Ukraine was adopted by the previous call of the Supreme Council on 29 May 2007. Its position is defined by the legal basis for the activities of the Fund, its status, functions, authority and order of execution. The President of Ukraine, using his veto power, returned the prescribed law to the Supreme Council with his proposals. On February 4, 2009, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted a newly defined law, taking into account all the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. The decision was voted on by all the factions of the Supreme Council without exception, and it won 370 votes. However, on February 20, 2009, the President applied the veto, returned to the Supreme Council the project with four proposals. In general, the President's proposals to the Fund Act do not fully meet the requirements of article 94, part 2, of the Constitution, according to which they should be not only well-founded but also clearly formulated, in particular, paragraphs 1, 2 and 4 of the President's proposals, do not contain any specific wording as to what the relevant legal rules of the law should look like, but are set out as certain wishes. The absence of clearly defined specific rules at this time makes it impossible to take the President's opinion properly into account. Moreover, as stated in the conclusion of the Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in this way the President's proposal cannot actually be put to the vote, because if they are supported by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, they cannot be implemented under this law. I address Mikhail Vasilovich, Mikhail Vasilovich! I'm addressing your faction. Once again, the Supreme Council Committee was unable to formulate the President's proposals in the text of the law, because they were not clearly formulated. Last time we were with you, all the factions, we supported all the President's proposals and voted in favour of this law. In view of this, the Supreme Council Committee has no opportunity to propose a different decision to the Supreme Council than to overcome the President's veto. We cannot formulate proposals that agree with the President's proposals because they are not formulated. So we suggest that the Supreme Council accept, reject these Presidential proposals, redefined and approved by February 4, 2009, two thirds of the Supreme Council's constitutional composition. But given that the Party of Regions has changed its decision and is not going to vote for any decision under this law, we have no choice. We're going to the Supreme Council to postpone the consideration of this bill, send it to the committee for further work, and we're going to hold consultations and look for another way out of this situation. If we do not now vote on the President's veto, the law will be repealed and we will in fact lose the possibility of having a law on the holding fund in the Supreme Council. So I ask Parliament once again to vote on this decision, to postpone the bill not to be sent to the Economic Policy Committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u29	Thank you, Alexander Mikolayovich. We move on to the vote on the proposals of the President of Ukraine. First President of Ukraine's proposal. Article 2, in particular paragraphs one and two of the first part, article six, paragraph five of the first article, align eight with the Basic Law of Ukraine on the administration of public property. Please be determined on this proposal by the President of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u30	I'd like to say no. Vote. [[11:35:14]] For-16
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u31	For –16. The President's proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u32	You can make an offer.?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u33	It is the President's second proposal that the status of the Fund should be determined by reference to its place as a state body with special status in a system separately defined by the Constitution of Ukraine of State Organs, and I ask you to be determined on this proposal by the President of Ukraine. [[11:35:50.]] For-13. The proposal by the President of Ukraine is not supported. President of Ukraine's third proposal. Instead of determining how to make a decision to stop privatization and change the stock placement plan by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to provide for its definition by law, since this directly relates to the acquisition of ownership by legal persons and citizens by virtue of the provisions of the Constitution under which the State protects the rights of all property entities, their equality before the law, the rights of private property are acquired in accordance with the law of Ukraine. This proposal by the President of Ukraine, which the committee proposes to reject, is based on the vote on the support and proposals of the President of Ukraine. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:36:55]] For the 15th. The President's proposal is not supported. The fourth sentence of the President of Ukraine is put to the vote. A comprehensive list of the grounds for the dismissal of the head of the National Property Fund of Ukraine limits the constitutional powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The committee also proposes to reject, vote, and support the proposal of the President of Ukraine. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:37:30.]] For-13. The decision is not taken. The President's proposal is not supported. The proposal of the President of Ukraine's veto committee on the Ukrainian Act on the State Property Fund of Ukraine is put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:38:05]] For 222 The decision is not taken. Veto's not overtaken. The law has been revoked. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislation on Rent Relations, with proposals by the President of Ukraine, is being announced for consideration. Reported to Alexander Vitaliyovich, First Deputy Head of the Ukrainian Secretary of the Republic of Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u34	The Honourable Head, honourable national deputies, adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 19 February 2009, cannot be signed by the President of Ukraine on the basis of these two important circumstances. The first, according to the proposed law, changes to part seven, article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on State and Municipal Property Rental, is determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Thus, the law limits the authorization of the owner of municipal property, which is the material basis of local self - government. This does not correspond to the constitutional guarantees of local self-government, to the right of the territorial community itself, within the framework of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to resolve matters of local importance. It is then proposed that paragraph 21 of paragraph 6 of paragraph 2 be supplemented by the words “for objects owned by the State, the Cabinet of Ministers, the bodies designated by the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, for objects belonging to the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local self-government authorities for objects held in communal property”. As such, restrictions on local self - government rights should be excluded and reference should be made to the approval of the local self - government authorities of the proportion of rent distribution for municipal property objects solely according to the methodology determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. And a second observation. In the context of the economic and financial crisis, it is not possible for the President to support the provision of a law that excludes from the Law on State and Municipal Rental, Part 4 of Article 19 on the possibility of granting rentable benefits to renters of objects of significant social importance. It is considered appropriate to preserve the possibility of granting the specified benefits and then to set out the appropriate standard in such a way as: the renter’s renter’s rentable benefits, the arrangement and the conditions for the granting of these benefits are established by: the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for State-owned objects; the authorities authorized by the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Crimea; the local self-government authorities for property belonging to the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u35	Thank you, Alexander Mikolayovich. Have a seat, please. A report from the committee, Alexander Mikolaiovich Bondar, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u36	Alexander Volodymyrovich, I would still ask that we go back to the previous question and vote on the committee's proposal, send it to the committee to work on the President's proposal. This is the norm in the Rules. Why didn't you put the matter to the vote? What? Yes! I bugged him!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u37	Alexander Mikolaiovich, will you do the report or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u38	Yes! There's a decision I've made. Yes, then I'll report the Rent Act, although we, the law very much needed for the state, are just falling off for unknown reasons right now. With regard to the Act on Amendments to Act on Rent Relations. Last time all the factions of Parliament, there were 406 votes, voted in second reading and in general. In fact, the President of Ukraine made two amendments concerning two points. The first is that the order of the lease competition is established not only by the Cabinet of Ministers but also at the level of the local authorities by the appropriate local authorities, it is meant in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and in the local authorities. We think it's a mistake. It will lead to a variety of leases throughout Ukraine, abuse at the local level, and no case at all where the order of the competitions is regulated in Kabmin, there is no norm for them to be regulated in parallel with the local authorities. The same applies to the third amendment, which provides for renting benefits, is defined not only at the level of the Cabinet of Ministers for certain activities but also at the level of local authorities. Again, in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and local governments. Well, imagine the situation in Kiev, if the Kiev City Administration is now starting to set its approach to granting social benefits on rent. What will we come to? Of course, this should be determined by a single body, it should be in all areas, regions of the one order, and therefore we are the three amendments of the President's Committee on Economic Policy to the contrary. So the committee's decision by 300 votes to reject the president's amendments and to confirm this bill, which I say again, was voted 406 votes by the national deputies to confirm it by two thirds of Parliament's votes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u39	Thank you, Alexander Mikolayovich. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, you have an offer from the committee in a comparative table. I'm betting on the vote for the President of Ukraine's first proposal. The committee recommends that it be rejected. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:45:05]] For the 15th. The President's proposal is not supported. I'm betting on a second motion by the President of Ukraine, which the committee is also proposing to reject. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:45:29]] For-37 The president's second proposal is not supported. I'm betting on a third motion from the President of Ukraine. The committee also proposes to reject. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:45:55]] For -14 The decision is not taken. Thus, the proposals of the President of Ukraine are not supported by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I am voting on a proposal by the pro-vote committee to overcome the veto under Law 0103 on the introduction of some of the Ukrainian legislation on lease relations. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:46:32]] For the 220. The decision is not taken, the veto is not over, the law is overturned. The Ukrainian Act "On the System of Assembly and Accounting for the Only Social Contribution to a Generally Compulsory State Social Insurance" No. 0924 is announced for consideration. Reportedly, Alexander Vitaliyovich is the first deputy head of the Ukrainian Presidential Secretariat.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u40	Thank you. The President-in-Office of Ukraine signed the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 15 January 2009 with the Ukrainian Act on "On a system of assembly and the calculation of the sole social contribution to the general public social insurance obligation", which proposes to determine the basic principles of the functioning of the assembly system, the calculation of the single social contribution to the general public social insurance, the conditions and the manner in which the payment and payment of the single social contribution and the authorization of the bodies responsible for the administration of its assembly and the treatment was made. Without denying the relevance and implementation of an effective system of compulsory state social insurance, the President cannot sign the law, since its position is a source of attention, including conceptuality. These remarks are very rich, and given that there is little time for the speech, I will stop at the main ones. Note first. The law provides for the concept of the administration of the assembly system and the calculation of the sole social contribution. A tripartite council in the field of compulsory public social insurance and social insurance has been set up to manage this system. A tripartite council in the area of compulsory public social insurance relies on the administration of the congregation system and the calculation of the only social contribution. The tripartite council consists of 15 representatives of the State, the insured persons and employers who are appointed, from among the members of the governments of the general government social insurance funds, who continue to serve as members of the governments of the respective funds during their stay on the tripartite council. [[I'm paying attention to you.]] Such a mechanism of appointment, election, delegation of members of the Tripartite Council will lead to conflicts of interest, their biased attitude when taken by a tripartite council on matters related to its authority. The other one. Under the law of implementation of the Tripartite Council, the Social Insurance Administration, which at the same time performs the functions of the Executive Directorate of the General Compulsory State Pension Insurance Fund, is the legal successor of the Pension Fund, provides the administration of the Assembly and the calculation of a single social contribution, which includes monitoring the payment of a single social contribution, the application of the sanctions defined by law, and is a permanent act, I would like to stress this by the joint executive body of the general government social insurance funds. At the same time, the concept of the law provides for the preservation of existing executive bodies of governments, foundations of compulsory social security. Under such circumstances, the administration of social insurance, its territorial authorities, and other organs is another surplus that will be paid on the basis of incomes from compulsory government social insurance. In addition, such a radical system of social management. A change in the social insurance management system under the State's budget of the Pension Fund of Ukraine may result in the indemnity of pension payments to citizens, resulting in violations of citizens' constitutional rights to social protection and non-deserving of these rights. The third observation refers to the deadlines for the introduction of new institutions. Under the law, the National Pension Insurance Fund is due to be established by July 1, 2009, and the Administration by September 1, 2009. Since October 1, 2009, the Social Insurance Administration and its territorial authorities have carried out the functions of the Executive Directorate of the General Government Pension Insurance Fund and its territorial authorities, and only from October 1 to December 1st 2009 will the transfer from the Pension Fund of Ukraine to the National National Pension Insurance Fund. Thus, since October 1, 2009, the Social Insurance Administration has been required to provide pensions, but it will receive organizational financial opportunities only from December 1, 2009. The following observation refers to individual categories of people who will have to pay their pension. Yes, since the entry into force of the law on the sole social contribution and the proportion of its distribution by type of compulsory public social insurance as a single social contribution, the provisions of the Law on the general government pension insurance of payers such as military units and money providers, assistance to military personnel, parents of foster homes of the family type, foster parents are considered to be valid. However, among the laws that came upon him. payers of the only social contribution of categories such as military units, money-paying authorities, aid to military personnel, parents of foster homes of the family type, foster parents are absent. This could lead to pensions being assigned to them in the same order as any person who does not have a minimum amount of insurance. There are a number of laws that are subject to changes and additions in the law, namely the National Social Insurance Act, the Banks and Banking Act, which cannot be supported. I will draw your attention to another observation that the President has made regarding the amendments to the Law on Accounting and Financial Reporting in Ukraine, which are in no way related to the subject matter of legal regulation of the law under consideration. These include the introduction of rules for the approval of the financial and other reporting of the methodological commission on reporting by a new body with an indefinite status, whose decision will be mandatory for execution, and which will operate within the limits and procedures defined by the regulations that the methodological commission itself approves. Nor can it be left out that an organ that is not a body of executive authority by law is given non-legislative powers by its legal nature. The president requests that these observations be considered and that the law be redrafted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u41	Thank you, Alexander Vitaliovich. A report from the committee of Víziowski Volodymyr Mikhajlovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u42	“Our Ukraine”, the parliamentary group “For Ukraine!” I would like to express my position in a more public and understandable way, because the details were previously brought to this room. What we're talking about: probably the kind of apheristic adoption of the bill, as was the law passed in this Supreme Council at number 0924, the civilized world has not seen. The Law, which was introduced by the minister of social policy and the Papiev work, and the law that the minister of social policy and work reported from this rostrum, but already the shadowy government of Yanukovich, Mikhailo Papiev, made, vary dramatically. On the way between the second reading of it in our profile committee and the report here in the Supreme Council, there were 36 amendments along the way. You should know this, gentlemen of parliament: 36 amendments may appear along the way from the committee to this rostrum. But, thank God, the President was on the watch for the law and the Constitution, and he took the veto on this bill. Farther along we have in the Social Policy and Work Committee, there have been scandals, to say the least, that half of the committee have had to lie in the hospital to disagree with those positions that have not been submitted by a national MP and have not been signed by a national MP. Instead, some business interests of the various factions in this room have led to the realization that today it is clear that overcoming 300, overcoming the President's veto, and taking 300 votes in this room is not possible and that they have come to a seemingly agreed position, that this bill should be returned to the Committee on Social Policy and Work. I'm addressing the National Deputies, and please don't abuse our committee. Such large sums of money have never been passed through our committee, and representatives of the Chamber of Tenders have never appeared on our committee. Now they're all sitting on our committee. Now they are all giving us very serious strong advice as to how to warm our pockets. And the situation is simple, because of four committees, because of the four funds that the entrepreneur is now paying separately, it's not going to be much, it's not going to be 200 billion dollars a year. Offer: Put it in one office. And if you actually take one percent for that kind of service, it's going to be 2 billion. Two billion dollars a year. It is possible to provide a decent life for not one political power for the distant future. That's why there is today, I report a decree that, unfortunately, has been adopted by the Committee on Social Work and Work by its majority and invites you to direct it to work on the committee, which, of course, will give us 30 days to shake our committee. And there's a second, I'm immediately the second part of the draft ruling that's registered to me personally, 0924-P1, to return, to accept the President's proposal and to reject it as a whole. This position is on the committee and I immediately reported on the second decision of 0924-P1 to direct it to the basket. You have to decide which decision to make. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u43	Wait a minute. Please come back to the rostrum. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, please state clearly what was the decision of the committee on this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u44	Once again, I'm going to rephrase the committee's decision, which is given out just like my alternative. Now, the decision of the committee: “To entrust the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine with the issue of social policy and work to amend the Law on the System of Assembly and the calculation of the single social contribution to the general public social insurance”, No. 0924, taking into account the proposals made by subjects of the right to legislative initiative and to re-submit it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine.” It's a 30-day rule.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u45	Thank you, sit down, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u46	And my second alternative, in the second part, in the first part, is to accept the President's proposals and reject the law as a whole. The second item, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, by 15 September 2009, to develop and submit a new draft law on the social system of the assembly and the calculation of the only social contribution to the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u47	Have a seat, please. Alexander Vitaliyovich, the question to you is, is this a proposal that the president's proposal to reject the law as a whole has been made? Please turn on Alexandra Vitaliovich Slapak’s microphone. The question to you is, now the committee is speaking and proposing to hear the president's proposal to reject the law as a whole. Did the President of Ukraine make such an offer? [[B in m in s a l in]] Please turn on the microphone of Slapak Alexander Vitaliovich. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! Vizierski’s microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u48	Dear fellow national MPs! With regard to the interpretation of this rule of law, there was an official appeal from our committee to the regulatory committee, which explained that when the President made a remark, when the bill was turned to the Supreme Council, there was a remark from the President, but no specific proposals were made for articles. It is said that he rejects in general, because no one but the President can submit his proposal to the Supreme Council. So I was guided by the regulatory committee’s explanation, and I suggest that it be rejected as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u49	Thank you. So we have two suggestions. The first proposal is the draft Supreme Council Decision No. 0924-p, introduced by the members of the Committee on Social Policy of Shevczuk and others, on the drafting of the Ukrainian Act on the System of Assembly and the calculation of the sole social contribution to the general public social insurance obligation. I'm putting this motion to a vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:00:55.]] For 1 The decision is not taken. I am voting on draft regulation 0924-p1 on the rejection of the Ukrainian Act on the system of assembly and the calculation of the sole social contribution to the general government social insurance. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:01:28]] For 109 The decision is not taken. I am putting to the vote the issue of overcoming the veto of the President of Ukraine on the Ukrainian Act "On the deviation of the system of assembly and the calculation of the only social contribution to the general public social insurance obligation". I'd like to make a statement. [[12:02:01]] For-0 The President's veto is not over; the law is overturned. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 32 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, we continue our work. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian National Council on Television and Radio Broadcasting, with proposals by the President of Ukraine, No. 0953, is being announced for consideration. A representative of the President of Ukraine on the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Igor Volodymyrovich Popov, reports.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u51	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! Dear National Deputies! At the conviction of the President of Ukraine, adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 18 December 2008, the Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the National Council for Television and Radio Broadcasting cannot be signed on the basis of this. The law that came upon the signature provided that the Supreme Council of Ukraine and/or the President of Ukraine could express mistrust to the National Council on Television and Radio-communication as a result of its review of its report. As a result of the statement of mistrust by the National Council of Parliament, the term of office of members of the National Council for Television and Radio Broadcasting appointed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine is suspended. A statement of mistrust by the President of Ukraine on the timely suspension of the powers of members of the National Council for Television and Radio Broadcasting appointed by the President of Ukraine. Subparagraph 2 of paragraph 1. Accordingly, it is proposed to establish an appropriate basis and mechanism for the early termination of the terms of office of a member of the National Council, paragraph 1, subparagraph 1. In this regard, it should be noted that according to the Ukrainian National Council for Television and Radio Broadcasting Act, the National Council on Television and Radio is a constitutional, continuously active, collegiate body whose purpose is to oversee Ukraine’s compliance with the laws of the radio broadcasting sector and to exercise regulatory powers in part 1 of article 1. It consists of 8 persons, four of whom are appointed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and four by the President of Ukraine, and is responsible for the appointment of at least six of its members. Part 1 and 2 of Article 4. At the same time, it has been established that members of the National Council cannot perform the functions assigned to the National Council alone. Part 2 of Article 3. Under such conditions, the proposed law that has come to the signature of the mechanism for expressing mistrust in the National Television and Radio Council may block the work of this body, which, given its status and authority, cannot be accepted. The position of the law in question is denied and because it effectively introduces the responsibility of the members of the National Council's college body, which is formed by Parliament and the President of Ukraine on parity principles only in front of one of these bodies. This, in turn, may lead to the dependence, objectivity, prejudice of members of the National Council in carrying out their activities, which does not correspond to article 3 of the Ukrainian Law on the National Council for Television and Broadcasting, according to which independence, objectivity, in particular its principles on which the National Council is based, is based. Taking into account what has been said, the Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the National Council for Television and Radio Broadcasting should be rejected. I would also like to inform you that the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has also given its general conclusion that the Administration considers it appropriate to accept the proposal of the President of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u52	Thank you, Igor Vladimirovich. Anna Mikolayevna Herman's report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u53	Honorary colleagues, the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information reviewed President Yushchenk's proposals for the Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on National Council for Television and Radio Broadcasting, and endorsed the recommendation of the Supreme Council to reject the President's proposals and to overcome the President's veto for this law. The Committee believes that the proposals of the President of Ukraine do not have legal details and more political elements than legal ones. Therefore, I ask you to determine whether you vote or not to vote in favour of defeating the President's veto. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u54	Thank you, Anna Santa, sit down, please. So, fellow Members, we have two proposals: the proposal of the President of Ukraine to reject the law and the proposal of a committee to overcome the veto. I am voting on the proposal by the President of Ukraine to reject the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the National Council for Television and Broadcasting, number 0953. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:41:12]] For the 18th. The President's proposal is not supported. The proposal of the President of Ukraine's Presidential Veto is put to the vote “On Amendments to Ukraine's Law on the National Council of Ukraine on Television and Broadcasting”. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:41:47]] For-69 The decision is not taken, the law is repealed. Dear colleagues, the next issue we should consider is the draft Order on Amendments to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order of 5 June 1996 “On the establishment of named scholarships of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to students of higher education”. Prior to the opening of the plenary session, the head of the profile committee presented a document indicating that there was a request to continue working with the main initiators of the project and to consider it in the following plenary weeks. Is there any objection or are we going to consider it now? Is there no objection? We're moving. A draft Judgment Order 2008 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the contribution of young people to the development of parliamentaryism, local self-government, registration number 2648 is being announced. Please report to the Secretary of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport, and Tourism, Najdjonov Andry Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u55	Dear colleagues, on the fifth March of this year, we considered at the sessional meeting a draft resolution of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the 2008 award of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Prize for the contribution of young people to the development of parliamentaryism, local self-government. It was agreed that the draft should be sent to the Committee for further elaboration. The only main observation was the presence of two candidates in one area. The Committee has taken note of this observation, has taken the relevant decision and is introducing a revised draft regulation for your consideration. Part of the proposals of the People's Deputy Karmazin are also taken into account. After finalization, it is proposed to award nine prizes, each of which involves a monetary component of 1,360 bracelets, a total value of 12,000. 246 bracelets. In this regard, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, according to the Office's information, this money is not available for the current year, and we still have 10 bonuses to be awarded this year. What we are looking at right now is our debt to young people, that's in 2008. We therefore ask the leadership of Parliament to instruct the Office to seek these funds, and the Committee requests that a revised draft regulation be adopted as a basis and as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u56	Any questions for the reporter? Please sign up. Samolica Katerina Seminovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u57	Thank you. Well, first of all, I want to say that this decision needs to be supported, because it's not the only prize that encourages young people not only to be members of Parliament, but above all to be members of different levels and activists of our social organizations, and so I would like to ask, of course, for this determination to be supported. But I don't understand your package. In the budget, in the State Budget, and then in the Treasury, the schedule of the Supreme Council of Ukraine provides funds for this prize. It's not that much, it's just 10 prizes, and I know there's always been a struggle for young people to really get a prize. On the contrary, we had a very big fight so that all regions, young deputies of different levels, could fight and become winners of this prize. And I was a little concerned that you said we were asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u58	Complete the question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u59	I'm glad we're looking for that kind of money. So they're not in the budget of the Supreme Council of Ukraine?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u60	Well, there's official information from the Office of the case, so we're asking them to provide, they should have been provided. It is correct that, according to the decree drawn up for 2008-2009, this money should be budgeted. We didn't use it. We didn't vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u61	The sand, Ivan Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u62	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Reverend Andrew Mikhailovich, depending on who you left behind or not left on this list, I will take part in the vote or not. On the other hand, the village head of Ster was nominated on the previous list. A deep area of the Cherniewice region. I'd like to know if there's a suitable candidate left. That's the first one. And secondly, it would be appropriate, because there are only nine last names to read these names and where they're from to figure out this nuance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u63	So before I read it, I want to point out that all the materials that have been presented by the regional councils, the district councils, that is, all local governments, have been processed. Yes, I will read this list, except for one that was once again agreed with local self-government authorities in a certain area. The Supreme Council of Ukraine decrees: to award in 2008 the Supreme Council of Ukraine a prize for the contribution of young people to the development of parliamentaryism, local self-governance: the therapist Sergio Alexandrovich, the head of the All-Ukrainian Youth Society, the Union of Gifted Youth, the Aspirant of the National Pedagogical University of Dragomanova; Andriy Viktorovich, the city head of the City of the Ostroh Plains region; Timofei Paul Anatoliovich, the head of the Strategic Development Department of the City and Information Technology of the Executive Committee. [[Melitopol]] The building of Natalia Vasilovni, the Sterickian village head of the region of Cherniewec, Elsin Vladislav Grigorovich, deputy of the Donetsk District Council, president of the Foundation for Development. “Olympic”; Black Alexi Juryovich, Deputy Minister, Chief of Youth Policy and Gender Equality of the Ministry for Family Affairs, Youth and Gender Policies of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea; Rudenko Vadim Borisovich, Head of the Secretariat of the Ukrainian Youth Forum, Head of the Ukrainian Union of Young Deputies. ” [[and the public organization, this is the Kyrovograd Regional Parliament of the Children]]
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u64	Questions. Herman Hanna Mikolayevna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u65	Dear colleagues, the Party of Regions will certainly be supporting the award of prizes to these talented young people, and there is money for it. You and I have given up part of our MP's salary. Let the money go to these young people. At least then we'll know where the money went.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u66	You supported the committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u67	Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u68	Dear colleagues, well, it is a shame for the current Cabinet of Ministers, when, from the Prime Minister's mouth, there is a constant message from ministers that they support young people worldwide, take care of young people, and, as far as is concerned, there is a sharp decline in money, either funding or several times, or there is no money at all. Now, before that, we canceled the decree on... the definition of grade names. And when they looked at it, it turned out that these scholarships were a few times smaller than they were last year. And before that, they didn't pay at all, they didn't have any money. Now that young people have contributed to the development of parliamentaryism, it also turns out that there is no money. Therefore, it is understandable why the Government is delaying the budget correction, that it is actually engulfing talented young people. The Party of the Regions therefore demands that the Anti-crisis programme be introduced immediately on Tuesday, together with a budget change where the budget is to be established, including all social programmes, yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u69	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u70	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear Andriy Mihajlovich, I think that in the regulation, paragraph three, there is still a need to write down, except for the Management of Affairs, the word “machine”, and to write the words “and the Committee on Budgetary Questions”. Because, obviously, some of our colleagues just didn't realize that this was a prize from the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which the government actually has nothing to do with. It's about finding these funding opportunities. And these are the possibilities, and do you think it's possible, that in the event that it's not funded, we need to immediately delete from the corrosive the additional funds that are going for certain purposes and replace them with these scholarships, including, for 2009, And at the same time, let's think about a project to change the cost of the asset in this part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u71	So you confirm, indeed, the words that have been said before that this draft regulation has not been voted on for three years 2006, 2007, 2008 are not being considered for the various reasons you know. And the money that has been allocated today in the budget, we are calling attention to putting it in today. 2008 They're gone. 2008's over. We are now considering the 2008 decree.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u72	Thank you, Andrey Mikhailovich, please sit down. Wishing to participate in discussions between factions and national MPs separately, please sign in. Herman Hanna Mikolayevna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u73	Please, the Popsicle word.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u74	Ivan Vasilovich Popescu, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u75	Thank you. The sand, the faction of the regions. In view of the answers we have heard from the rostrum and the reasoning given by the national deputies during the questionings, the noble colleagues give us reason to believe that we will be able to find these 12,000 bracelets. They are, by the way, because this is a regulation that was prepared in 2008, and this money was provided for in the 2008 budget of Ukraine. So we don't even have to look this year. But if even the government has used these funds, I think we're going to find 12,000 to figure it out. Therefore, the Party of Regions is in favour of adopting this draft decision and we will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u76	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u77	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense. I'm for those of you who don't understand. I expected to be included, but the chairman invited me to the rostrum. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the funds that were allocated in 2008 are simply, you know, gone to other ends. So we need to look for funds from the treasure this year. Hence, we have repeatedly been told that the benefits, privileges, and so forth have been abolished. Actually, there's one simple thing to do. At the expense of the funds allocated for the transport services of the deputies, however, they are interestingly set aside. If you haven't used the funds, and I'm officially stating that no copies have been used since the start of the call on the so-called transport service. So the funds that are allocated to one member of Carmazin's office, the same thing that Mrs. Anna Herman and the other deputies say, are those MPs that are not used, enough with their heads to secure this funding. But somewhere they're spending this money. So I'd like to ask you a question and ask a question to the regulatory committee, see how management answers us that it can't provide this funding. Because we have a regulatory committee and we have a budget committee that controls such expenditure, including control and what happens in the Office of the Supreme Council. Because I've long wanted to find out how our colleagues, not the MPs, will be able to get our apartments out. And I call for transparency in this. Hang up the lists, show me. And that's not normal when we, the Ukrainian national deputies, don't know, I don't talk about those secretarial workers who don't know what they're in line for when they're being moved or where they're going. Therefore, by supporting the idea of adoption and financing, finding funding and calling on the committee to award the prizes, and for the special contribution of young people to the development of parliamentaryism, local self-government in 2008, I certainly do not ask to do so, as the President did when he immediately appointed the Head of the Public Organization Secretariat and a representative in Parliament. In connection with what, he was named "Ternopil" and also "Ternopilian". Of course you can't do that. Of course, it has to be done on a reasonable basis. For this reason, I propose that the third paragraph should be added to the words “and the Committee on Rules and Budgets of the Supreme Council”, so that everything is and will be paid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u78	Samolikka Katerina Seminovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u79	Thank you. I'm not going to the rostrum, thank you very much. Dear colleagues! And the honourable leaders of our youth organizations, I want to address you in particular. Yes, it was almost ten years ago that we were introduced into the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the development of parliamentaryism and local self-government. And I think it was very right, because when we talk a lot about involving young people in active political work, in active public position, for some reason everyone thinks it's just the Supreme Council of Ukraine, it's just the deputy of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the national deputy of Ukraine. But politics and activity are not only reflected in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, but it also manifests itself locally. And the more we find nuggets in places, the richer our country will be with you. The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine in its own time was the initiator of this award for young people and, of course, we will vote, and more so, we see that the geography of our nation is well-kept. And there are young people, completely different young people, and the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, and leaders of public organizations, and a young city head, and, of course, we will support all of this. But the distinguished Alexander Volodymyrovich, and the distinguished national MPs, and Yuri Pavlovich, who represents our own department of profile, raises the question, and it is a very relevant and urgent issue, which concerns the development of a national youth education program. Unfortunately, for ten years, we've been asking this question, but we've been changing ministers all the time and talking about it in no time. This is the situation, not the love of your home country, the Fatherland, the drug abuse, AIDS, tuberculosis, and you can go on with it. So I ask you very much, Yuri Pavlovich, this is a question and a matter of course for our committee of profile. And the next question. In order for it not to be like this once, that out of the 10 prizes we've offered only 8 or 9 nominees, we need both a profile committee, and the ministry to send this decision, which introduced this award to all public organizations, to local self-government, and to district government administrations, who.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u80	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u81	..who hasn't learned yet that very active young people should be encouraged. I'd just like to ask you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u82	Matthew Valentin Grigorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u83	I think there's no doubt that we need to support a defined draft decision, especially that it's actually proposed after a detailed preliminary discussion at the Supreme Council of Ukraine and, in my opinion, the committee has drawn conclusions from that discussion and made the necessary changes that I think we will support today. I think we should not forget that the initiator of such an approach in order to celebrate the best young deputies and those young people who want to show themselves in the field of parliamentary or parliamentary activity has in his time proposed the Committee on Science and Education, which led the representative of our faction, Catherine Seminovna Samojlik. And as practice has shown, this draft decree has found a positive response among young deputies, members of the boards of all levels of Ukraine. That's why the faction will support this proposed draft decision. I think we should get to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u84	The discussion is over. I am voting on the proposal for a profile committee to adopt an entire draft verdict for the 2008 Supreme Council of Ukraine award for the contribution of young people to the development of local government parliamentaryism. Registration number 2648. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:03:23]] For 256 Decision taken. The factions, please. Party of Regions - 77, “Clock of July Timoshenko” – 125, “Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense” – 8, Communists – 27, “Clock of Lithuania” – 19. A draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences and the Customs Code of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on the prosecution of decisions on administrative offences]] Registration number 2682. Report by Justice Minister Onichuk Mikola Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u85	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! Your view is a very important law that deals with the protection and protection of the constitutional rights of citizens. It is I who call upon the House, the National Deputies, to concentrate your attention in determining my vote under this law. The fact is that the Ukrainian Constitution guarantees citizens the right not only to be tried in court but also to appeal, to appeal and to appeal. In accordance with the law, as set out in the relevant provisions of the Constitution and the law, which is the subject of amendments to the Code of Administrative Offences and to the Customs Code, the purpose of which is to introduce a right of cassation to review decisions of the courts ordered in administrative proceedings in connection with the imposition of citizens. These are cases where court decisions apply, in particular, to citizens who are as sensitive as administrative arrests, such as the removal of special rights, such as the application of tested jobs, and some others. Unfortunately, so far, despite the sufficient development of our legal system and, in particular, in the implementation of constitutional rules, this right to a cassation review is not guaranteed by Ukraine's laws. And that's why the government's initiative is going to provide a solution to the issue. The second subject that is addressed by this law. Surprisingly, so far the provisions of article 263 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences, according to which a person may be detained for up to 10 days without a court order and from the procurator’s sanction, remain valid. You know very well that administrative detention is one that is unforeseeable by law, but, once again, despite the requirements of the Constitution, such decisions regarding the detention of a person above the established Constitution, i.e. more than 72 hours, must be made solely by decision of the court. Since administrative arrest is a form of administrative responsibility, and not only criminal, as we consider it, is established, then the application as a precautionary measure of detention for the commission of an offence under administrative arrest should be limited to the right to grant appropriate consent to the detention of a person for more than three hours only by the court. This is actually the essence of the law that has to raise the level of procedural regulation of the relevant relationship to the requirements of the Constitution. In view of the proposed amendments to the Code of Administrative Offences and the Customs Code, this will allow for the strengthening of constitutional guarantees of legality in administrative matters. The implementation of this law does not require additional costs from the State budget of Ukraine, as it is well known that the courts of the cassation institution and their funding are provided under existing procedures, and a certain increase in the burden on the courts of the court of a cassation, in our view, will not be linked to the need to increase the number of courts that deal with the relevant cases of administrative offences in a case-by-case manner. Taking into account what has been said, we propose the adoption of a draft law amending the Code of Administrative Offences and the Customs Code, submitted for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u86	Thank you, Mikola Vasilovich. Please write down who has the question to the reporter. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u87	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Ladies and gentlemen, a few questions arise when you learn about these projects, although they can be supported as a whole in the first reading. I still want to ask you, did you count on how difficult it would be to deal with cases before the Supreme Court, in the Court of Appeal on the change you're proposing? That's the first one. And the second. How effective it can be to fight illegal migrants who are supposed to stay here or perhaps some other approach must be taken. I mean, the detention term that is currently in writing is up to 30 days at a time when the penalty is not more than 15 days by code. What are the approaches that you see from these colossals? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u88	Thank you for your question. As for the first one. In the case, the European Court of Justice. v. Ukraine pointed out that, until now, Ukraine has not ensured the implementation of the fundamental rights of citizens to whom the right to a cassation charge applies, and in such circumstances we are in fact coming out of the fact that the right of a person is a determining one, that his security of this right is decisive in the construction of the entire legal system, and that is what it is called when the costs of the State to be secured in connection with the examination are not a factor that can be used to justify the lack of a questionable review in cases where a person is deprived of a number of his or her rights when he or she is subjected to administrative arrest when he or she is deprived of the rights that he or she has, special permits, or in other important cases, is also a measure of administrative fine exceeding 50 untaxed minimums. I'm not talking about that anymore.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u89	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u90	It is said that this examination should be provided within the existing composition of the relevant Chambers of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. In the event that the Supreme Court considers that the number of such administrative administrations will be significant, the Supreme Council should react by providing the corresponding costs in the State budget. And last of all, the detention of persons who illegally cross the customs border and, in particular, their detention at refugee stations. We come from the fact that these are special regulations that apply to a particular category of citizens. Not Ukrainian citizens, these are foreigners or stateless people who illegally cross the State border and most likely are already Parliament's position as defined in the relevant laws, with the fact that in this particular case this term can be 30 times. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u91	Thank you. Please have a seat, Mikola Vasilovich. A report from the committee. Victor Viktorovich Shemchuk. Yuri Prokopchuk instead of Viktor Viktorovich Shemchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u92	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! Your opinion is proposed by the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences and the Customs Code of Ukraine. [[on the prosecution of decisions on administrative offences]] The project proposes to set out the order for the review of court decisions on administrative infringements in appeals, appeals procedures under newly declared and exceptional circumstances, as well as to improve the administrative detention mechanism of the person who committed the administrative offence. Having examined the bill, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Law Enforcement of Law Enforcement considers the proposed procedures for acquittal of decisions on administrative offences to be too cumbersome and unresponsive to social needs. In particular, the project’s authors suggest that decisions be reviewed in an appeal order by colleges of at least three judges, and in a cassation order or under exceptional circumstances, by at least five judges. Well, you can imagine, really, how cumbersome that is. And what I'm trying to say is that today's judicial structures don't even always come up with five judges. So it's impossible to do that. Given that some 3 and a half million cases in this category are being dealt with annually by local courts in Ukraine, the introduction of such a procedure will lead to a substantial increase in the burden on judges, aggravate the quality and length of criminal proceedings, and make it impossible for citizens to exercise their right to justice effectively. In doing so, it should be noted that even the examination of criminal cases before the Supreme Court of Ukraine is carried out by a three - judge college. The adoption of this bill will result in administrative delinquency cases being dealt with for years, while offenders will avoid liability, and no fine will be paid. Imagine that for stealing property for up to 900 dollars, a lawbreaker is called upon to be administratively responsible. And if he starts to press charges in an appeal, then a cassation order and, or under any other newly discovered circumstances. I mean, this way, he'll actually escape responsibility. The mechanism proposed by the project is generally ineffective and does not ensure the right of individuals to review decisions within a reasonable time frame. The Committee considers that this issue is regulated by valid legislation and that there is no need to amend part one of article 288 of the Code of Administrative Offences. Furthermore, the Committee considers it necessary to recall that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted on 24 September 2008 a law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to improve the regulation of road safety relations, amending article 294 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences and introducing an appeal mechanism for a court ruling on administrative offences. Moreover, the same law provides that the court’s ruling on an administrative offence is final after its review of the appeal and is not admissible. On the basis of this, the committee concluded that the bill needed substantial work and therefore decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that it should be rejected. The Supreme Court of Ukraine also holds that view. The chief scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine proposes to return the bill to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for further development. On behalf of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, the committee considered the bill twice at its meeting and twice decided to reject it. Please support the committee's decision to reject the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u93	Please sign up for a question to a co-rapporteur. Vladimir Mikhajlovich Viezivski, please. Yuri Bogdanovich Klukkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u94	Thank you. Yuri Klukkowski, "Our Ukraine." Dear reporter! You used a very interesting expression of “there is no social need” and argued that the court would be tried by three judges, five judges. What, then, is the absence of a social need? The fact that a person can be arrested for 15 days, broken up for a small entrepreneur, ruined his business, and he can't even be accused because there, you see, five judges are having a hard time getting together. Is that, in your opinion, a social need for such a law?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u95	Dear Yuri Borisovich, first of all, as I said in my report and the committee on this point, has already stressed that it is already in line with article 294 of the Code of Administrative Offences and the mechanism of appeal, of appeal, of appeal, of complaint, is what applies, including those bills that were previously adopted, including what I called road safety. And today, again, to do more of these procedures, to gather people more, do you think that the entrepreneur you so care about will become more protected by law and law? No way. Because today, really, even if three judges in separate areas can't be found because they're either not approved or anything else. Let's start with a proper judicial reform, which we're talking about very much, and then we're going to be able to regulate all of them, because now we're going to load up all the codes and we're going to overload, which is just not going to be possible, and you're all perfectly as a lawyer, you know. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u96	Kulczynski Mikola Georgievich
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u97	Mikola Kulczynski, “For Ukraine” MP. Dear reporter, you have the minister speaking and said that this is a fundamental right of appeal and a fundamental constitutional right of citizens. I hope you don't deny it. And this right is not guaranteed by valid legislation, even though you say the 293rd article is secured. Not like that. So why not assert this right even though the judicial system is imperfect there, it will someday be perfect. But today we must act in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u98	Thank you. It is a very careful and most important law that protects a person. It's all rights, by the way, and it's prescribed. Another thing that today, when we even talk about improvement, can be an endless improvement. But when we put the same horse in front of the wagon, I don't think that's going to work. We will simply re-create additional bureaucratic conditions there to avoid responsibilities, as the report stated. Moreover, the Committee on Law Enforcement is, by the way, the committee that works regularly and effectively, perhaps by the number of meetings held, let's say, he is or is not a leader, and he is represented by representatives of various factions. The decision and, by the way, the well-known lawyers, lawyers, with experience, and the decision was to reject the bill twice. I'm making the decision of the entire committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u99	Stojko Ivan Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u100	Thank you. Ivan Stojko, group “For Ukraine! ” In principle, I had a decision when he answered the question of Yuri Bogdanovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u101	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u102	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear reporter, I have carefully studied the bill, and in addition to the flaws that you have addressed today and have pointed out to the committee, I see great benefits, including the protection of human rights. Including, I see the benefits of introducing standards that tell us how to continue the maintenance period, where things are said that result in the annulment and closure of the case, which are introduced whole chapters in the order of implementation related to the verification of these regulations and the charges that are being made to the article on the protector, which has been completely uncivilized. And in general, the codex needed to be changed a long time ago. Excluding negative articles and leaving them positive whether they can be accepted in the first reading and then in general. I think so, for example. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u103	Thank you. So, and according to what was proposed today, it was stated that the bill, and this is any creative work, all the more so, on the basis that when the Ministry of Justice develops it, there are all the experienced professionals, we know that. But you also agree that there are a lot of imperfect things and why we should accept them in general today or, as you say, those loads, imperfect things. There will certainly be an amended bill, a committee will be put on the committee, a committee will consider it, a decision will be taken, it will be cleared, it will be acceptable to all of our societies, for the judicial system, for those who need to be protected, because when you talk about the Institute of Defenders, we don't even have it in Ukraine, because we don't have today the lawyer of the one who was once, when the protector was guaranteed, to the great regret. So all of these issues need to be taken into account, I agree, and the bill can be worked out and brought up again. So far, the committee, once again, has decided to reject the bill and I ask for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u104	Bodnar Olga Borisovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u105	Dear Yuri Volodymyrovich, I wanted to ask you one question. When this bill was being drafted or, let's put it this way, was it consultation with the institutions, institutions, or was it being discussed in order to understand the general trend, the concept of this bill? The committee itself?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u106	Thank you. So the committee didn't get involved in the concept, as you said. The committee. Actually, he's looking at all the bills that apply to his identity. Here. And, of course, I'm again from the previous reverend Yuri Anatoliovich, and I don't want to say that everything here, for example, is imperfect, but there are things that today are unacceptable, unacceptable, because this bill will not add anything, this money will not introduce anything in order to improve the protection of all those categories that have been talked about here, entrepreneurs and everyone else. This will simply increase bureaucratic influence, it will increase, as it were, the pressure, including probably in the pockets of those people who will come to protect themselves, because they're going to be told to roll more, sorry for being straight. And today this bill is not acceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u107	Kenzior Jaroslav Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u108	Thank you. I received an answer to a question from my previous colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u109	Grigorovich Lilia Stepanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u110	You can see how actively we've been involved in discussing such an important bill. So there is curiosity and interest. He's joining us. And we'll make decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u111	Have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u112	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u113	If you would like to take part in the discussion, please sign in. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u114	Yuri Karmazin Party of Protectors of the Homeland, “Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense”. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank those who have drafted the bill. In this case, I would like to thank the Justice Minister in person who drafted this bill, so that at least you can thank them for the thought and thought that is serious. I've listed 42 articles that are now included in the Code of Administrative Offences. 42, we have a note of the statement, actually, up to the 4 articles in the big account. And these observations can be heard. Because really, the fact that today in the Supreme Court you can't even consider a criminal case in reasonable terms is understandable, because it's hard to do that, and in a situation like this, I think it's a sin. But what is proposed, including the extension of the term, is to introduce the term in article 263, but which says that the terms of administrative detention increase to 30 days in relation to an alien and a stateless person. So I'm asking you a question, you're planting a citizen there. I'll say it's a parolee's last name. You don't know who he is, you have to get him copied, you have to ask him, you have to show him if he doesn't have any disease to find out everything, and you have to do it in 15 days. Is that normal? It's impossible, really impossible. So we have to continue the deadline to 15 days, but to assume that this is a precautionary measure, not an administrative drawdown, it's just a precautionary measure. And then, after we've been installed, we'll have to take the punishment to him, and then we'll have to take the punishment. Now, about the other points that are in this bill. I agree in part with the criticism that has been expressed, but you see, the chapter “The conduct is related to the examination of judgements, the approval of the court in matters of administrative offences”. This is also a change to article 297 with a badge of 1, and 297 with a badge of 2, which provides for the exact form of the appeal, the change in the appeal, and so on. It's a positive, it's a protection of citizens' rights. Or changes to Chapter 24 "b" “Accusation of court decisions in the case of administrative infringement in the cassation order”. It also normalizes and says that even the Supreme Court should have a maximum of two months to consider, but assuming that there should be a reasonable term. Hence, respectable friends, both the article on the defender and the review of newly discovered ones, oblige us to adopt a bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u115	Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u116	Honourable Alexander Volodymyrovich, honourable colleagues, this bill is aimed at further improving the legal regulation of social relations in the area of bringing natural persons to administrative responsibility, accusing decisions to bring such responsibility. The following should be noted for the project. The bill stipulates that the case of administrative misconduct in the court of an appellate body is conducted by a college composed of three judges and by a college composed of five judges in the court of a cassation. We believe that the proposed project rules will increase the amount of additional work for judges of the Supreme Court of Ukraine and, more importantly, the judges of the General Courts of Appeal. Therefore, we believe that it would be appropriate to provide for a one - person examination of the case of administrative misconduct by the judges of the appeal and cassation institution. But even then, in today's circumstances, it will not be possible to provide an appeal and cassation to deal with administrative offences in more or less reasonable terms. This will result in a significant reduction in the execution of administrative charges decisions. It also raises doubts about the procedure for administrative arrest made in part two of article 326 of the bill. The reference to a possible escape from the occasion or the possibility of committing a new wrongdoing is not convincing arguments. In the same way, the need for immediate application of a fine or other drawback order can be justified, which can also be avoided. The possibility of avoiding a seizure in itself cannot in itself be sufficient grounds for the immediate application of it. In this case, it would be appropriate to assume responsibility for avoiding administrative tightening. The position of the faction of the Party of the Regions is to reject this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u117	Vazievsky Vladimir Mikhailovich. He's taking off his speech. Klukkowski Yuri Bogdanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u118	Dear Mr. Chief, distinguished colleagues! I would like to start with a quote, unfortunately, from the Constitution of Ukraine: “Man, his rights and dignity are the highest value in Ukraine.” And that was the reason that my question was prompted by the surprise that the social necessity was that the five judges of the Supreme Court were having a difficult time meeting together and that it was very difficult to deal with a case when someone was arrested or deprived of the right to engage in an activity that was the only source of income for that person. In fact, I think that although there were very strong experts on the committee, unfortunately, the so - called acquittal of treatment of these people prevailed. Regrettably, they are all perceived as the apocryphals of criminals to be punished and made sure that they do not escape, rather than think about how. Even assuming that they broke the law, how do they protect their rights? And once again, human rights are the highest value in Ukraine. I think we're forgetting this, the Code of Administrative Offences is not a sanction for serious criminals, it's for ordinary people and it happens at every turn, and it's very often, unfortunately, innocent. It was mentioned here that stealing up to 900 dollars is already an administrative fine. I want to remind you, in this bill, it's not about fines, it's about more serious things that have much more serious consequences for those who are being held accountable. Hence, every person has the right, when called to account, to exercise the full extent of constitutional protection of his rights. And I would like to remind you that in doing so, the Constitution establishes the right to both appeal and cassation. I would be very sorry to think that the appeal ends even if it is implemented and further human beings only where they can go -- to the European Court of Human Rights. Can the committee also prohibit our citizens from doing so? I am therefore very sorry that such a decision by the committee is all the more so that so qualified lawyers could not fail to see the rules of the Rules that the rejection of the bill means that the next time it can only be considered in the autumn session. I'm surprised you didn't offer to read it again. Why these fine standards about five judges cannot be taken into account in preparing for the second reading. I'd like to turn around, support my colleague Yuri Karmazin and turn to the hall, although it's hard to do that in such a presence, to support the bill in the first reading or at least direct it to the first reading again. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u119	Kulczynski Mikola Grigorovich He's taking off his speech. Arjewitin Stanislav Mikhailovich. He's taking off his speech. The discussion is over. I'm voting on the adoption as the basis of the draft law on amendment before. One second, please, the final word of the reporter is the Minister of Justice of Onischuk Mikola.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u120	Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, for the first time, we are facing the situation, and I see it in the mood of the Hall, when it is obviously necessary to ensure the constitutional rights of citizens that the rule of law is not supported by the government. I would like to remind you of those who made appeals. The Supreme Council of Ukraine had already provided an appeal for administrative charges, adopting legislation, amending the Road Traffic Act of Ukraine, and then amending the Code of Administrative Offences, which provided for an appeal review by just three judges. We can change the doctrine for this category of things, but that's no reason to reject the idea itself. And when it comes to coaxing, once again, I want to pay attention. Dear colleagues, it's only about granting the right to review court decisions regarding the application of administrative fees in the most difficult, from the point of view of gravity in the administrative and legal context, it's about administrative arrest, it's about disqualification of special rights, it's about administrative confiscation, it's about administrative sequestration if they're above 50 non-taxable minimums, and Parliament rejects it. I don't understand. It was not by chance that I addressed the committee as the minister of justice, when I was just surprised that the committee did not support these ideas, when the committee did not support the idea that it was at the court's sanction that a person could maintain, that an administrative arrest would be applied as a means of warning of administrative misconduct, rather than sanctioning the prosecutor. And at the very least, I ask to vote in favour of the second reading again, so that the committee, together with the Ministry of Justice, can come back to this, not to mention our commitment to the Council of Europe when it comes to the decision of the European Court of Human Rights, which clearly pointed out the need to bring national legislation in this part to the requirements of the Council of Europe, the European standards. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u121	Thank you, Mikola Vasilovich. Is there a need for a coconspirator in the closing word? None. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that this is a bill introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers, which it defines as urgent. I would like to vote on the adoption of the draft Law amending the Code of Administrative Offences and the Customs Code of Ukraine, registration number 2682. [[on the prosecution of decisions on administrative offences]] I'd like to make a statement. [[13:38:34]] For-57 The decision is not taken. During the discussion, a proposal was made to re-read the draft law. I am voting on the proposal to re-read the draft Law amending the Code of Administrative Offences and the Customs Code of Ukraine, registration number 2682. [[on the prosecution of decisions on administrative offences]] I'd like to make a statement. [[13:39:16]] For-60 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Let us turn to the second reading of the bills. A draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the employment of members of private farmers, registration number 4043, is being announced for consideration. Schmelov Svetlana Alexandrovna reports. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u122	The honourable chairman, the distinguished national MPs, the honourable peasants who will listen to this bill. On March 5, 2009, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted, as a basis for its first reading, a bill amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts concerning the employment of members of private peasant farms, introduced by the Ukrainian national deputies Sergei Vladimirovich Gordijenko and Valentin Grigorovič Matvijev. The Supreme Council decree instructed the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy and Work to finalize the proposed bill, taking into account the specific provisions of alternative bills, registration numbers 4043-1, 4043-7, as well as the comments and proposals of the legal entities and to submit it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for second reading. The committee formed a working group of national deputies, drafters of the bill, representatives of other committees, such as the agro-industry complex, ministries, trade unions, employers’ organizations and scientists. I would like to remind you that the bill is aimed at correcting the situation that took place after the introduction of the Ukrainian Employment Act on 13 January of this year to amend some of the laws of Ukraine on reducing the impact of the world crisis on employment. It should be noted that the working group and the committee have repeatedly met on this issue. The working groups and the committees had a heated discussion about the bill, since not only the national MPs of Ukraine, as evidenced by the number of bills proposed, but also by the ministries, were different. The main question was whether to go back to an editorial that was amended by the law adopted on January 13, or to find another editor. The working group concluded that it was necessary to go back to the drafting of the articles of the Ukrainian Law on Personal Agriculture, which existed prior to the adoption of the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on reducing the impact of the global crisis on employment]] However, a majority of the votes on the committee are proposed in article eight, namely: “Members of private agriculture are persons who provide themselves with work on their own and according to the Ukrainian Employment Act, if personal farming is their main activity. Personal farming activities are essential for the members of the farm, if not the last two.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u123	Complete, please, Svetlana Alexandrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u124	The twelve months preceding their call to the State Employment Service did not belong to the occupied population in accordance with paragraphs “a”, “b”, except for the holding of a personal farm, “in”, “h”, “e”, paragraph three of article 1 of the Ukrainian Employment Act “For the population or belonging to the listed categories of persons less than 26 calendar”. In the same vein, young villages that graduate from schools and other educational institutions have no right to a constitutional guarantee of the right to work — that is, discrimination against rural youth in relation to the urban population. This is Amendment 11, we're going to go. Now let's move on to the proposals in the bill table.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u125	Dear colleagues, let us now consider the proposals that came from the legislators after the adoption of this draft law. The first amendment of the national MP Kravczuk and the national MP, Sasa, is included in part. Are they in line with the text that is accepted or the need for reasoning? The authors first. Yes. Please turn on the microphone to the national MP Kravchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u126	I agree.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u127	Do you agree with that?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u128	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u129	Is there any other way of thinking about it? I'm asking if there is. We will put to the vote all amendments in accordance with the Rules. So, please, if there is no other thought of cancelling this amendment, which is considered by the committee, I am voting on the proposal to support the partial amendment number one in the edition proposed by the profiling committee. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:45:14]] For 306 Correction to committee editing supported. Amendment number two, Pavlovsky’s national deputy, is counted. Is there any objection in the session room to taking this amendment into account? The key Yuri Bogdanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u130	Thank you. Yuri Klukkowski “Our Ukraine”. First, we supported the amendment as a whole, not in part, because we don't know what it is in part, but we supported the amendment as it was made. An amendment is put to the vote, not part of it. As for the second amendment, it actually contradicts the first amendment and creates a vicious logical circle. This amendment is sent to the Personal Farming Act, and if you look at page 5 of the corresponding amendment to the Personal Farming Act, there is a reference to this law, and particularly to this norm. Thus, the question of who belongs to, which are members of, and in which cases, there is no solution, so Paul’s amendment cannot be supported, and it must be repealed.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u131	Pavlovsky’s national deputy, does he have a desire to reason on his amendment? It doesn't. The committee's point of view, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u132	The point of view of the committee was taken into account because it did not change the Basic Law. But let Paul’s counsel be made clear because I have a separate opinion from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u133	I am putting to the vote the question of support for amendment number two of Pavlovsky's people's deputies, please identify yourself. [[13:47:08]] For-163 Correction not supported. Amendment No. 3 of the Prutnik People's Deputy. Partially counted. Is the committee’s editorial committee in place? It's fine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u134	There's actually a part of it that's repeating itself.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u135	I put to the vote amendment No. 3 of the Prutnik People's Deputies as proposed by the committee. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:47:50]] For-97 The decision is not taken. Amendment No. 3 is not included in the Committee's editor. The fourth amendment of the Prutnik People’s Deputy is rejected. Is the National MP insisting? Don't insist. Amendment No. 5 of the Karmazin People's Deputy. Overruled. National Deputy Carmazin, do you agree? Please, the microphone of the People's Deputy Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u136	Yuri Karmazin, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”, Party of Protectors of the Homeland. Dear friends, in view of the fact that the amendment was voted first, and the approach was that there should be a calculated income for one member of the private agriculture no less than the minimum wage, and I was thinking that I would like to include these citizens in the list of these citizens, those who worked for at least 26 weeks. So for six months, insurance contributions were paid and the main place of work was thought to be, the last month of work, for hire. With a little bit of another ideology supported, I'm going to take down amendment number 5, but I'm going to justify amendment number six. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u137	Thus, the amendment does not insist on taking it into account. The following amendment number 6 of the Karmazin People's Deputy, rejected by the Committee. Please use the microphone of the People's Deputy Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u138	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to add a new part of the seventh, article 20 of the Ukrainian Employment Act: “The rural, village, city councils are obliged to provide the former members of their respective territories with information on the cessation of their activities immediately after they have applied to these councils. Why is this being done? So we can figure out whether he has a farm or not, what kind of income he has. I don't understand the logic behind rejecting this amendment. It did not interfere at all with the ideology of the law. I'd like to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u139	Svetlana Alexandrovna, please have your arguments regarding the rejection of this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u140	Well it's not just the committee, it's not even the working group where the experts were, it's not just the agrarian committee, it's the agrarian committee, it's the head of the agrarian committee, it's the one who's offered all these amendments so that they don't copy the bill to the agrarian committee. They are preparing a great law on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u141	Yeah, well, the argument isn't convincing. I'm putting to the vote amendment number six of People's Deputies Karmazin. Please be sure. [[13:51:01]] For 168 The decision is not taken. Amendment No. 7 of national deputy Shevchuk Oleg Borisovich was rejected. Is the National MP insisting? Don't insist. It is agreed that the committee recommends not to take into account. Amendment No. 8 of the national MP Kravczuk and the national MP, Sasa, were rejected. Please, microphone to the national deputy Kravchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u142	I propose article 4 of the Personal Farming Act. Article 4. Personal farm accounts and arrangements for the acquisition of farm membership. Personal farming is subject to accounting. Rural, rural, urban councils are responsible for the location of the land in an orderly manner determined by the central executive authority on statistics and the acquisition or loss of membership of a private agricultural holding by applying to rural, rural, urban councils by a person who is in a family or family relationship and living together with the owner, the landlord of the land plot for entry or exit to, from a private farm, as it is nowhere normal in other articles. I suggest we put her to the vote and support her.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u143	Svetlana Alexandrovna, your arguments about deviation.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u144	The committee did not support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u145	No arguments?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u146	These adjustments confuse not only ourselves but also the peasants. Well, think about what's coming back -- 4043, what was its purpose? Take a step back a little bit, but to return to the state that was before the Anti-Crist Law, where people were just thrown out, that was the main purpose of this law. Now we're going to start confusing, confusing with these changes. Let's go back to what?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u147	I'll bet you a vote on the amendment. Please, the author of the amendment, Deputy Kravchuk, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u148	I just want to argue that if there's a member of a private farm that's in family relationships and he's willing to leave, he doesn't want to work there anymore, and there's no normal way out of this, it's written in my amendment. Why the committee turned down and what's wrong, I can't understand. That's why I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u149	There's an amendment to the vote of the 8th National Deputy Kravczuk. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:53:53]] For-189 Correction not supported. Amendment No. 9 of the Chevchuk People's Deputy is rejected by the Committee. Is the National MP insisting? Don't insist. Amendment number 10 of Glazunov's national deputy was rejected by the committee. Is the MP insisting on taking his amendment into account? Don't insist. The 11th amendment of the Chevchuk People's Deputy counts. Is there a denial? There's a denial in the hall. Please deny the Klukkowski People's Deputy. A microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u150	Thank you. Klukkowski, "Our Ukraine." I want to point out that the 11th amendment is actually logically related to the second amendment that we have already rejected. It is part of this vicious circle, where the definition is lost, whether busy or not. Therefore, this amendment must be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u151	A vote is taken on amendment No. 11 of the People’s Deputy Shevchuk. Please make up your mind. To support, of course. [[13:55:17]] For -8 Correction not supported. Amendment No. 12 of the Prutnik People's Deputy is dismissed. It's obvious he's not insisting. Amendment No. 13 of the national deputy Glasunov was rejected by the committee. He doesn't insist on counting. Amendment 14 of the Chevchuk People's Deputy. Declined. National deputy Shevchuk does not insist on making adjustments. Amendment No. 15 of the people's deputy Schmelov has been taken into account. There is no objection to taking this amendment into account?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u152	None. Amendment No. 16 of the Prutnik People’s Deputy is included in the Committee’s editorial form. Are there any claims to this editorial by the Prutnik People's Deputies or other deputies? None. Amendment No. 17 of the Pavlovsky People’s Deputy. Counted. Is there a miscalculation? None. I'm betting on the vote of amendment number 17 of the Pavlovski People's Deputy. In order for the committee to recommend its support, and the Supreme Council alone has the right to determine whether it is supported or not. The previous did not vote those who were recommended to reject and the deputies did not insist on taking them into account. Please read the Rules. The vote is supported by amendment number 17 of Pavlovsky’s national deputy. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:57:13]] For 301 Correction supported. Amendment No. 18 of the People's Deputies of Schmelov. The committee recommends that we consider it. Is there a denial? None. The vote is amended by the 18th National MP, Schmelov. Please be sure. [[13:57:47]] For 289 Decision taken. Amendment No. 20 of the Chevchuk People's Deputy. The committee recommends that it be rejected. Is National Deputy Shevchuk insisting on an amendment? Don't insist. Editing the first reading in this case remains. 21 The amendment of the national MP Kravczuk and the national deputy, Sasa, was rejected. Microphone to the national deputy Kravczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u153	I want Svetlana Alexandrovna, and I want to address everyone as a fellow MP. As can be seen as an unoccupied citizen, a member of a private farm if he has more than two acres [2 ha] of land, if he has a cow, a pig, a horse, a tractor, and he is still considered unoccupied. We voted on the first amendment and now, as a result, we have to vote 21 in order to establish how to calculate the norm that determines the calculated income for a citizen who owns or rents land and property. I emphasize, but the property is essential. So I'm asking you to support my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u154	Your arguments, Svetlana Alexandrovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u155	I mean, it's not about personal farming. That's more, more and more. And we're talking about private farming.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-06-m0.u156	A vote is taken on amendment No. 21 of the People’s Deputies Kravczuk and Sasa. Please identify yourself. [[13:59:31]] For 177 Correction not supported. 22 Amendment, Prutnik’s National Deputy, rejected by the Committee. He doesn't insist on taking the national MP into account. Amendment 23, Prutnik People's Deputy. The committee recommends that we consider it. Any objections to the deputies? I won't. Amendment 23 of the Prutnik People’s Deputy is put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[14:00:08]] For 181 Correction not supported. I want to read what this amendment was: “This law takes effect from the day it was published.” A. That's taken into account, by the way. Apparently, the national MP got mixed up. It just sounded the same on the first reading. So we've looked at all the amendments, we've made the right decisions. I am voting on the second reading of draft Law No. 4043: amending some Ukrainian legislation on the employment of members of private agriculture. I'd like to make up my mind. [[14:01:09]] For 355 Decision taken. Now I have a question for you, Svetlana Alexandrovna. After voting for amendments that were not taken into account by the committee and that were not supported by the amendment recommended by the committee, is there a need for harmonization of the text? Have you followed, and do we have the possibility of being accepted as a whole? Is there a law that's not balanced? The committee’s authorised representative states that there is room for voting in general. Is there no objection? I am voting on the adoption of the whole draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the employment of members of private rural farms. [[Registration number 4043]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[14:02:10]] For 341 Decision taken. The law was passed in general. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that according to the calendar of the 4th session, we will continue to work on committees and factions this week. The next plenary meeting will take place at 10 a.m. on Tuesday, April 14. The morning planning session is closed. Good luck.
