ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[Registration of Ukrainian National Deputies]] [[10:01:23]] Cards were registered in the 398 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the birthday of the Ukrainian national deputy Petrov Boris Fedorovich. Let us join together in welcoming him and wishing him success in life. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, let me give you an overview of the plenary work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from 9 to 12 June 2009. Five plenary sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine were held, 76 issues of the agenda were considered: 18 laws and 14 decrees were adopted; 22 bills were adopted as a basis; one bill was sent for re-reading; 15 bills and one draft decree were rejected; the President of Ukraine's proposals were rejected: the veto of the President of Ukraine was overturned by one law, one law rejected by the President's veto; 66 parliamentary requests were announced. Dear colleagues, now the announcement. According to the minutes of the parliamentary faction of the Party of the Regions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine since 9 June 2009, and in accordance with paragraph three of article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, I report that the National Deputies of Ukraine have been expelled: Bogoslovsk Inna Hermanovna and Chernobyl Taras Viacheslavovich from the Party of the Regions. On the basis of article 59, paragraph 4, of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I inform you that the national deputies of Ukraine, Bogoslovska Inna Hermanovna and Cnerovil Taras Viacheslavovich, are nonfractional. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with article 25 of the Ukrainian Supreme Council Rules, are given 30 minutes on Tuesday for statements by authorized factions with proposals, announcements, messages, and so forth. I ask the authorized factions to sign up from the rostrum. It's a recording. Please put the names of the national deputies who are registered on the board. Dmitri Smoker, faction of the region. Alla Alexandrovska will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u2	Ladies and gentlemen of the National Council, Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, the distinguished scholars of Ukraine! I would like to draw your attention to the problem of the life and fate of each family. Ukraine’s de-intellectualization minister will soon have disastrous consequences for Ukraine’s future. It will take several years, and the total destruction of education will cause us to lose our professional skills in all fields of science, technology, and industry. By replacing the school of knowledge with aggressive ideologies of education, Ukraine is rapidly becoming a completely uncompetitive reservation in the outside world. In fact, it's about the purposeful destruction of education and intelligence as a class and even the conditions for its reproduction. The second year in a row, contrary to the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, is followed by an antihuman and unprofessional experiment against millions of students, their parents, and hundreds of thousands of teachers and teachers. It's about testing when a political farce rises to the level of education reform, when the absoluteization of only one primitive form of knowledge assessment leads to the destruction of the entire education system, the autonomy of universities, the violation of citizens' rights. What is worthwhile is just a mandatory language test that has closed access to colleges almost every tenth year, including brilliant experts in physics, chemistry, and mathematics. This year alone, almost 40,000. Usually these are the broken fates of children from the East and South. They will be forced to go to other countries where education is directed by professionals rather than by vacancies. It's just that the vacants don't need new Vernadians, Kings, Pattons and Landaus. Only North Korea, where no, not even a brilliant child, will receive a higher education if he does not pass the Chuchche lesson. We have no right to remain silent that testing, as imposed by the Ministry, destroys education, violates the five articles of the Constitution, brutally violates laws and human rights. Yes, the minister, by his order of de facto, canceled his studies on the secondary education of all graduates, including the previous years. It's not worth a piece of paper right now. None of those present in this room will be able to obtain a higher education on the basis of an examination, although this is guaranteed by law. To do this, you will need to register for testing each year and pay your own expenses. Testing, which is only one form of quality testing in the world, in the short term, the destroyer minister has become a means of combating corruption and has completely reflected the desire of the students to master knowledge. In general, students are trained to think of learning as unnecessary, learning to guess test crosswords by putting a mark in the right place. The teacher’s many years of work is despised and becomes unnecessary, the students are forced to choose only three subjects, and others become redundant. Judging from the knowledge of the rectors, the minister is probably the only one in the country who doesn't know how much a certificate is needed in his testing centers. It is also impossible to think of a greater moral humiliation of thousands of teachers and teachers, whom the minister considers to be very corrupt, and the practice of testing in April and April, before the end of the school year, of turning education into fiction, of working teachers into total madness, taking into account that there are 10 classes in school other than graduation. Almost all the work done by the Ministry of Testing has unlawfully relied on teachers, which is also exclusively Ukrainian know-how, the process of destruction is not limited to any degree to secondary education. The minister brutally gave away the autonomy of higher education institutions, before which the sovereign monarchs had once retreated. He does not care that current legislation has strengthened universities to have the right to choose for themselves the form of student selection, to seek the talent of young people. Vakarczuk believes that his ministry’s directives are more important than the Constitution and laws that guarantee everyone’s right to education. It's not just non-professionalism anymore, it's a crime, and we need to give him an evaluation by immediately asking him about the resignation of the Minister of Education. Nor can we close our eyes to the fact that Minister Vakarczuk has no moral right at all to be a member of the government, since he has not been a member of the government for over a year and a half to break the current legislation and has not declared a chance to serve as Rector of the University of Lviv, keeping it behind him in the event of his release. Such a person has no right to direct education, to mutilate the fate of future generations. Today we are ordering the resignation of the Minister of Education, the non-professional, the Vakarczuk. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u3	Alla Alexandrovska, a faction of the Communist Party, is invited to the presentation. Vladimir Bondarenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, I would like to address you on some of the issues raised by the voters during their meetings. The Communist faction has been holding such meetings all over Ukraine, and I have recently had to visit several areas: Vinnitsky, Hersonsky, Poltavski and Donetsk. What people say is that wages are rising, and voters are asking what's going on. The Government has promised to address this problem, and the problem is actually only exacerbating. Of the statistics, debt on wages was excluded from businesses, and the figure has decreased, but this does not allow people to receive their wages anyway. The situation in the banking system has further exacerbated this situation. Many public enterprises had their accounts in those banks that are not actually working today and, more importantly, the decision of Nitzbank introduced temporary managers who had frozen all the accounts during the year and did not pay for these accounts, including the money that was to be paid for. This is the problem I faced in Herson, Sudmashe factory. The accounts were, were in the West Bank, there were decent funds left, and the company could not pay off its wages, and the management of the company was fined for allegedly not paying people money. In Kharkiv, the employees of the Chevchenko factory in the daytime actually had a lockout and tried to prevent the business of the leaders of the defence company and the employees of the enterprise. Because wages owed exceeded all permissible standards. Again, the Government was not taking any action, although the plant had good potential, and could also carry out government orders. However, it is evident that the Prime Minister is not concerned with these problems, not with the problems of the plant. Another problem is wages, salaries for teachers of schools and higher education institutions. The Communist faction didn't approve the budget when we approved the budget. We will never support that position. But the budget only provides 50 per cent of the teacher's salary fund. Given that testing cuts the flow of graduates, and fewer and fewer young people are able to receive education, that means that we are actually killing our high school and killing our secondary special education. I believe that it is urgent for the Government to reconsider its approach on this matter. And lastly, there's an unimaginable price of medicine. People can't be treated today. Seventy-five percent of the chronic patients interviewed are not treated because they have no money to buy drugs. However, in Ukraine, we are being destroyed by an industry that has so far worked successfully, produced, developed, produced new effective drugs. We have a state drug research centre in Harikov. What's going on there today? An inspection of the quality of medicines has been established, and in fact, everything is being done to destroy the only research centre in Ukraine that is developing new technologies is developing a new recipe. It is on the basis of these developments that the formation of Ukraine produces something else of its own. Once this centre ceases to exist, it means that we will be deprived of our capacity to have our own national formation and will forever become dependent on the supply of imported drugs. And, of course, people will become dependent on the crazy prices they face today, the prices of drugs. From this rostrum today, I turn to Nazbank Stelmahu, head of the General Assembly: understand what is happening to the accounts of state-owned enterprises, especially the defence complex, which is created with the accounts of budgetary organizations and local governments whose accounts are frozen in those banks that are under your control today. Solve the problem, unlock these accounts, use the money there, and help budget organizations, help state-owned enterprises and local self-government bodies to work properly this year. I appeal from this rostrum to Prime Minister Timoshenko to stop the destruction of the State-owned drug research centre, because this is the only hope for our people to have our quality domestic drugs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u5	Vladimir. Aah! Ivan Kirilenko, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. Next up will be Mikola Martinenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u6	Dear Head, colleagues, distinguished voters! Once a faction has been forced to say that we have not yet decided on the election of the President of Ukraine, and a vicious electoral campaign has already begun. And unfortunately, in the example of the Inter Channel, it is clear that some of its potential participants and the pools of pyar technologists will not stop at anything. All of today we hear and see brutal attacks, absurd and baseless accusations of government and personal Julia Timoshenko in all her mortal sins, terrible intimidation of the population. Some of those who decided to take part in the election race or as technical patrons or those who already see themselves as all-powerful masters of the “presidential Olympics” have chosen the only, in their opinion, lossless tactics and strategies: cynical and insane to charm and accuse the Prime Minister and the actions of the government in everything. Oil and fuel are expensive in the world, and much faster and more than in Ukraine -- they're looking for the government and the Prime Minister, and there's no coal in private mines -- the same song, though asked, and then why were they privatized? Somewhere with the water or turned off the gas – again "guilty daughter-in-law" and went away. The world’s difficult economic situation and its uneasy consequences have become individual politicians a wonderful source of nourishment for shameful, cheap speculations and what sin to conceal brings great joy and pleasure to our opponents. Consider the story: A little over five years ago, only the unwavering political forces were opposed to the power of the day. Everyone else has tried one way or another, one foot, but to be in power. Today, a unique paradox, such as the hares that are afraid of a difficult situation, is being torn apart because they do not want to and fear responsibility. It is absurd, even in the context of the President’s assembly, to determine whether he is in opposition or not. To whom is the opposition? To yourself or to your own people? We realize that a number of politicians and their teams have long lived in elections. But we all live in a country that needs our cooperation. It's easier to call yourself an opposition, to have a lot of free time, to take away from any process, to engage in a favorite hobby, that is, to participate in TV shows, and to put sticks in government wheels, and to be wildly happy: Ukraine is dying, and Julia Timoshenko's rating is falling. What do we see instead of our opponents? Empty declarations, attempts to please the electorate, and then no real proposal to deal with the crisis, how to fill the budget, how to help the areas, cities, villages and economies in general. I'm underlining none! This week, 90 drafts are planned, one third of them government. What does our faction offer? First. All the political forces present in this room without exception went to elections under slogans, authority, authority, earned money, and, of course, the responsibility for the situation at hand to the authorities of local self - government. In order for this not to be a declaration or a one-time action, but seriously and for a long time, we need to adopt the Budget Code today, so for this document, we hope that more than 400 votes will be cast in the second reading. And we suggest that we publish the results of this vote so that voters can see how we care for them. The following year, when the situation is not yet ideal, more than ten billion will remain in villages and villages. This money has never been seen in the village, and the social development of these areas will be addressed. The other one. It's the President's election. We need to remove the tension, remove all reason for the intrigues, and therefore we suggest a clear date for the January 17, 2010, elections. We also propose to amend the Presidential Election Act. The main position is to cut the election campaign from 120 to 90 days. Stop scratching the country! More than seven months before the election, and we're killing people. So before the election campaign starts, we're also proposing a taboo, a moratorium on electoral rhetoric, and a riot by October 17 when the countdown starts, until the election date. Third. 24 June mission of the International Monetary Fund We expect another tranche, the most advantageous financial aid for the country at this difficult time. These costs are needed to stabilize, primarily the national money, the banking system, so to support the national economy, much of which is in the hands of our glorious opposition. In order for the country to have a positive outcome of the negotiations, it is necessary to adopt a number of bank bills, which are also in the order of the day. Their approval is an opportunity for production to predict its activities, to guarantee that the economic situation in the state will improve. And the fourth. We also propose to consider the government's anti-crisis programme, which takes into account the proposals of all factions and committees. So this is our general program, so enough to shock the government, we're not going to help this country. We all need responsibility and to fight together. We, too, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, ask for bill 4503 and to remove suspicions from the Supreme Council. Thank you for your attention and call for the fruitful united work of 450 national deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u7	Mikola Martinenko, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u8	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, to this day political intrigues and the noise around the coalition and the Constitution have finally shrunk, we have any definition, it's already a plus. At the same time, Ukraine joins an extremely hard presidential campaign, so there will be a battle for power that the winner risks winning the result of a burnt desert. It could happen, like in an unhappy anecdote: the electorate supports the most expensive thing it has -- pants. The authorities of all levels risk turning into electoral headquarters of any candidate, and the country risks becoming unconscionable. In these circumstances, the role of the Ukrainian Parliament is particularly growing; it must become a center of stability; it should be an example of constructive work. The Supreme Council is supposed to be a venue for legislative work, not for the pre-election pianist. I want to emphasize the special importance of the fuel-energy complex in crisis conditions. Without gas, there will be no heat and no light, no industry will stop. That is why I propose to vote in favour of making changes to the budget, which will improve the financial situation of ‘Naftogazu Ukraine’. The increase in almost four and a half times its statutory fund will strengthen the campaign's back, increase risk sustainability, and increase in Naftogazu compensations and differences in the cost of imported gas, which is then released to the thermal utility companies, will give the necessary freedom of movement. Unsolved today is the question of gas calculations with Russia, which can lead to another gas crisis. It affects everyone: both Ukraine and Russia, and Europe, which may not be receiving transit gas. It's going to happen if we don't attach the necessary amounts of gas to our underground vaults. Note that the Russian authorities are exerting gas pressure on Ukraine in a consolidated and coordinated manner, and we have other branches of government that are only critical of government, although gas problems apply to all without exception, regardless of political sympathy or antipathy. Therefore, the Supreme Council should act, not remain a passive observer. It is our duty to explain to Europe that it requires support to prevent a new gas resistance that will strike at all. Either lending credit to Ukraine by a consortium of international financial institutions, or European campaigns have to buy the necessary amounts of natural gas for further storage in Ukrainian underground gas shelters, which is true, the second option is much more complex. And in these conditions, the importance of other components of energy in Ukraine is increasing, and it's about nuclear energy. Therefore, the PEC Parliamentary Committee has approved and recommended two important bills in this area, both ensuring the implementation of the constitutional rights of citizens living in nuclear-risk zones. One of the laws relates to conducting an advisory survey, an advisory referendum, on the placement of a nuclear installation or an object designed to deal with radioactive waste. The real participation of the territorial communities in the discussion and proposals for the placement of objects that may have a negative impact on the environment is ensured. On the first reading, the bill received the support of 376 national deputies and all parliamentary factions. The second law is aimed at improving the living and working conditions of citizens in areas of nuclear risk. It is proposed that a special State Budget fund be set up to be accounted for by an operating organization. A target-use mechanism is being put in place to allocate funds to these needs, as well as the participation of the territorial communities in their distribution. The adoption of these two laws will not only protect the rights of citizens, it will contribute to the further development of nuclear energy. Finally, I would like to emphasize, obviously, that the Presidential campaign is politicizing the session hall. Regrettably, in the Supreme Council, it should not avoid pre-election rhetoric, but it should not prevent it from making decisions that benefit the country and people. I've called for mandatory voting slogans, so vote for the law. Because all political demarches in Parliament have no or no relation to overcoming the economic crisis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u9	Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u10	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Yesterday, the country celebrated the day of the medical worker. It's a country, because medicine isn't the subject that applies exclusively to people who work in it, it's everybody's business, it's a sector that everyone needs to think about, because somehow everyone goes through it, everybody goes to the doctors. Those who remember the times when doctors, like teachers, were respected people in society, today find it difficult to appreciate the devaluation of their professional status. In the 1990s, the nurse’s salary was more than three living minimums, and the doctor — almost six. Now these are 2-3 times less, and even the minimum of living, you can't call it adequate. In fact, the workers were faced with a choice, or service, or family feeding. And the scary thing is that the people we trust in our own lives actually have or are not the lowest social positions in society. As a result, there is a steady flow of personnel in medicine. Think about it, if Kiev lacks more than a thousand doctors of different profiles, 10,000 nurses, what about the regions, the country's farm and midwifery sites? There is virtually no cost of development and treatment, as the entire budget goes to the salaries of medical staff and hospital utilities. The drugs have to be bought to the sick, and the clothes and equipment in the hospital are for the medical staff themselves. So on the one hand, the state guarantees free treatment, and on the other hand, there is no such money in the state. As a result, there are no guarantees of quality of health care. Little wonder about this background is the lack of confidence in home hospitals, self - care, and, as a result, low levels of health and high mortality. And it's not just the financial problem, it's the distribution problem. The state has the opportunity to throw 50 million dollars into question in order to combat an unexplored disease while there is insufficient funding for the treatment of researchers and the more frequent. Every election, every year during the adoption of the budget, political forces claim to think about medicine. And nothing changes every time. All the strong proposals for reforms remain proposals, regardless of whether they are state programs or regulations. Because all that is being proclaimed is being stopped by people interested in preserving that disruption in medicine. This has been the practice of family medicine for about ten years. And what do we have? By 2005, family doctors had predicted that 35 percent would satisfy the population, and for 2009 only 30 percent would be covered. Hence, no one simply needs to find out the facts of the complex health situation, nor can there be reform for reform, in order to cover up their mistakes. So today it is vital to draw medical attention to the patient’s interests. But this is not the case when medicines that are of questionable importance are advertised when the manipulative methods of the population are used to induce the symptoms of pseudochaemia. And it's all for the profit of the narrow circles. More than 60 percent of these drugs are estimated by experts. And the citizens are buying them because they've written them down because they've seen the commercial. As a result of the uncontrolled spread of medical advertising, the problem of self - medication has become extremely acute. And today, representatives of the Lithuanian Block are already preparing, representatives, a bill that will require all the advertising of medicines to accompany the threat of self-medication. And a person will choose whether to put his health or his or her loved ones at risk or to seek professional help. And most of all. Providing quality care to patients is only possible if the doctors themselves are socially protected. And so would their professional aspirations. The State guarantee of free medical care also requires proper treatment of those who carry it out. A project on granting the status and corresponding privileges of the civil servant to medical personnel was introduced by the Lithuanian Block. And this is not a special approach. Because the need for such changes has long been recognized in developed nations. It is used in practice in Germany, France, and Scandinavian countries, where a large number of civil servants work in the health sector. The same protection for those who protect our health also requires the interests of the entire Ukrainian population. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u11	Dear colleagues, the factions are over. Regarding the proposals made by authorized factions, I ask the secretariat to prepare appropriate letters and letters to those involved in resolving the issues raised in the presentation. With regard to Dmitr's offer, namely, insistence on the resignation of the Minister of Education and Science. So let's move forward here, dear fellows. As we agreed on the Conciliation Council, there will be a meeting of the Conciliation Council at 12 o’clock with the participation of the leaders and authorized representatives of the MPs. We will discuss personnel proposals and determine what draft decisions will be proposed at the Supreme Council of Ukraine at 12.30 p.m. With regard to the proposals made by Mikolia Martinenko to consider two bills relating to the protection of the population from nuclear energy and the development of nuclear energy, I ask you to pick up these documents, and we will agree on a time at the Conciliation Council to consider them. With regard to Bill 4503, on amending the State Budget, you know, where there are many discussions about the Supreme Council of Ukraine, this proposal is that the President of Ukraine sign a decision on the allocation of funds for the purchase of insulins and other medical programs, so that after considering the first two issues, we will consider this bill and make a final decision, because you understand very well that the President of Ukraine will decide whether or not to sign this document will take 15 days. And the Supreme Council of Ukraine concludes this session on July 10. That is why we need to make this decision today. Is there no objection? None. Now, honourable colleagues, we are moving on to a second reading of the bill, namely the Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Budget Code, registration number 2709. [[new editor]] Dear colleagues, I will now put to the vote to see the readiness of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to make such a decision, in accordance with article 28 of the Rules, I will put the matter to a vote. In accordance with article 28, paragraph 11, the chairman of the meeting has the right to conduct a rating signal vote to predict the outcome of the vote of the day’s plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please, Ivan Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u12	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! My presentation offered this vote to publish in the newspaper Voice of Ukraine, so that people could see how we care about local self-government: we care about slogans during election campaigns or real voting in the hall. Vladimir Mikhailovich, everyone has heard and we propose to publish the results of this vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u13	Thank you. I could only add one more suggestion to this: if we vote to get everyone to read this bill and see what innovations will be introduced. That's why. Please. Also from the examination procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u14	Dear colleagues! From the voting procedure, as Ivan Grigorovitch asked, I also want to say that the very right direction is to provide budgetary resources for local self-government, which unfortunately, in the editorial that is now proposed, takes up the last rights in the local self-government, because everything is proposed to be centralized in the capital of Ukraine by the city of Kiev in the Cabinet of Ministers. Moreover, without the Supreme Council, the Ministry of Finance is given the right to manage the entire budget and to transfer the funds from one programme to another, and the rule-of-law of the Cabinet of Ministers is transferred to those functions that are the exclusive competence of Parliament. And many others have moments to avoid propaganda what does not exist. Therefore, please vote, determine, publish, but the Head of the Supreme Council rightly says what is important. It would be important if everyone consciously understood what we would vote for.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u15	Dear colleagues, there is no objection to the proposals being put to the signal vote at this time. Article 28, paragraph 11, of the Rules of the Supreme Council? I'm betting on the vote. Registration number 2709. We will see the readiness of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please vote. [[10:34:46]] For 251 The will is to consider and make decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Let's move on to a practical review of the document. The factions, please. Region Party – 0, Timoshenko Yulia Block – 155, Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense – 51, Communist faction – 26, Litvina Block – 19. [[B in m in s a l in]] What's the offer? Please. About what? Please. I'm asking the block initiators to speak on what, say, blockage. What five? One minute. Please, who's going to perform? Justify yourself, please. Three is like three. I think why did this people get dragged into the session room today?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u16	Dear People's Deputies, the Government of Timoshenko has once again deceived you. It is not at all that the country does not need amendments to the Budget Code. It is not at all necessary to strengthen the local budget base. The issue is that Timoshenko is going to the election of the President, and that is why she needs to build all 12,000 local budgets in order to build the Cabinet of Ministers. And who likes it is to build the whole country, who likes it, a good budget, who doesn't like it, a bad budget. What it means is at least a rule which, after the adoption of any law that affects the income or expenditure portion of the budget, after the adoption by the Supreme Council on first reading, cannot be considered by the Supreme Council without the positive conclusion of the Cabinet of Ministers. That means you're being suspended from any bill that either regulates the tax area or customs matters and so on and so on and so forth. Such two norms as I have just said are not in any budget code, nor in any budgetary legislation of any country in the world. What are you doing? The next unique rule by which the Cabinet of Ministers has the right to redistribute all budgetary assignments on its own, in agreement with the so-called budgetary committee, where you have a majority. So that means you're removing the Supreme Council from the budget. Find at least one country in the world where Parliament does not have an impact on the budget. Now, what problems people are facing right now. Yeah, first of all, it's a minimum of living. First of all, they are social standards. Do you decide with these amendments to the Budget Code, which the Government has put in at the last minute, to solve these problems? Nope. What are you providing local budgets with additional resources? Nope. It's a lie! You take from some, you give to others. Are you creating new sources of resources in local budgets, in rural councils? Nope. You expose budgets, you allocate resources to other budgets. Many of the norms of the so-called Budget Code, as you have just proposed, have been created in haste. The goal is to introduce the country into manual management during the electoral period. They're not thoughtful, they're not systemic, they're confusing. Therefore, we must not deceive the people. We have a principled position, and we are ready to work beyond this principled position of strengthening local self-government.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u17	Yes, dear colleagues, well, one minute, please. So let's now exchange thoughts from each faction on this point. I'll just say one thing: I have to work on the committee. These arguments, Mikola Janović, need to be taught on the committee and go to work. [[Applause]] And I'm going to the faction leaders and committee leaders, because otherwise they won't be financed. And when it is said that it is a shame to go to the Supreme Council, put in your mandate and do not interfere with the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s work. [[Applause]] It's a shame to walk, but the committee doesn't work. And I want to tell you, in the Budget Committee, almost half are members of one faction. Why the committee doesn't work. Why isn't he sitting down, why are you coming and blocking the rostrum? That's where you have to stand for these positions, and I agree that you can't limit the powers that are constitutional, but at the last moment when you have to vote, I get a phone call in the morning, you can't put this law on the table. Where were you three months ago?Oh, my God! One minute, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] And once again, committee heads, ladies and gentlemen! - Come to work and see the Conciliation Council on Monday. Please, Baby. Then who will speak from “Our Ukraine ”?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u18	Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. I want to report that yesterday I witnessed with my own eyes how Mikola Janović Azarov was letting the team not come to the budget committee meeting. For eight months, the bill for amending the budget is on the budget committee. No suggestions that were, they were all considered, more specifically, the codex is on the budget committee. Our opponents, who today are so keen on local self - government problems, do not appear at any committee meeting to consider these amendments. It's actually a pharisaic, but what's happening in this room right now is that it's not Timoshenko's presidential election that's going to the presidential election, but it's going to the presidential election, including Azarov being the head of the electoral headquarters of one of the presidential candidates. And in order to destroy local self-government, not to provide additional financial resources to support this self-government, what happens today is what we see in the hall. Yes, indeed, the government takes away.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u19	Yes, "Our Ukraine", Skutak. Zing Skutak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, Your Honor Vladimir Mikhailovich! The bill, which is now being introduced in the second reading, of course brings chaos into the Ukrainian budget system and it cannot be accepted. We voted in favour of its inclusion only in the agenda to show this absurdity of the proposals made today in the Budget Code: this is the transfer of the budget into manual management, which is unacceptable. Transfer. It's chaos to put into areas and areas, it's 12,000 budgets. The Ministry of Finance, where there is no theoretical basis for bringing these budgets to. In place, that's 10 percent of the profits left in the territory, that's 19 times the difference, 19-20 times. And the budget code is ours.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u21	Please, the Communist faction, who will it be? You're not from the Communist faction if the Communist faction passes the vote, please. No one's going to come out of the Communist faction? No one's going to speak from the Lithuanian Block? Please, I can't see. Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u22	Simonenko's Communist faction. Respectable voters, respectable colleagues! First. No country budget for years of independence has been in line with the budget code and has never been ultimately established on the basis of the Budget Code. Secondly, there is no development programme to finance and promote development in today's context. Thirdly, today, governments and administrations have become those who, in fact, are redistributing the State's finances into their personal pockets, burying them and hiding them. Thirdly, there has been a meeting of representatives of the heads of the rural councils who have supported this idea, and in this situation, we Communists believe that this concrete measure will contribute to the revitalization of the territorial communities in the struggle for their rights. And they will be able to use these funds for targeted programmes, i.e. the role and responsibility of the territorial communities and the specific citizens today, by meeting at the next session of the District Councils, the city and district councils. We are.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u23	Who? You're handing over the right to speak to John Krilenck? Please, Kirilenko. Rubinsky gave him the right to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u24	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I'm talking to the faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear friends, notice two things. The law is in force as of January 1, 2010. What presidential election? What are we talking about? What argument is that? On January 1, 2010, we should forget about the presidential election. And the second is the second reading procedure. I'm talking to Alexander Volodymyrovich, the second reading procedure: if the article is not accepted, there are no votes for it. This is the procedure of second reading, we go in an article and we vote in favour of the law. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, we're on the move to review the bill. The Supreme Council has been identified, we're on our way to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u25	Dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts on the subject. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please calm down from the factions. It's not a rally. Please, listen, please, please, please. You have a wide field on the budget committee, you have a discussion there. So let's move forward, there are two proposals, because the Rules require us to look at all the amendments, we can now go after all 603 amendments and each vote, even that amendment that is counted or unaccounted for to be supported by the Supreme Council of Ukraine is the first proposal. And the second suggestion now that the Supreme Council of Ukraine continue to work, and the faction leaders have gathered to agree on a position so that we don't adopt this law in such an atmosphere. What's the offer? Shall we?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u26	The other one. So now we're going to consider the next bill. Alexander Volodymyrovich will hold meetings. Leaders of the MPs. [[B in m in s a l in]] Who? Well, dear colleagues, please. So here, at the blocked rostrum, which could be a replica, Alexander Sergiyovich. Please. At the blocked rostrum of a replica? Look, please, I respect you very much. [[(U in m in s a l i.]] Once again, there are no replicas in the blocked rostrum because everyone says what they think is necessary. So, your honors, I also have a request from the leaders of the MP factions to meet in the office of the Chief of the Supreme Council. We are about to move on to the next bill, the Supreme Council, and I would also ask that we now consider Bill 4503 – this is about amending the budget in part of the financing of the Ministry of Health. We have to accept it in a new edition, taking into account the comments of the President of Ukraine. So let's get back to work. There's no basis for an incident. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u27	Dear colleagues! Please take up your jobs. Please, Mikoli Janovićarov's replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u28	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! I would not advise the President of the Supreme Council, whom I have known for many years, to evaluate our work, that is neither his right nor his duty. Now, basically. Unfortunately, the budget committee, which must be established behind the opposition, is in the hands of the so-called coalition. And through the budget committee in which most so-called coalitions print, I don't use a second word, all the use that the Cabinet of Ministers is destroying the country. That is why we cannot participate in the work of this committee until it moves on to the real opposition. That is why this is our requirement, the budgetary committee, as it is in any normal parliament, must be controlled by the opposition, only then will we be able to place this Government, which is destroying the economy, destroying the budget and administering the country manually.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u29	A draft Law amending some of Ukraine’s legislative acts has been announced for consideration with a view to overcoming the negative effects of the financial crisis. National deputy Arzvetin Stanislaw Mikhailovich reports.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u30	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that Bill 3585 is a comprehensive bill that deals with money-credit issues, issues addressed by banks by the State and the Bank, the National Bank. I would like to remind you that this bill is being implemented during a period of financial crisis. To this end, a working group was set up on the committee to consider more than 80 amendments to the bill. We met five times and actually took into account all the proposals made by the factions. I would like to go to the Deputies of Lazko, Klimenko, Carmazin, Voropeiev, and others, and thank them for their suggestions. But their proposals were essentially not considered in connection with the fact that they were subject to the consideration of individual bills on our committee. So if it's rejected here, it shows that we're going to be looking at it in a comprehensive, separate bill. I would like to remind the MPs that this bill, these laws of the bill, deal with issues relating to the moratorium on evicting people from their homes. The bill also prohibits monetary credit for natural persons for non-productive purposes. There's learning left, there's treatment left. Norms are set for the issue of foreign exchange loans solely in cash form. In view of the fact that we have a systematic default today, which indicates that we have a problem with the return of deposits, we have put in place a new mechanism for the formation of reserves for commercial banks in the event of prolonging problematic loans. And I think that's going to enable commercial banks to resolve the conflicts that today are born between a client and a bank. In fact, we share the opinion of many deputies on the committee that we continue to allow citizens not to pay taxes on interest on deposits by 2013. I think it'll give us an opportunity to fill the banking system with deposits. In turn, the banking system will make appropriate loans. With regard to our committee’s decision, our committee recommends that the Supreme Council adopt the bill as a whole in a second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u31	Let's move on to the amendments. Amendment number one. The committee recommends support. Is there any objection to taking this amendment into account? None. Amendment No. 2 of the People's Deputies of Poluniev. The committee recommends a rejection. Is the National MP insisting on his amendment? Don't insist. The 3rd amendment of the People's Chamber of Pisarenko. The committee recommends that we consider it. Is there a denial? None. The 4th Amendment of the Seminoga People's Deputies. The committee's proposing a rejection. Is the National MP insisting? Don't insist. 5th Amendment of People's Deputy Kravchenka. Is the National MP insisting? The committee's proposing a rejection. Don't insist. 6th Amendment of the People's Deputy of Boguslayev. The committee recommends a rejection. Is the national deputy Boguslaev insisting? Don't insist. The 7th Amendment of the People's Deputy of Boguslayev. Don't insist. The 8th Amendment of the People's Deputy Lazko. Is the MP insisting on his amendment? Don't insist. The 9th Amendment of the People's Deputy of Teryochin. The committee's proposing a rejection. Is the people's deputy Teryohin insisting? Don't insist. The 10th Amendment of the People's Deputy Klimenko. Is the National MP insisting? No, it's not. 11th Amendment of the People's Deputy of Arjevetin. The committee recommends that we consider it. Is there a denial of national MPs? I won't. The 12th amendment of the Voropeyeva People's Deputies. Don't insist. The 13th amendment of the People's Deputy of Poluniev. Don't insist. The 14th Amendment of the People's Deputy of Voropeyeva. Are you insisting? No, it's not. 15th Amendment of People's Deputies Klimenko. Is the National MP insisting? No, it's not. The 17th Amendment of the People's Deputy of Teryochin. Don't insist. 18th Amendment. Is Crotz's national deputy insisting on his amendment? Don't insist. 19th Amendment. Recommends approval by the committee. Is there no objection? None. The 20th amendment of the People's Chamber of Pisarenko. Is he insisting on his correction? Don't insist. 21st Amendment of the Seminoga People's Deputies. Is the MP insisting? Don't insist. 22nd Boguslayev. Is there a miscalculation? None. The 23rd amendment of the people's deputies, Teryochina, has been rejected. Don't insist. The 24th amendment of the People's Deputy of Poluniev. Is there a denial? None. 25th Amendment. Is there a denial? None. 26th Amendment. Is there a denial? None. 27th Amendment. Is the People's Deputy Klimenko insisting? Don't insist. Is there a denial of 28 amendments? None. 29th Amendment. There's no insistence on a national MP. 30th Amendment, Deputy Klimenko. Don't insist. By 31st, is there a miscalculation? None. Is there a miscalculation in the 32nd? I won't. Thirty-three. National MP Lazko, do you agree with the editorial proposed by the committee? I'm good. 34th Amendment. There's a miscalculation. None. 35th Amendment of the People's Deputy of Arjevetin. Is there a denial? Which one? Please come back. 34 revisions. There's a denial regarding the National Deputy Carmazin. Please, National Deputy Carmazin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u32	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment changes the position we have adopted in our first reading and establishes that the size of the insurance reserve created by the increase in the gross cost of the financial institution cannot exceed: for commercial banks, 50 per cent of the total liabilities, for non-bank financial institutions in size, established by the relevant laws on the relevant non-bank financial institution, but not more than 50 per cent. I believe that the article has been changed in comparison to the first reading and its contents are completely distorted. So I would like to confirm by voting this amendment to the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u33	Mr. Stanislaw Mikhailovich, please, the committee's arguments.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to comment. The point is that this standard forbids commercial banks to make more than 50 percent of their reserves from the general loan portfolio. So this works as a limiting norm so that banks don't abuse or increase gross costs by more than 50 percent of their loan portfolio. So I don't think we've fundamentally changed, this first reading has also been a restrictive norm, the only thing we've been looking at before New Year's, and because of the deterioration of the loan portfolio in the context of the financial crisis, we've raised the bill a little bit. But it's like a limitation board for commercial banks to have direction. So, frankly, we worked with the main accountants of the two state banks, and we worked with them, including the National Bank. So I propose to support the committee's proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u35	Amendment 34 of the people’s deputies Arjevetina and Polunieva are voting to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u36	Your Honor, I'm asking you to support her.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u37	I'd like to make a statement. [[11:01:20]] For 139 Correction not supported. The 34th amendment is deleted. 35th. Wait a minute. All of it! 35th Amendment of the People's Deputies of Arjevetin, Poluniev. The committee recommends support. There's a denial of national MPs. None. 36th Amendment of the People's Deputies of Arjevetin, Poluniev. Is there a miscalculation? None. 37th Amendment. Is there a miscalculation? None. 38th Amendment. Is there a miscalculation? None. 39th Amendment. Is there a miscalculation? None. 40th Amendment. Is the deputy Lazko insisting on his editorial? MP Lazko insists on his amendment? Don't insist. The 39th amendment of the microphone, please, the People's Deputy Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, here's a question for the 39th amendment. This is Yuri Carmazin. Look what's written here. To determine the income or expenses of the taxpayer from the increase-increase in insurance reserves, starting with the tax period in which the law takes effect, on January 1, 2009, we calculate the amount of insurance reserves formed, i.e. we distribute the law for the past time: on January 1, 2009. I don't understand. And then there's paragraph, see, the second is the same amendment, 2214. And for the period from 1 January 2009 to 31 December 2010, 100 percent for banks, 80 percent for non-bank financials. So the point is that this amendment contradicts the Constitution, in a large way. And it has to be removed, I'm asking you to vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u39	Please, the committee's arguments.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, this is about a technical amendment, so that we can report the relevant periods on the first and first dates. It's not about the formation of reserves; it's about the control dates, the reporting dates, the accounting tax returns, to keep a proper, correct, logical comparative picture of the formation of reserves. So it's not spreading, it's basically an editorial that, including tax inspection, has offered us to adjust the correct mapping of the reserve from the control date. That's all it's about.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u41	Amendment 39 of Arjevetin and Poluniev’s national deputies are to vote for their support. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:04:31]] For 271 Correction supported. 41st Amendment, National Deputy Boguslayev. Is he insisting? No, it's not. 42nd Amendment. Is there any objection to having the committee edited? None. 43rd Amendment. Is the national MP Lazko insisting? Don't insist. 44th Amendment. Is there a miscalculation? None. 45th Amendment. Is there a miscalculation? None. 46th Amendment. Is there a denial? None. 47th Amendment, People's MP Pisarenko, is editing the committee? It's fine. 48th Amendment? It's fine. The 49th Amendment, insists the national MP, Harowski? Don't insist. The 50th Amendment of the People's Deputy of Carmazin. Are you insisting? Please, microphone to the People's Deputy Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u42	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, do you remember the title of the bill? It is called the amendment to some legislative acts aimed at overcoming the negative effects of the financial crisis. That is to say, the consequences of the financial crisis that affect the entire population of Ukraine, which is now in the line of the Imexbank in Odessa, Kiev, Nadrov and so on, and so on, refer, in particular, to what I am now correcting. I am correcting that it should be written that the fourth part of article 4 should be put in the following wording: “The National Bank is not responsible for obligations of other banks, except where the National Bank limits the right of users of services to use their funds, by applying measures of influence to banks whose activities are checked by the National Bank, in accordance with the Banking and Banking Act.” Other banks are not responsible for the obligations of the National Bank. We have cases where the National Bank has restricted the rights of citizens, i.e. against the Constitution. I ask you to vote for this amendment and I do not understand why it has been rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u43	Please, the committee's arguments, Stanislaw Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u44	Ladies and gentlemen, this is only part of the amendments proposed by the People’s Deputies. In fact, our committee is looking at a separate bill, 4024, which was submitted by the national MP Carmazin, who we are looking at in a complex way. And all of these norms, which are written down and submitted to this bill, we're looking at the complex in that bill. That's why we asked Deputy Carmazin that we're on the committee looking at his separate bill and there's no logic in the pieces from that bill to install here, that's the first. Secondly, it wasn't the subject of the first reading, so I'm addressing you. We're looking at these proposals, but in another, complex bill, 4022. That's why we removed him and delegated him to that bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u45	Amendment No. 50 of the Karmazin People's Deputies is to vote for support. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:08:09]] For-22. Correction not supported. The 51st amendment, is there a objection to the committee's drafting? None. 52nd Amendment, is there a objection? None. 53rd. Is there a denial? None. 54th, is there a objection? None. 55th, is there a denial? None 56th? National MP. Up to 53 amendments, please, National Deputy Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u46	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, please see what we accept. I'm not talking about the fact that three letters of observation from the Scientific and Experimental Authority, with the general conclusion that the bill, including the title, needs substantial refinement and re-imposing of the second reading, which I'm asking you to read. But look, we take into account the amendment where in Article 31 we record, in particular: “The minimum size of statutory capital at the time of registration may not be less than 75 million dollars. [[Dot]] The National Bank of Ukraine does not have the right to demand a change in the statutory capital of banks registered before the law enters into force, except in cases provided for by legislation.” In other words, each of the 180 banks that now exist and abuse Ukrainian citizens, each of these banks will function without responding completely to the legislation that we are adopting for the crisis period. And we're taking tools from the National Bank. Is that normal? So I'm asking you not to support this amendment because it goes to the detriment of Ukrainian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u47	Please, the committee's arguments.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u48	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to explain to you that this is all about other things. The point is that today our legislation states that the statutory capitals of our Ukrainian banks are forming in euro, 10 million euros. We keep asking why we have our money unit called the bracelet, why are the statutory capitals in our legislation measured by the foreign currency of the euro? That's why we removed the euro, and we recorded an adequate amount in the bracelet, and that's essentially technical, and there's no problem with who's going to work or not work. There's a national unit called the bracelet, and the statutory capitals have to be measured in the bracelet. You can imagine when today the euro jumps and every day in banking, accounting should be adjusted accordingly. Why? This complicates the accounting situation, and in large numbers we have our own money unit, called the bracelet. So I ask you to support this proposal so that you can transfer it from the euro to the bracelets.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u49	The 53rd amendment of the People's Deputies of Arjevetina is a vote. I'd like to make up my mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u50	Please support me. [[11:11:23]] For-200
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u51	The decision is not taken. People's deputies say they didn't understand your last sentence, please repeat the point.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u52	Ladies and gentlemen! This is about the fact that in statutory capitals we remove the standard in euros and we write it in bracelets because the national currency is the bracelet, not the euro. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u53	Thank you. One sentence, we're moving the euro into the bracelet, please. Amendment number 53. [[11:12:09]] For 350. Correction supported. Dear colleagues! Since we are considering every amendment and we have had one vote, the MPs have not been able to hear the arguments, we voted once again, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure we return, please vote again on the substance of Amendment 53. [[11:12:54]] For three hundred Correction supported. Amendments made by 56, 57 national deputies Teryochina have been rejected, and he agrees. 58th Amendment. Is there any objection to the committee's recommendation on accounting? None. 59th. National MP Lazko insists? No, it doesn't. 60th Amendment. Is there a denial? 61st Amendment. Is there a denial? 62nd. The Seminog National MP insists on his amendment? Don't insist. 63rd Amendment. Deputies of Lisov. Don't insist. 64th. Is there a denial? 65th. Is there a denial? 66th. Seminoga's national MP is in favor. 67th. People's deputy Poluniev insists on correction? Don't insist. 68th. National MP Lazko does not insist on correction. 69th. People's Deputy Kowal, are you insisting on your amendment? No, it's not. 70th. People's MP Klimenko insists? Don't insist. 71st. People's Deputies of Poluniev. There's a miscalculation. None. 72nd. Is there a denial? None. 73rd. Rejected amendment of the People’s Deputy Arjevetina, Poluniev. Do you insist, Stanislaw Mikhailovich, on voting after his amendment? Are you insisting or not? No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u54	I don't insist, it was about.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u55	74th Amendment. Is there a miscalculation? None. 75th. Is there a miscalculation? None. 76th. Is there a miscalculation? Yes. Please, the microphone of the People's Deputy Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u56	Dear National Deputies! Yuri Carmazin. Notice, please, that of the comments given by the Scientific and Experimental Authority, most refer to the so-called Final Provisions, where changes are made to the article on banks and banking, to the order in which foreign currency accounts are made, and so on. Including whether we're improving people's lives today or not, when we're recording, when the first reading was giving commercial banks consent to borrowers, i.e. with each citizen within a year of restructuring, conducting them. This gives us the right to carry out the restructuring according to agreement. “Produce” and “ conduct” are slightly different things. The restructuring of loans issued by the bank is still being distributed until 01.10.2008. Why 2008? This is a fundamental limitation on the rights of citizens. Next. Loans with a nominal value of less than 1 million dollars, including foreign currency denominations at the official rate.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u57	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u58	I'm perfect. Dear National Deputies! I believe that this rule makes citizens worse, we deprive them of their rights to judicial protection, to protect their interests, and it will not be in the interests of citizens, of every individual citizen. This amendment is designed to lobby interests solely of the Bank’s capital and no one else. Thank you for your attention! Please don't support her.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u59	Please, Stanislaw Mikhailovich! Your argument.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u60	Ladies and gentlemen! I'd like to comment again. It's about debt restructuring, it's about a moratorium, and in this bill we said that not all credit agreements fall under this rule, but only those that start from the crisis period, so we gave a specific date so that everyone who wants to be abused doesn't. We took a specific date, this is from 01.10 that were on the balance sheet, first. It's different. If we're talking about people, the moratorium for people, not the Elite Center, we've written in this bill that loans that are not more than 1 million dollars to protect people, not everyone. What I was talking about is "Elita Center". So I think that's a fair rule when we're talking about mortgage loans to people. Next. We have prescribed in this bill that if a bank restructures such a citizen, the state will give him the right to make reserves at the expense of gross expenses. You don't want to restructure for this mortgage loan, you don't use that right, you don't use that right. We recorded a moratorium. If this agreement is being implemented and two or three months of interest payments are allowed, the banks are not entitled, i.e. a moratorium is being introduced on evicting from such housing. Plus, we wrote that if this agreement is being implemented, two years later, the banking institution has the right to be self-sufficient in relation to part of the principal debt and interest. Please tell me, isn't this standard clearly prescribed for people in the mortgage lending sector? I don't understand your comments, Mr. MP, this norm that we've agreed on for four months in all directions. That's why I'm asking you to support me. This is a logical position where liability on mortgage loans relies on banks, if restructuring relies on the state if this restructuring is done. That is, the cost-of-banks. Please tell me this is the most logical way out of this stalemate situation in the mortgage market. So I'm asking you to support this, I'm sorry, out-of-the-way offer in this part.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u61	Amendment No. 76 of the People's Deputies of Poluniev, Arjevetina and Lazko take the vote, please identify themselves.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u62	I'm asking you to back me up. [[11:19:31]] For 266 Decision taken. Correction supported. 77th Amendment. The committee recommends that it be considered. Is there a denial? None. 78th Amendment. Is the national deputy Krutz insisting on his editorial? Don't insist. 79th National Deputy Tarasyuk. Don't insist. The 80th Amendment of the People's Deputy of Poluniev? Don't insist. 81st Poluniev, too. Don't insist. So you and I have considered all the amendments that have been made after the adoption of this draft law on the first reading. I am voting on the second reading of the draft Law amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts aimed at overcoming the negative effects of the financial crisis, number 3585. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:20:55]] For 346 In the second reading, the bill was approved. Stanislaw Mikhailovich, I have a question for you. If you don't mind. Stanislaw Mikhailovich, you have a question. During the consideration of two amendments recommended by the committee, the session hall was not supported. Is there a need to work out this draft law so that there are no internal contradictions?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u63	I only remember one thing. We haven't voted for one amendment where it's about to stop banks from forming more than they do.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u64	I don't really ask. So there's a need to work on it from your point of view?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u65	I think we should take the whole thing, and that amendment, so that we don't hold the bill, because they've been waiting for six months, we're going to give them separately, and we're going to explain why we have to do this.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u66	Thank you. Please record Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u67	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. It's a wonder you're going to put it somewhere separate. Where are we going, and to what law? This law when the Council voted one by one, and you're going to write another? You can't do that. One more. I don't know why no one asks about the conclusion of the General Legal Department. I fear that tomorrow or tomorrow we will again be put before the fact that the judiciary will come and say, "We need to vote on the law." For the conclusion of the legal administration is a general conclusion: “The law, including its name, requires substantial further development and rereading. I mean, legal administration doesn't just, like, give you the law that you've adopted today and put us in the next place before the fact that we're voting for something that we don't know what. So I'd like to explain what your reaction to a fairly substantial three-page review of the General Legal Authority is?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u68	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Right now, we're having a re-reading procedure. So the proposals made by the Chief Legal Authority were taken into account by the committee, according to the authorised representative. Please confirm that. Stanislaw Mikhailovich Arzvetin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u69	In fact, we have taken into account, of course, part of these observations, but when it comes to violations of the Constitution, there is a shipment, we have been looking into our committee, which means “the Constitution is being violated”. For example, if there is a 180 - day return norm today, the Constitution does not regulate such issues. [[90 days or 180 days]] This is regulated by domestic legislation. And we still have the right to regulate it in the law. And that's why they say that lawyers conclude that this is a violation of rights because there have been so many days. Would you please tell me, if there were 180 days, the Constitution is broken? What if 90 days, the Constitution is broken? That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u70	Thank you, Stanislav Mikhailovich. Please have a seat. Dear colleagues, we have a decision to make with you right now: shall we pause for the committee to work, since there is a proposal by Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, is to understand that there is a need to bring a certain standard into line. If you insist that this text, which is, is enough to prevent us from going back to it, we have the opportunity to now adopt this bill as a whole. A proposal in general? This question is no longer for second reading, it is after a second read. If there is a specific reference to a specific norm, we can refer it to a third reading. Is there a reference to a specific norm? Please repeat the microphone to Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u71	Thank you. I'm going to read again, and I'm going to read another submission from the General Legal Authority that part of the comments have been taken into account. But the remaining comments of the Chief Executive are not taken into account. Three counts, I don't know, there's 10 or what, the rest doesn't count. So once again, the Chief Legal Authority will put us back in line with the fact that you didn't take our comments into account, please do it again. vote. So would it not be better for everyone right now to agree on these proposals, which are now voted two in a different way than it was suggested, to take into account and finally agree with the Legal Department, so that it makes a bill without notice so that we don't look like a laughing stock again? Because we're about to pass the law, and tomorrow or tomorrow we're going to re-vote the law at the request of the Chief Legal Authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u72	Dear Adam Ivanovich, the Legal Office helps us to work. We have never been asked to do so, and it cannot do so by its very nature, for it serves us. So the decision will be made here. I ask, please, only then, the arguments and what should be transferred to the third reading if this is necessary. Please, it's Deputy Carmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u73	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! Unfortunately, Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk is now 300 percent right because under the text of the bill it says that. With notes. The text of the comments goes in particular, and in particular, there are installed violations that are seen by the Scientific Expert. I see a violation of the Constitution where we're talking about. Amendments to Article 5 of the Law on Taxation of Business Income, which sets out the specificities of referring the costs of banking institutions to the gross expenses of a tax payer on a list approved by Nutzbank. Then. The third paragraph states that it is envisaged to amend article 51 of the Nazbank Act; to establish that Nazbank is to provide information on a quarterly basis other than the President, the Cabinet of Ministers, the Committee on Banking and Banking on financing operations and so on. However, this contradicts the 89th article of the Constitution and so forth. So you can't accept a bill as a whole, you have to clean these things up. All of it. And that's very easy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u74	The proposal of the people’s deputies Martinyuk and Karmazin for the third reading of the draft law is a vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:27:48]] For-30 Offer not supported I am betting on voting for approval as a whole as a bill of amendment to some Ukrainian legislative acts aimed at overcoming the negative effects of the financial crisis. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:28:19]] For 362 The law's been passed. Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin proposed that we immediately deviate from the schedule of meetings for today and consider the following issue of the remarks by the President of Ukraine to the Act amending the Law on the State Budget for the current year. Is there a denial? There's a denial. Okay. I would like to propose that we now consider the President's remarks to the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the 2009 Act on the State Budget of Ukraine. Please be sure. [[11:29:26]] For 368 Decision taken. Please, Alexander Vitaliyovich Schlapak represents the point of view of the President of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u75	Dear Lord Chairman, distinguished national MPs! On June 3, 2009, Parliament passed the Act amending the Law on the State Budget 2009 and certain other laws. The first article of the Act proposes to amend the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget 2009 to provide for the increase of the expenditure of the Supreme Council's apparatus, in particular for the provision of parliamentary services, organizational, informational and material and technical support for the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the visit of national deputies abroad, the disclosure of their activities, the financial support of the Sanatorium and Curiosity Complex, the management of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and the capital repair of the Parliament's housing fund – 97 million dollars. At the same time, Parliament's decision was taken in terms of deficits in budgetary resources and acute shortages in terms of life-orientated policies such as treatment and timely detection of patients with HIV/AIDS, cancer, tuberculosis, when Ukraine's State Budget 2009 Act for the purchase of cancer patients' medical supplies projected expenditure was only 35 per cent of the need identified by experts at the National Institute for Cancer. And funding for the State programme “Child Oncology” for 2006-2010 has been reduced in general compared to the previous year. So this decision, the President believes, is extremely unacceptable and cannot be justified. Instead of spending 97 million dollars on funding the following programmes, the President proposes to increase the expenditure of the Ministry of Health to finance the establishment of a national bone marrow transplant centre under the budget programme “Centralized measures for organ and tissue transplantation”, on cancer treatment and on AIDS treatment provided by the Children's Oncology programme for 2006-2010; on the budget programme for the provision of medical measures to combat tuberculosis, prevention and treatment of AIDS, on cancer treatment; on the increase in the expenditure of the Ministry of Regional Development and on construction to provide subsidies to the state budget for the district budget of the Cherka region for the completion of the construction of the district hospital in Cherkasa. The President of Ukraine is asking Parliament to accept this decision and believes that today's budget deficit will be socially just and justifiable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u76	Is there a question for the reporter? There's a question. Please sign in. Baby Oleg Grigorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u77	Oleg Laszko, The Yuli Block of Timoshenko. Dear Alexander Vitaliyovich, sharing the President's position on reducing the cost of maintaining the state apparatus, yet why didn't the President suggest, for example, reducing the costs of State administration? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u78	Dear National MP, in the draft law. which is proposed for your consideration and proposed by the President, it is said that, together with you on the Committee of Budgets, we should consider the costs of State administration in matters, including medical services. I just want to remind you that medical care. which is carried out by the State Administration, it is not only for the benefit of national MPs, people working in parliament and so forth. So if we find expenses that need to be reduced there with you, we'll do it with great pleasure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u79	Georgik Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u80	Dear Alexander Vitaliyovich is known to be the subject of this bill not only of expense but also of income. At the same time, all the president’s remarks relate only to the expense portion. I have the following question: has the President's secretariat analysed the possible consequences of the adoption of this bill, which has resulted in a double increase in tax burden on subjects in the entrepreneurship of the beer industry, which has suffered a serious decline in the state of affairs today and has bankrupted more than 10 businesses in the past year alone? Has it been analysed that this will not only result in an increase in excise duty but also in income from income tax and value added tax? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u81	Thank you. Mr. Jaroslav, I'm only going to report on the President's position in today's veto. And it probably doesn't exactly count for me to go beyond that veto. But frankly, this question was certainly studied at the President’s Secretariat. If that's the case, let me be honest, I was personally against raising such excise rates, because I think the consequences will be exactly what you're talking about. But I couldn't convince the President to use this argument in promising this law. The president has long thought about this position, but he has had to listen to the Parliament that has adopted this law by a constitutional majority, and to the government that doesn't think that there will be any negative consequences that you're talking about. And then I'm left with you to count on the following: in the first months of this law, we have to analyze whether these predictions that you're talking about will come true. If you don't bring in the Lord, that's the way we're going to make all the decisions we need along with you in order to bring back the regulation of the beer industry that we had before this law was enacted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u82	Slobodan Alexander Viačeslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u83	Alexandro Slobodan, Ukrainian People's Party, National Union of Ukraine. The honourable reporter, the rise in the tax crisis twice, is, in principle, an immoral approach. In addition, the laws of Ukraine, article 92 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Tax System Act, the Code of Budgets of Ukraine, the Rules of the Supreme Council. Do you share the point of view that this is a violation of a very important one, and this law must be committed by the President unequivocally?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u84	Mr. People's MP, thank you for asking. I answered that question, how did I know, when I answered the previous question? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u85	National MP Gordienko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u86	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Poltavščina Dear Alexander Vitaliyovich, I would ask you and the President not to speculate on this veto today. I'd like to get some attention, including the radio audience that we are. Today, everyone is so passionate about people, and they're baking about drugs, they're baking about HIV-infected people, and they're baking about TB. But remember when the National Budget of Ukraine was approved, and my colleague Yuri Haydajev and I made it clear that this was not foreseen in the State Budget. And they said it was on both the "art arsenal" and the planes, and the maintenance of the residence, and for a lot of things. Why, then, did the President not promise and today he promises? And the next. I don't want all the arrows directed at Parliamentarians and national MPs today, the national MPs here in no way. But today, those who work in the Supreme Council receive twice as much equipment as they do in the Office of the President and in the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Don't waste it, Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u87	Thank you. First of all, I want to explain once again the logic of the President's actions. Parliament has decided on the additional revenues of the State budget and has decided how to divide them. Divided for the program “Lvivska Voda”, divided by for. The cost of other objects is, more faithfully, absolutely fair. At the same time, 97 million decided to put Parliament’s support into extremely important programmes. However, once again, I emphasize that the President here is more inclined to the point of view that you are now talking about, when we form a budget, obviously the revenue that we can get today should be directed at more important programs. And these programs, I take it, you're in solidarity with the president in this position, they're in the plane of health, first of all, not pay. As for the level of wages, I can say once again that the level of salaries of government officials is the same as that of the President's Secretariat and the Cabinet of Ministers, as well as in Parliament. If there's a need to check this information, let's do it through the budget committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u88	Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u89	Thank you. Oleg Zarubinsky, Block of Lithuania. Dear Alexander Vitaliovich! In principle, in the meaningful part, everything is clear, and in the end, it's obvious that the entire room will support all the proposals. I just don't understand why around the veto, in principle, it's a normal procedure, so much advocacy and propaganda campaign is being carried out to discredit the next Supreme Council of Ukraine. What's left to do? There's a veto, everything else, you don't have to set up this agitprop. In this regard, I have a specific question for you. I'm obviously going to put a bill on the return of expenses to the President's Secretariat, to Kabmin and to the Supreme Council in 2007, which is about 30 to 40 percent less, because then in 2007 these institutions didn't work any worse than they did now, they had enough money. Will the President be vetoed for such a bill? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u90	Mr. Oleg, it's too early to talk about which law the President will veto. Taking absolutely into account and sharing your position that the veto is a perfectly normal legal process and a process that testifies to the economic relevance of a document, we will talk about it when it is accepted. With regard to some propaganda work, I report here quite correctly, I think in terms of legal, economic, the President's veto, I would like to support his proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u91	Bondarenko Volodymir Dmitrovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u92	Vladimir Bondarenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Mr. Reporter, of course, such noble things are written in the part where the President proposes to use money. But I think that the commission that worked with Mr. Kulikov in Kiev has shown that these centers are the most corrupt financial resources, and hundreds of millions of them are being stolen. By the way, the blood center, it's located in the district where I work, and there's really a problem in this center, but the main problem is that there's no large-scale transferable materials bank in Ukraine, there's good buildings, but there's actually no work, because there's no such bank. So obviously this money has to be tied up more clearly and to make it clear that we're switching not to another barn that's going to stand for decades without any use, but to some really real program. Well, I support Mr. Zarubinski, who's really proposing to cut expenses for the Secretariat and various services, including an adequate salary for everyone, because they're human.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u93	Please finish the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u94	Because both the Secretary of the President and the Service Services of the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers have roughly the same qualifications as the people needed for the proper functioning of these organs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u95	I can only say that I share your approach fully, let's, if we reduce the cost of keeping the Secretary of the President, the Cabinet of Ministers, the Parliament, the resource that we're going to reduce, we're going to send to those medical programs that you're talking about, or to other programs that Parliament will decide on. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u96	Samolikka Katerina Seminovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u97	I would like to continue with my colleagues, who have spoken on many occasions. I'd really like to know where, for example, the President's Secretariat was, why he didn't tell the President, who was very busy with government affairs when the Ukrainian State Budget was adopted. Because look, they were doing so well for Artek, and there was no change in the State Budget. The spirit did not make any order for this. And didn't we also talk about the fact that we really need to spend money on tuberculosis and tuberculosis and that kind of thing, and we talked about it. And I want to say it from myself. I'm very often treated in a hospital, and I want to tell you, Mr. President, that no amount of medicine is spent from the State Budget, all the drugs we buy are for ourselves, they only treat the President, his mother-in-law, his family, his loved ones, and the Balogs! Here you go.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u98	Alexander Vitaliyovich, you have no comments, no answers?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u99	No, I'd like to answer that with your permission. I think it would be a very good call not to politicize the issue that we are currently considering. So I would like to tell you, Mr. People's Honourable Deputy, that just as the President is being treated, the people's deputies are being treated as well, and there is no expulsion today. So, with regard to unforeseeable resources for Artek, since you've touched on this issue, the state administration of matters in its budget query has provided for a travel request. Unfortunately, however, Parliament did not support such a decision by driving the situation into a deadlock and we should all be correcting it together. When revised, by the way, it was agreed that 60 million dollars needed to support Artek will be taken from the Cabinet of Ministers, the Secretary of the President and Parliament. In this case, however, 20 million were taken only to the Cabinet of Ministers. The president signed this law silently and did not argue. So let's not keep the accounts going now, when we solve this problem, who more or less is involved in financing these social programs or other social programs. I believe that the proposals made by the President are fair and I would like to vote for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u100	Thank you. Please have a seat, Alexander Vitaliyovich. The report is the Deputy Head of the Committee for Budget Affairs, Lásko Oleg Valeriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u101	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! In accordance with article 133 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues considered proposals by the President of Ukraine to amend the Ukrainian Law on Ukraine's State Budget for 2009 and some other laws adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 3 June 2009. On the basis of the consideration of this issue, the Budget Committee at its meeting on 22 June 2009, Protocol 39, adopted a decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine partial support for the proposals of the President of Ukraine to the Ukraine Act amending the Ukrainian State Budget Act for 2009 and some other Ukrainian laws to exclude provisions on the increase in the expenditure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the amount of 97 million dollars and corresponding to an increase in the amount of revenue due from the overrun of the cost-effective expenditure of the National Bank of Ukraine and the adoption of this law in a new edition as a whole. At the same time, in the Final Regulations of such a law, it is proposed that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, together with the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues, should make proposals on the financial provision of necessary socio-economic and medical measures, and recommend that the State Administration make proposals to reduce the costs of ensuring its activities. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u102	Please sign up for the question. And while the recording is coming up, let me ask you, Your Honor Oleg Valeriyovich, one very important question is not a very good one. The committee has given us a comparative table now for consideration, in which, along with the proposal of the President of Ukraine, there are also proposals from the Committee on Budget Affairs. The Constitution of Ukraine does not contain the subject of a legislative initiative as a parliamentary committee. This right belongs only to the national deputies of Ukraine, the President of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers. Obviously, all we have to do right now is consider the proposals of the President of Ukraine, take them into account in whole or in part or not at all, and agree or disagree, overcome the veto or fail to overcome the veto. And we can't do lawmaking right now when we have an unconstitutional subject that offers us something. Please answer that question.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u103	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, I agree with you, you are quite correct in your observation. And it's just that, given that the committee recommends that the President's proposals be partially taken into account, we're just clarifying the corresponding numbering when you pay attention. So we're cancelling 97 million from the laws adopted by the Supreme Council 03.06. 2009 And the right column is where without this 97 million. And if, from a formal point of view, please do so with the suggestion of the national deputy Laska, not the committee, but Laška. These are technical moments.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u104	It's a constitutional moment, not a technical moment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u105	Kulikov is also ready to join us.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u106	In order to move on to the next question, I will ask Alexander Vitaliyovich Schlapak to say whether, in the form that is currently printed in the table, the Committee's proposals correspond essentially to those proposed by the President of Ukraine. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u107	Ladies and gentlemen, what the committee is proposing is not contrary to what the president has proposed. The president came out of the following logic. Since the National Bank has actually given an additional 97 million, they are already in the budget, obviously they can also be asked about their redistribution. The Supreme Council did so by allocating these resources to Parliament directly. The president proposed a different distribution. Now it's being suggested, as I understand it, to remove this 97 million from the income and not distribute it, instead, in the Final Positions or in the Budget Committee, I've once again looked carefully at where to send these funds and then maybe make additional proposals. If such a law is passed, I will recommend to the President that he be supported, and then the budget committee will be able to work together on those programs. Perhaps those who were offered by the President, perhaps what was being done today by honourable parliamentarians, were being corrected. From the point of view of Parliamentary right to accept such a document, Alexander Volodymyrovich, this is your question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u108	Please ask, Vladimir Dmitrovitch Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u109	Vladimir Bondarenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Yesterday, on the committee, we had a heated discussion of this issue, looking for a solution to the situation that had formally arisen. We understand that the President's proposal in this case is not about a simple desire to help in any other direction of economic and social policy in Ukraine, but rather, in order to show society that it is so harmful to the State that the Supreme Council, which you can see for itself, allows for such freedom. I want to point out that this money is scheduled for the Supreme Council to go to pay the wages of those who have worked and worked and hopefully will work. Otherwise, these people just won't get it. So come on, we've already decided that we're going to turn this money into a medical course, let's do this. But I would like to point out that the President's Secretariat has not reduced the direction that is really necessary for the state. I was at the Academy of Public Administration yesterday. They're practically being reduced by reducing the set of personnel. It's not normal. Ukraine has not prepared enough.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u110	On this point, I would also like to point out personally that, unfortunately, the issue of this bill has become more political, though in fact, and rightly noted here by colleagues from the Communist faction, from the Lithuanian bloc, that the President, in a harsh way, has decided on this issue to stand up. In fact, where does that 97 million go?? The same salary is paid to the employees, which everyone, starting with journalists, MPs and the President's Secretariat, the administrators' employees, is paid for by the people's members in hotels, because the Supreme Council doesn't pay. [[six months or one year without payment]] To cover the outstanding debt that arose in 2008 under the reconstruction of the administrals for the salaries of employees of other structural units of the Supreme Council. Not a single penny to the MPs directly, there was no law to keep them. But unfortunately, they turned it into a political issue and that's why the committee did.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u111	Alexandrovska Alla Alexandrovna
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u112	Please pass the word to Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u113	Thank you, Alla Alexandrovna. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, Alexander Volodymyrovich, I fully support your question to the rapporteur from the committee, and I would like to point out that if we go to the committee now, we will be violators of the Rules. We can send the committee according to Article 135 of the Rules the law on processing, but let us at least formally endure. Maybe even let's do it this way, and now we're going to vote for it to be redesigned, and in the afternoon or tomorrow we're going to vote in a new edition. Because once again, the 135th article does not give absolutely any right, if we do not overtake the President's veto, to enact the law in a new edition. And it needs to be formally, but it's written like that, it needs to be redesigned. This is one moment. The other one. Only then can amendments be adopted, not even by a committee, but by deputies when they have already worked on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u114	Complete, please, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u115	There is no such right or power on the committee before the veto. So I suggest, let's, really, we're going to now make a decision according to 135 to get the committee to work on it, and in the afternoon we're going to adopt its law in a new form. Then we will not violate the Rules and the President will have the right to sign. Or adopt a 300-vote law, overcoming the veto, even though it is not necessary to overcome the veto.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u116	Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u117	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished fellow national MPs! At its meeting yesterday, the committee considered the President's proposals and today is proposing to you, as I have already said, to recommend that you partially support these proposals in part of the removal from the body of the law on the increase in expenditure on the Supreme Council's apparatus and to adopt this law as a whole in a new edition. And we have the right to do that. It's not a violation. The committee identified itself yesterday at its meeting.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u118	Pavlovsky Andry Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, a reputable reporter! Do you agree that before the President vetoed, he had to start his own economy and cut at least 30 percent by keeping his loved one, his own administration, his own residences, his own plant, and so on? And by the way, please name the amount as a member of the Budget Committee, what total amount is going to be going to keep the President and his family and his residences? By the way, they say they're about 14, these residences? Should we start saving on this?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u120	Unfortunately, for me, as well as for you, the number of presidential residences under seven seals is a mystery, yes. Because we already have these residences in every district center. With regard to the financing of expenses for the maintenance of the Presidential Secretariat, the committee recommended that the State Administration make proposals for the reduction of expenditure and the provision of its activities. As I understand from the report of the President's representative, they don't object to looking at this issue in terms of cost cuts. We hope that the words, as they always do, will not go away. And such a step will be taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u121	Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u122	Thank you. I'd like to give the floor to the deputy, Mr. Jaroslav. Jojik.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u123	Jaroslav Jojik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u124	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People’s Party. Dear Mr. Oleg, we are witnessing today how the Supreme Council of Ukraine imposes criminal responsibility for the theft of more than 60 dollars, as well as life imprisonment for bribes that have received more than $10,000. All expert opinions indicate that the introduction of this law will result in the bankruptcy of dozens of enterprises, tens of thousands of unemployed and substantial under-receiving of budget revenues. So, don't you think that the results of lobbying and reviewing this bill and the analogous ones to it need to provide for responsibility for those involved in pushing economics.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u125	Complete the question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u126	Do you not believe that following an analysis of the bill's progress, responsibility should be provided for those who engage in prosecutions for well-known economic criminal decisions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u127	Thank you, Mr. Jaroslav, for asking. I fully support you that when a Lobby decision is “stretched” in the Supreme Council, those who are “stretching” should be responsible. In this case, it's a government bill proposed for consideration by the Supreme Council, where, on the one hand, it's proposed to raise excises on beer, and we understand that you are exactly the representative of who you're talking about. On the other hand, to direct additional revenue from this to the provision of insulin to the people, to the provision of water to the lions, to the reconstruction of the Shevchenkov Reserve in Canoe. And I think you, as a representative of the Ukrainian People's Party, who always advocates national consciousness and orientation, should be the first to vote for this bill. As far as I'm there was a question from the previous speaker about the amount of State administration expenditure, in this year's budget, a billion 200 million dollars. And for the Supreme Council, less than 800 million.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u128	Dear colleagues, the question-answer has been completed. In view of the inadequacy of the work of the Committee on Budget Affairs, I would like to ask the head of the Committee and the head of the Supreme Council’s Office to draw attention to the work of the budget committee secretariat so that we do not receive any more documents that do not only meet the Supreme Council’s Rules but are not in line with the Constitution of Ukraine. This does not make it fair for the Ukrainian Parliament. The other one. In view of the fact that we have now considered in detail the essence and the President's proposals and the position of the committee, I would like to make a proposal if you would support it, so that we can now put to the vote a question on the support of the President of Ukraine's proposals, which he has made, in an editorial paper that he has worked on in a profile committee. If such a proposal is supported, then we can vote on it. If not, then we still have no right to consider anything, we can only send it back for work. Is there any objection that we should approach this issue in this way? There's no objection. Then I put to the vote the President of Ukraine's proposal in his statement, in an editorial drafted by the committee, taking into account, in part, the proposals made by the President of Ukraine and the adoption of the law as a whole in the new edition. Please be sure. [[12:01:33]] For 343 Decision taken. The law in the new edition has been adopted and will be sent to the President of Ukraine for signature. And Alexander Vitaliyovich has already assured us that he will recommend the head of state to sign under this law. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 32 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u129	People's deputies please take up jobs. The question of the appointment of the President of Ukraine's next election is under review. Dear colleagues, we have three draft rulings on this issue. I want you and I to consult on the procedure for dealing with this issue right now. Since it has been very lively and actively discussed both in and outside the session room, in the parliamentary committees and in society, I would like to suggest that we listen to the authors of the three draft regulations and are determined, without discussion, to support one of them. Will there be any objection to such order of action?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u130	No objections? If there is no objection, then we will now hear the authors of the three drafts of the Order, and then we will make a decision. I invite you to the floor of Ukrainian National Deputy Andrija Vitaliyovich Shevchenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u131	Gentlemen, I think today is a special day. I very much believe that today Ukraine will finally be granted the final date of direct presidential elections, recognized by all political actors. A year ago, when we started discussing the date of the presidential election, we were warned that the appointment would be problematic. And the only way to get it. The only way to hold elections so that no one will doubt their legitimacy is to reach political agreement on the date of the elections. I will remind you that I was the author of the decision that was proposed to hold the December 27 elections. Today, I'm not going to get excited about my date, or go up against other dates. As before, I believe that both December 27th and October 25th and November 22nd and January 17th and January 31st, each of these dates has a legal logic, and none of these dates are irreprehensible from a legal point of view. I'm glad there's a political consensus in the room, as far as I can see. I'm sorry he fell for January 17th, not the date I suggested. As before, I also consider the date of January 17 to be irreprehensible, at least because we continue to authorize President Yushchenk to act for two months. But I think that poor clarity is still better than very beautiful, but uncertainty. So for the sake of agreement in the hall, I'm calling off my draft ruling. I have just registered with the Supreme Council's apparatus my application to withdraw the ruling of which I am the author. I'll pass a copy of this ruling to the chairman. And finally, I want to say that as the Ukrainian Parliament, we need to learn a few lessons from this story. The first lesson is very simple: even the most important law of the country to which the Constitution is, must be written so simply, so clearly, so clearly that it does not cause any ambiguity. Lesson two: We need to learn to resolve matters that are very important to the country in advance when they arise, not at the last moment when the cock is already pecking in a place where it is sometimes very painful. And last lesson, I think we should remember that the problem of ambiguity in the Constitution is not solved by today’s vote. And I want this room, just as we voted four hundred times in one day, just as we vote today for another date, so we have 400 final votes here for the formation of the Constitution that will not cause ambiguity. I would suggest, for example, that we elect the President every day on the first Sunday of November. And that means that after the New Year's, after Christmas, we could celebrate the inauguration. At the end of the day, most importantly, I'm very glad that there's agreement in the hall, and I'm happy that today the country will get a presidential election date. I call on the Hall to support the political decision and vote on January 17, 2010. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u132	Thank you. Have a seat, please. I invite you to present your draft national deputy, Moskal Gennady Hennadyyovich. He's gone and he doesn't insist, I understand, on his project. Dear colleagues! Vladimir Mikhailovich is currently holding meetings of the Conciliation Council with representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers. So, with your permission, I'm going to present his project, which is to appoint the President of Ukraine's next election on Sunday, January 17, 2010. And there are two other points that apply to the orders of the Supreme Council and other state authorities regarding these two points after we have communicated with Vladimir Mikhailovich, he does not insist that they be present in this decree. I'd like to invite you from the People's Chamber, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u133	Dear voters! The Honorable Presidium! Dear National Deputies! This morning, the committee discussed all three draft rulings at its meeting, and there was a very lively discussion. On the basis of popular considerations, the committee could agree to the date of November 22, which is when the country entered the new year with the new president. But taking into account the situation today in the country, in the legal field, and above all with our Constitutional Court, which very often makes decisions not only by legal logic but by some other argument. And the last decision he made on the terms of city, rural, village heads only confirms that. So the committee conducted the first rating vote on all the projects, the committee commissioned you to bring this rating vote to you for the first draft of deputy Shevchenka, and all the committee members abstained. The Moskal People's Deputy Project held four, “for” five out of nine present, and for the Litvina Vladimir Mikhailovich project “for”-8, against – one, held – zero. The committee therefore proposes to support regulation 4477-2, but make changes to paragraph 2 and make the following changes. There are words to say that the first week of June, the plenary week of June 2009, should be replaced by the last plenary week of June. So on the last week of the plenary, this week, which is today, we actually consider a bill amending the President's electoral law, changing the electoral process from 120 days to 90 days. That is the conclusion of the committee that you were given this morning, and the committee is asking for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u134	Thank you. Please have a seat. Before we are determined by vote, for the reasons of the vote, please Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich. Is there a need for a vote to be made to anyone who wants to? Okay. Please excuse me, Yuri Anatolyovich. For reasons of vote, please write down who has his thoughts and opinions. Please excuse me, I gave the floor to Karmazin Yuri Anatoliovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u135	Yuri Carmazin. "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense Party." Dear National Deputies! Clearly, we do not want to discuss what is a political consensus. But let's see if there's a consensus in us and who gave us the right to just hand out two, three months of extra authority. Part one of the 103 articles of the Constitution states that the term of office of the President, the activity of the President, is five years. Five years and not a day more! And no Supreme Council can usurp the right to continue someone's mandate for at least one day, and here it goes on for more than two months if you count the process. So there is a clear contradiction between part one and part three of article 103 of the Constitution. The Constitutional Court deliberately bypassed this contradiction, realizing that he was the one who had to determine it. So I object to such a date and ask that you set a date that would not allow for an extension of authority.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u136	Knyazevich Ruslan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u137	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, apart from the relevant committee of profile, this expert opinion has been given by the Committee of Legal Policy, whose exclusive powers are the subject of constitutionality. And it clearly defines a date that is no longer the Constitutional Court, but the Committee on Legal Policy defines only the faithful and the one that corresponds to the Constitution of Ukraine, namely, January 17th. What's more, I would ask you not to dig a hole so that we don't get there. I'm noting that there is a similar rule for determining the terms of the next election, and for Parliament, the last week of the last term of office. So that it does not happen that by manipulating someone else’s powers, we will get there ourselves. And the last. However, I would ask that the two points in Lithuania's decision not be taken, because above an important point, it is still a change in the legislation on the election of the President of Ukraine. As long as it stays in line for the second round of 2004, there's no point in even determining any date that's clear what the results will be, because no one's going to make any mistakes in 2004. In view of these circumstances, I would like to cut back and proceed immediately.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u138	Please make a point.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u139	To begin consideration of this issue at this sessional week, because we have one sessional week left. And as for the regulations, when you take them, I'm pointing out that there are inadequacies to that, by manipulating what seems to be in the Constitution is a term that should be done in six months before the elections. No, six months before the election, the President is disbanding, dispossessing Parliament. And the law goes on to say 130 days before the election. If we make changes, then we can manipulate this term because we're reducing the company. It's not the solution, it's the problem with the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u140	Stoyan Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u141	Of course, it is regrettable that Yushchenko is clinging to the President's chair, saying his words like a lice behind a fur coat. I give the rest of my words to Olenia Lukash. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u142	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw attention to part three of the draft decree, where, in particular, the Central Electoral Commission is obliged to ensure the functioning of the national voter register. Given that not everything depends on the Central Electoral Commission, please clarify this item or add another sub-item of this content. The Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, the State Department of Execution of Penalties, Care and Care, Health Institutions, Social Protection Institutions, Specialized Institutions, which account for homeless citizens, diplomatic representatives and consular institutions of Ukraine, military commanders of formations, and mainly rural, village, city heads.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u143	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u144	Thank you. ensure that the authorities keep a register of information about the electorate. Why am I asking you to add this? Because we are aware of cases where, in particular, the Ministry of Internal Rights does not provide up-to-date data to the registrar authorities, leaving the Central Electoral Commission alone with the central executive authorities and representatives of the local communities, we will receive current data from the State Register before the electoral process begins. I believe that if we are obliged to do something by the CTC, we should pay attention to the central authorities of the executive branch and the relevant cities, there, the village heads, as I said, the need to provide up-to-date complete data on citizens to the register authorities. And please put my proposal to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u145	Miroshenko Yuri Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u146	Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear voters, dear colleagues, you know, our faction will support the draft ruling prepared by the Chief of the Supreme Council with the adjustment that applied to the place, which was the first plenary week of July. [[And this is 4477-2.]] And what is the point of such a question? Because the definition of a date is orderly, including the activities of all the political forces that are preparing for the election of the President. The other one. When we talk about the need to give exactly January 17th, we agreed entirely with Comrade Carmazin on the purity of the President's trial and mandate, but at the same time there is a decision of the Constitutional Court, and you remember that we voted on another date, but the Constitutional Court did not allow us to act in such a legal logic. Today we have to make decisions, this decision is based on, including the Constitutional Court's decision, and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u147	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u148	And so let's actually put a dot on the political legal debate about the date of the election and start working quietly, and prepare for that date. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u149	Dear colleagues, allow me, as the author of the draft decree, to express my vision within the limits of the Rules. I would ask and ask my fellow national MPs to support the date of January 17 as data, and at the same time, I propose all other items, such as the 90-day proposal, as well as the mandate of the CEVC and the Cabinet of Ministers to register voters, to withdraw, because we have exchanged thoughts, we have concluded that the draft decree should contain one point in this regard. But together with the decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to set a date for the presidential elections, we, as a protocol commission, can record these positions. So I thank you for your understanding and I expect that we will make a decision today to put an end to all sorts of political conversations. Dear colleagues, in accordance with the Rules, I will put to the vote according to the registration. The first is draft regulation 4471-1, by Hennady Moskal. [[Shevchenko made]] He proposes to appoint the President of Ukraine for Sunday, November 22. I'll put it to a vote. The Supreme Council of Ukraine will be appointed, please. [[12:48:55]] For-42 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, the draft decree is now in the vote, the author is the national deputy of Litwin, of this content. [[Registration number 4477-2]] According to article 85, part five, paragraph seven, of article 103 of the Constitution of Ukraine, taking into account the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine No.10-RP of 12 May 2009 and with a view to organising the proper legislative process for the election of the President of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides: first, to appoint the next election of the President of Ukraine on Sunday 17 January 2010. Period. And everything else will be formulated as an assignment. I'm betting on a motion for a decision on the appointment of the President of Ukraine's election on Sunday, January 17, 2010. Adam Martinyuk. Take down the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u150	Thank you. Vladimir Mikhailovich, taking into account your proposal for what you're filming, you're proposing not to vote, and I think that the second and third paragraphs of this regulation are absolutely correct, I suggest you take a look at the wording of the operative part. Perhaps the words “for the purpose of providing for the organization” and so on in view of the fact that there is no second and third paragraphs, should be clarified. That is to clarify the operative part and vote in general for the order.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u151	Dear colleagues, the warning is correct. Please, Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u152	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! It is perfectly logical that you said that you should leave only the date “17 January” in the draft regulation, but that was a very substantial amendment by Elena Lukas. Let us incorporate Elena Lukash's amendment in this decree and there will be two paragraphs: “17 January” and what Lukas proposed.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u153	Dear colleagues, if you agree to such a proposal, we will then vote on a protocol commission and there will be a proposal made by Olena Lukas. So now I'm going to read the draft decree because it's historic and has to be consistent with the Constitution. The Supreme Council's draft decree on the appointment of the President of Ukraine's election. According to article 85, paragraph 7, of the fifth article of article 103 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides to appoint the President of Ukraine for Sunday, January 17, 2010. This decision takes effect from the day it was published. I'm putting this proposal to the vote. Registration number 4417-2. Please vote. The tenth year. Yes, in 2010. [[12:52:19]] For 399 Thank you. ‘For’ — 399. I'll take the order. Thank you, dear fellows, for our unanimity position. To your knowledge, the board was mislit on January 17, 2009. I remind you, January 17, 2010. And, dear colleagues, suggestions. If you allow, we will form a protocol commission for the Committee on State Building to process immediately for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine, providing for a proposal to study proposals to reduce the electoral campaign to 90 days, and to formulate proposals in the form of a commission to have Ukraine's voter register finalized. And the offer of Lena Lukash. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u154	Honorary colleagues, Lukas Olena, also proposed a commission to the Department of the Enforcement of Punishment, the Ministry of Justice, regarding their duties. My proposal will be the next one. The Supreme Council of Ukraine should not give orders to carry out the functions that these bodies have to carry out in their status, and they are designed to do so in their lives. If we already have such a problem as a separate electoral registry agency that provides the previous lists, they are being clarified again in the electoral commissions by the authorities of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Justice and the Department of State for the Execution of Sentences. It is their duty to do so. And I think we're going to have to do it in such a way that we have a real-time accounting of Ukrainian citizens who won't need any clarifications later. And today, both the Cabinet of Ministers and all the other organs have to do the work that they're created for and the functions that they're assigned to. And as far as the law is concerned -- it's scheduled for us today on Thursday for consideration, this bill -- and specifically the proposal to shorten the term of election can be considered, and it will be considered and supported, I believe in the session hall, but the Supreme Council of Ukraine should not give such an order, because it will be the exclusive right of the legislators. And that's going to be an initiative, and it's going to be implemented, because the project that's currently involved involves not a shortcut, but an increase in terms. But there's obviously an understanding that we're going to have to react to the position of the MP factions that have declared the need to shorten the terms of the electoral company. Vladimir Mikhailovich, so I ask that we do not remind the authorities of the positions that relate to the exercise of our powers and our work.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u155	Dear colleagues, let's make this decision: if the Supreme Council of Ukraine does not object, I will draw up an appropriate commission and send it to the relevant state institutions to respond to the proposals that have been made in this matter. And we won't vote. No warning? Roger that. Now, dear colleagues, let me inform you of the outcome of the meeting of the Conciliation Council of Ukraine. At the suggestion of the faction of the Party of Regions, we held meetings of the Conciliation Council, discussed a number of positions that sparked discussions, namely, in the new edition of the Budget Code. In fact, we agreed on all the points of discussion and agreed to materialize our arrangements in the process of finalizing the corresponding changes that we agreed on for the document that was prepared for the second reading. At the same time, it raises strong objections and arguments, both on the one hand and on the other, are important for Ukraine to move from 700 local budgets to 12,000 budgets. In view of the fact that we have not reached compromise here, we agreed that the working group is now working on the proposals that we agreed on, further substantiating the proposals and objections to the item on the 12,000 local budgets. At 3:30 p.m., we will hold a meeting of the Conciliation Council. If we have all the positions agreed on, then at 16 o'clock we'll come up with a practical solution. Váchaslav Anatoliyovich, if we have or will not. new disagreements, or we're not going to have a common position, we agreed in such a way that tomorrow at 10:30 we're going to come to this issue and we're going to vote first on the 12,000 budget proposal. If we support the Supreme Council, then we will be considering the whole law. But we agreed in such a way that as a last resort, tomorrow the Supreme Council of Ukraine will make a final decision at the morning session. I'm asking the faction leaders one minute at a time, if there's anything to add to the discussion at the Conciliation Council. Please, Ivan Grigorovich, then Alexander Sergiyovich, then the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u156	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Vladimir Mikhailovich, you have made a very objective report on the situation that has taken place in the negotiation process. We'd like to encourage our colleagues to work productively over these two or three hours. Unagreed positions are not that many. And we could put to the vote today at 16 p.m. this, without exaggeration, is an extremely remarkable document for our state. And then, Vladimir Mikhailovich, we discussed a number of other issues, including personnel issues. So we ask you to put to the vote now, the personnel issues we always have out of order in the day, put to the vote, there's the submission of the government, there's the Supreme Council, there's the release of the Minister of Transport of Joseph of Winsky. Please put him to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u157	Please, Alexander Sergiyovich. Then the Communist faction, then Mikola Martinenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u158	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. We support the proposals you have made. Indeed, we agreed on these proposals at the Conciliation Council. And I would like to ask our colleagues not to make an adjustment in addition to what we have already agreed. At the same time, Vladimir Mihajlovich, we would like to request that, on the day following the consideration of the Budget Code, a question related to the changes in the State budget to recalculate the subsistence minimum. We believe that this is the main issue today, it concerns practically all citizens of our State, beginning with budget workers, employees of enterprises, and ending with pensioners. And what the State does not pay today because of the level of inflation that has been experienced and because of the rise in consumer prices is a fact and we must remove this imbalance by voting in favour of the draft decision. With regard to Winski, we would also support the consideration of this issue, given.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u159	Give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u160	Given that this leader was practically an obstacle to the implementation of those projects that were in the eastern regions, in particular the Donetsk and Luhansk region related to Euro-2012. It is only because it has destroyed virtually all projects on infrastructure development, road construction and so forth that it is only for which he must be released from his post. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u161	Thank you. The Communist faction, please. Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u162	Simonenko, the Communist faction. I think it's necessary to ask you, dear colleagues, to consider these changes to the Budget Code, not the new Budget Code, but the changes to the Budget Code. And they're about to activate the territorial communities to protect their interests. And if they're directly going to get this money, so the budget, then let's say, at the same district level, the same territorial community of the area would already be with rural, rural, territorial communities to figure out where to use this money. Next. This is very important today in order to destroy that criminal structure of the President's vertical and not allow us to continue to abuse the heads of regional government over local budgets and use them as they wish. This will strengthen the capacity of the territorial community to develop social infrastructure in the countryside, because it is now neglected and destroyed. This will allow us today to maintain just the perspective, strategic direction of rural development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u163	Thank you, Peter Mikolaiovich. Since the faction of "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense," there's no one? Please, Igor Sharov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u164	Dear Mr. Head! Masterful colleagues! The Lithuanian Bloc will agree with the proposed Supreme Council of Ukraine to consider a draft law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code. Our faction today will take part in the work of the Budget Committee and we will be ready to consider the relevant issue at 4:00. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u165	We exchanged thoughts. Dear colleagues, this is a personnel matter. Attention, please. The Supreme Council of Ukraine received a statement from the Minister of Transport and Liaison of Ukraine, Joseph of Winski. I'll read you that application. “In accordance with article 18 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, I am applying to resign as Minister of Transport and Liaison of Ukraine. My statement is based on serious differences with Prime Minister Timoshenko on political, human and economic issues, as well as on the ethics of relations between members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. In addition, the prime minister of Ukraine is blocking the necessary reforms and allocation of the necessary funds for the construction of infrastructure related to the Euro-2012 Championship in Ukraine. Minister of Transport and Communications - Winski.” So the minister made a request to accept his resignation. At the same time, I ask your attention, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has received a letter from the Prime Minister of Ukraine, which I read. "The Supreme Council. In accordance with article 85, paragraph 12, of the Constitution of Ukraine, part two of article 18 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, I am submitting the application for the release of the Minister of Transport and Liaison of Ukraine. So, for your consideration, your esteemed colleagues, you will be offered draft regulations in such a sequence. The first is the release of the Minister of Transport and the communication for his application for resignation and on the basis of his resignation application. If the Supreme Council of Ukraine does not support this, then I will put to the vote a proposal by the Prime Minister of Ukraine, namely: the draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine: “To release the Vienna Joseph Vicentiyovich from his position as Minister of Transport and Liaison of Ukraine”. You know the difference. Please, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u166	Simonenko's Communist faction. Well, Vinsky, in my opinion, as in many other ministers, has to consider their responsibility and be relieved of their position rather than satisfy their applications to receive benefits before they retire, so let's say, wherever they work, wages are obviously paid. But there is another issue, and I would like colleagues to listen to it. In fact, a plan for the destruction of the Supreme Council and the holding of early elections has now begun to be implemented. That's why we need to look at all the ministers today. Questions have been raised on the subject of Wakarchuk, we are today asking questions on the Minister of Culture, on the basis of the Minister of Justice, we demand that in the complex all of them consider and are willing to vote in favour of their resignation, but only to consider, naturally, the responsibility of the other ministers in order to understand that this will be followed. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u167	Thank you! Dear colleagues! Today, the Supreme Council of Ukraine registers seven draft decrees for the release of relevant ministers. I am familiar with the faction leaders today with the relevant documents, the proposal made by Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, I think it will be possible to discuss it at the Conciliation Council meeting at 15 hours 30 minutes. Now, if you'll excuse me! I will be the first to put to the vote the proposal to release the Minister of Transport and to link him to the post on the basis of his resignation application. If it's not supported, I'll be the second to put forward a proposal by the Prime Minister of Ukraine. That's why I'm asking for your attention! The first is the proposal to release the minister of transportation and the relationship of Joseph Vikcentiovich Winski according to his resignation application. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:07:35]] For two. The decision is not taken. The factions? Please. Dear colleagues, a serious question. The region's party is 0, Timoshenko's "Clock of July"-2, all other factions did not vote. A draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the release of Joseph Winsky from office of the Minister of Transport and Liaison of Ukraine is being put to the vote. [[Registration number 4687]] I'll read it. “According to paragraph 12 of the first part of article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides: To release the Minister of Transport and Liaison of Ukraine from office of the Ministry of Transport and Communications of the Republic of Ukraine.” Please vote. [[13:08:32]] For 365 Decision taken. Alexander Stoyan, you probably want to give thanks, yes or no. Well, please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u168	Alexander Stoyan, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear colleagues, well, what Winsky wrote is his political break-up with Timoshenko, and what Tymoshenko made, I have a question about why she's releasing him. Timishenko at the press conference said that he was pianist for millions of dollars, that he was corrupt and all that. If this is true, it is not necessary to release the person who stole, despoiled, plundered the state. He didn't even know which car he was driving. He says I got a $200,000 ride, and as a transport minister, he didn't know this car's brand. It may be necessary to put an end to what is being stolen, robbed, and released at their own request. Then let Timoshenko break the criminal case, not just get fired, goodbye. Explain why she's letting him go.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u169	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has made a decision. So let's keep working. I have an offer, if you'd like, dear colleagues. In order for us to be able to make decisions more quickly, a big request, let's look at the relevant bills in a simplified way. Such an offer was discussed at a meeting of the Conciliation Council. I'm putting it to a vote, reviewing the bills on short notice. Please be supportive. [[13:10:17]] For 175 Decision taken. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act “For Economic Associations”, registration number 3488, 3488-1, is being announced for consideration. The rapporteurs are the National Deputy of Ukraine, Matvienko Anatoly Sergiyovich, Deputy Minister of Economy, Zyjelova Mikhailo Aleksandrovich, co-rapporteur, head of the Committee on Economic Policy's subcommittee, Yuri Mikolaiovich. Please, Mikhailo Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u170	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! The draft Law of Ukraine is designed to simplify the conditions for setting up entrepreneurial activities by reducing the minimum amount of statutory capital needed to establish a limited liability society from 100 to 15 minimum wages. The requirement for a minimum statutory capital in the establishment of a limited liability society equivalent to 100 minimum wages is equivalent to that of 100 minimum wages. First, it prevents the creation of new small enterprises, and secondly, it is one of the factors of low rating of Ukraine at the start of the company in 2008 – 128 places among 181 countries in the world whose business climate has been explored by the World Bank. The adoption of the law will facilitate the establishment of limited liability societies that will help create the right conditions for business development and improve business climate in Ukraine. Besides, I have another offer, let's say. Bo 2.06. In 2009, the first draft of the Ukrainian Act “On Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on Promoting Entrepreneurship” was adopted, which is the norm, registration number 4581, introduced by the National Deputys of the Kingdom, Kolesnik, Chechtev, Tomenk, Kaskov and Ljapina. The bill proposed the minimum size of statutory capital needed to establish a limited society with a limited responsibility to reduce to one minimum wage. So there is a proposal for us to vote on this law today. And to the second reading, he should be included in that law on the committee. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u171	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Yuri Mikolaiovich Voropeyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u172	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, good afternoon, Mr. President, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we have two bills that we are considering. One of them, 3488, is our colleague Matvienko and the other, 3488-1 is alternative, governmental. The difference between them is only one figure, which is proposed to establish how the minimum amount of statutory capital of limited liability societies is. There is a rule of the Business Society Act, article 52, which currently defines, as the previous rapporteur has said, this minimum amount of 100 minimum wages is 62 000 500 bracelets to date. Draft Law 3488 proposes to establish a minimum size of 1 000 250 bracelets, a government bill proposing a minimum amount of 9 000 375, i.e. 15 minimum wages. The expert office has considered both of these bills and both recommends that it be adopted on first reading, i.e. as a basis, but on both sides, it suggests that it be finalized so as not to move from one extreme to another extreme. The Committee, in considering the bill, our Committee on Economic Policy, recommends that the Supreme Council adopt draft Law 3488 of Matvienko. And reject the bill of government. However, given the opinion of the Chief Expert Office that we should not go to extremes when desert, fictitious firms are created and we have not made it easier for these individuals to establish any size of the minimum statutory fund at all, it is suggested by the expert management that an interesting norm should be established, I believe that it deserves attention, in order to establish, let us say, as our colleague Matvienko suggests.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u173	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u174	The minimum amount of the statutory fund is two minimum wages. But if the number of participants is five, seven, eight and so on, the statutory fund should have at least one minimum wage per participant in this society. The Committee therefore recommends that the Supreme Council, once again, adopt the bill on first reading and, until the second reading, finalize it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u175	Dear colleagues, the committee's report is complete. Is there a need to discuss matters? The difference is that Anatoly Matvienko offers to reduce from one hundred to two and the Cabinet of Ministers from one hundred to fifteen. That's the difference. And the committee proposes to adopt the draft law of our colleague, Mathienne, and then to reconcile positions. [[Registration number 3488]] Why don't we put it to a vote and make the right decision? No objections? That is why I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending the Law on Farming Societies (for the sum of statutory (compiled) capital of limited liability society). Please vote. [[13:17:11]] For 190 The decision is not taken. The factions? Please. Region Party – 114, “Clock Timoshenko” – 1, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” – 29, Communists – 26, “Clock of Lithuania” – 20, non-fractional – 0. A proposal for adoption is put to the vote on the basis of the draft Act amending the Law on Economic Societies (on the sum of statutory (commissioned) capital of a limited liability society). A government project. Please vote. [[13:18:00]] For 352 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, yours. your opinion is proposed by the draft Act amending the Criminal and Criminal Enforcement Codes of Ukraine to introduce a correction of the social behaviour of persons exempt from punishment and trial. [[Registration number 3329]] The rapporteur is Minister of Justice of Ukraine Onichuk Mikola Vasilovich. Coroner is the head of the committee's subcommittee on law enforcement activities, Gretzak Vasil Mikolaiovich. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u176	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The purpose of the bill, which is introduced by the government, is to introduce for those who will be able to be conditionally released from the execution of the sentence and the application of special programs for them, their correction of social behaviour. In fact, it is a matter of applying to such persons, such as this, to be common in the European community in special courses, referring to the specificity of the crimes committed by these persons in order to achieve their correction of social behavior. In fact, it is about social rehabilitation, social correction of the behaviour of these people, and in the same way it is important to reduce the number of people under conditions in detention. It is well - known that correctional facilities are only usually limited by will. But with regard to achieving the effect of social adjustment, resocialization, it is clear that it is better to apply other methods, one of which is proposed today. First of all, it's about being like that. Such a social correction of their behavior is applied to minors, since it is still a state of physical, mental development that is subject to such social correction. Who will do this? The government should approve the relevant programs and requirements for programs, and this work should be carried out primarily by the State Criminal Enforcement Service and youth centers, the families of the Ministry of Youth, Family and Sports. Please support this bill, which aims at overcoming and allowing individuals to be corrected because of their social correction. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u177	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Vasil Mikolaiovich Gritzak. The committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u178	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! We propose Bill 3329 on the amendment of the Ukrainian Criminal and Enforcement Codes, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers. [[on the introduction of a correction of social behaviour of persons released from trial]] It provides for the introduction of persons released from trial, mandatory social behaviour adjustment courses aimed at correcting the convicted person, his successful socio-psychological and economic functions in the future. The bill proposes to amend the Criminal and Criminal Enforcement Codes of Ukraine, in particular to complement the list of duties that the court may impose on a person exempted from the trial provided for in article 76 of the Criminal Code, with a new paragraph: “To go through the correction of social behaviour according to the relevant programme”; to complete article 13 of the Criminal Code with a new part of the content: “Criminal and Enforcement Inspection organizes and controls the conduct of persons released from trial, the rate of correction of social behaviour by appropriate programs, the order of development, the list of requirements for content and the order of implementation of which is approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine”. The adoption of this bill, as a law, will require financial costs for the development of corrective programmes by scientific institutions, training of staff, expansion of the area of service and the acquisition of equipment to carry out appropriate activities that are part of corrective programmes. The implementation of the bill, according to the Committee on Budget Affairs, will have an impact on the expenditure.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u179	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u180	The Legislative Security Committee, taking into account the agreed legal position of the relevant central executive bodies under Bill 3329 and considering that the novels introduced in this project are aimed at correcting the conduct of convicted persons or their individual manifestations, the formation of socially friendly personality changes that can be objectively checked to ensure the safety of society, employment and education of the convicted person, the prevention of a recurrence of crime, and so on, considers it appropriate to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, with the result of its consideration of the bill to support it in its first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u181	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is a need to discuss the bill. Please sign in. Please put the names of the deputies on the board. Yuri Carmazin and Anatoly Beaz
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u182	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Ladies and gentlemen, the purpose of this bill is absolutely good and worthy of support. It's about setting people free, going through mandatory social behavior adjustment courses aimed at correcting the convicted person and his successful socio-psychological and economic function in the future, taking into account the living conditions in which we are now living, especially the fact that we are living in a time of crisis. And today it is not only for those who have left places of deprivation of liberty or who have been sentenced on condition but also for Ukrainian citizens in general that it is difficult to find a job. At the same time, there are some points in this bill, which certainly need to be supported, which should be adopted in the first reading, but I would like us, or the committee now to hear from the voice of my proposals, then the bill can be adopted and in general or they need to be worked out. First. The law cannot take effect from the day of its publication because it carries financial burdens. He's carrying financial burdens, nobody's saying anything about it. So it's going to have to be written that since January 1, 2010. The other one. The term given by the Cabinet of Ministers just to confirm the list, the requirements for the content and order of approval and the implementation of the correction programmes of these persons, the two years that have been set, is also a very large term, because at this time the law does not work, and the progressive positions that are now in place in other countries that are being applied, we cannot adopt, unfortunately. I think we should write "up to the year" here, and that's exactly enough for the Cabinet of Ministers to work on. By the way, you can hear the Minister of Justice's point of view. And third, pending approval, it is proposed that these programs be approved so that the courts do not impose any obligation to correct this.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u183	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u184	This situation needs to be ruled out, because the law must be the same when it applies to everyone. And that's exactly what it's going to be, because these conditions are going to fall off. That is, the conditions of paragraph 3 will fall away in connection with the changes in paragraphs 1 and 2. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u185	Thank you. People's deputy Beales, Communist faction. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u186	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I would like to point out that the bill was in fact a failure to return to the Soviet system of special commands with a specific link between those sentenced with a delay in the execution of sentences to their homes and to a specific place of work. Regrettably, the main point is that special programs are being developed over the course of two years. Unfortunately, the minister here from the Supreme Council has not named us these programs. So this bill, as a minimum, is dependent on the air for two years. It would be better if the government in the same Justice Minister proposed a bill with specific government programs, then it would be a subject for discussion, and so it's just an empty conversation at this stage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u187	Vladimir Landik, faction of the Party of the Regions. Then Oleg Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u188	Landik, Party of Regions. I listened carefully to this bill, you know, it's normal, but it's normal after the Cabinet of Ministers had long ago to propose another bill, which I've been talking about here before. We've got convicts, except for what's for. The deprivation of liberty, and the prisoners with limited freedom, is probably unknown to few. And these convicts are in former military towns that have long been disbanded, they live there without security, families live nearby, but they have no jobs. That is why we must vote for a long time, and the Kabmin to calculate this in the budget, to send these people to social work: to build those roads that have been abandoned, to build those bridges that are not built, those hospitals, schools and so on. Where? The worker's salary will not be as it is here in Kiev, starting with thousands of dollars, or thousands of euros, they'll work for a thousand bracelets, and they'll be happy to have a job, and there'll be something left for the family and children. But we didn't see it in our Cabinet of Ministers, we didn't see it in the budget. So these are all social, like, you know, hiring a sociologist, hiring someone else, a psychologist, and telling a person, convincing him that without work, he might be useful to society, that he's re-educating. Only hard work can be reeducated, as was the case in Soviet times. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u189	Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u190	Oleg Zarubinsky, Block of Lithuania. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I'd like to go to my colleagues about this bill, because it reflects certain trends, perhaps not the best that are today. We are convinced that the criteria for supporting or not supporting the bill should not be the subject of its submission, we can treat the Kabmin differently, we can support it or not, but I think we should look at the bill in terms of its contents. Because this bill is not dedicated to the Cabinet, the official government, or the official government, it refers to people, people who are in fairly difficult circumstances at fault. But it also applies to other people who will be surrounded by people who are not prepared to live functionally, psychologically, or socially. So I think when it comes to resocialization or, in other words, rehabilitation of people who have stepped up in our co-workers, they need to be prepared for it. And so the proposal for special socialization courses, and I'd like to add compulsory courses, because they have to be set up by the court for one person or another, is one of the steps that allows a person to enter a society, a person who has retreated. And one more moment, let's look at the reverse method. If that were not the case, in those countries that we call advanced, developed, democratic and so forth, such training, such a system of training, once it has committed a crime to life in a normal society, has been in place for decades. So in the first reading, we can vote in favour of this bill, but we can really take into account the comments made by colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u191	The bill is closed. The committee is proposing to accept it as a basis, so I am putting this proposal to the vote, namely to adopt a draft law amending the Criminal and Criminal Enforcement Codes of Ukraine to introduce a correction of the social behaviour of persons who are exempt from punishment and trial. [[Registration number 3329]] Please vote. [[13:32:37]] For 299 Decision taken. Please, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u192	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished fellow MPs! We really need this law, we need society. So I would suggest in paragraph 1 of the Final Order that I write that it takes effect as of January 1, 2010, this is not contrary to the Budget Code. In the second cabinet, replace it from two years to a year and simply destroy the third. I have now agreed my position with the representatives of the Committee, and they find these proposals correct. I've also just notified them to the Ministry of Justice, and they also consider these proposals to be right. I'd like to take this into account, and I'd like to make your proposal to adopt this Law as a whole, so that it can start working, that we started to prepare, because there will be little time in Kabmin to prepare these programs, to list them, and to make corrections to these people anyway, so that they can find themselves in this life, so that we don't create any further crime. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u193	Adam Martinyuk, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u194	Thank you! Martinuk is a faction of Communists. Dear colleagues! First of all, our faction is firmly opposed to adopting it as a whole, as a law, because we were and I'm now going to explain why, and I'm surprised that my colleagues actually supported this law. What is the point if you translate into plain language? Today, someone adds to the responsibility of what to do with those who have been released so to speak, that they are guilty of going through the correction of social behavior according to the program, and this program will be made up of the appropriate body of the Cabinet of Ministers and will continue to say that there will be both the State Budget and the costs of private structures. So by translating it into a simple language, this is another lobbyist law, someone is already creating a structure that is going to rehabilitate those who are out of free will, that they will be taught how to live at the expense of the State Budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u195	Dear colleagues, because there is a objection to the adoption of the bill in the second reading and generally as a law, I ask the committee to speedily develop it and bring it to the next for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I would like to consider a draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine on the responsibility for the illegal treatment of special technical means of receiving information. [[Registration number 3358]] Reporter - Deputy Head of the Security Service of Ukraine Pavlovenko Anatoly Jehrović Correspondent is the head of the committee's subcommittee on law enforcement, Moisik Volodymir Romanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u196	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished national MPs, draft Ukrainian law developed by the Ukrainian Security Service for the implementation of the Ukrainian Presidential Decree of 23 April 2008 on the decision of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine of 21 March 2008 on urgent measures to ensure the information security of Ukraine, with a view to bringing criminal legislation of Ukraine into line with the Constitution of Ukraine by improving the legal regime for the protection of fundamental human rights and freedoms, ensuring the principle of their integrity and integrity, equality before the law of all persons in the exercise of rights and freedoms. The bill provides for criminal liability for the smuggling of special technical means of obtaining information in a non-voice manner by referring them to objects whose illegal movement through the customs border of Ukraine will form a composition of smuggling irrespective of its size in accordance with article 201 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. Article 359 proposes that the social and dangerous activity that forms the composition of the crime be linked not only to the illegal use of special technical means of non-voting information, but rather to the illicit manufacture, acquisition, sale or storage of the specified means of obtaining information. The draft act has been agreed without notice with the State Border Service, the State Customs Service of Ukraine and the State Information Liaison and Protection Service, the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, with comments taken into account, with the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine and the Ministry of Economy of Ukraine. The bill was reviewed and agreed upon by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, as well as by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of law enforcement. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u197	Thank you. Please sit down. Moisik Volodymyr Romanovich, please make the decision of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u198	Vladimir Moisik, “For Ukraine” MP. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished fellow MPs! A law enforcement committee has considered a bill that has been introduced to implement the decision of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine on the responsibility for the illegal treatment of special technical means of receiving information. Today, by means of these means, someone does not own it. And you are witnessing that the official security agencies, the police, the prosecutor's office, whether or not the business, and the gang structures have these tools. So the bill is designed to improve criminal responsibility. The reporter gave a good account of the bill’s contents. He gave the right response. The committee prepared the bill carefully. And despite the fact that the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office and the conclusion of the Attorney-General's Office is negative, the committee recommends that you, honourable colleagues, support this decision on the basis of the first reading so that it can be further elaborated on the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u199	Yes, dear fellows! The committee's proposal is to take it as a basis. Is there a warning? Please sign up. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u200	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! We in Ukraine are actually compromised by all branches and branches of government, including, of course, the Security Service. And what we're adopting today is this law that's going to give anyone a hand, I think it's very important. But I'd like to publicize this position. What's happening in one of the most important organs of the state, the body that's going to provide the Ukrainian state, is something that a private person just can't understand. Whoever is no longer appointed to represent the leader of this special and very important, I repeat, service for the Ukrainian State. I was just amazed to learn that they had recently appointed an outstanding director of the Presidential Secretariat, who was rewarded and I think even assigned the title of General to him for performing special merit. You have heard him perform a special service to combat the Ukrainian government. So I think, or maybe I would really suggest today, let's say, to the President who is responsible for this segment of Ukrainian power, for the power structures, maybe to suggest that we could actually appoint Grandma Parask as our deputy, then we would really know that the Security Service is completely formed. But under this law, we will vote for him. It's a progressive law, and it's really going to reduce a little bit, maybe even the number of these scandals, when the Security Service listens to the Attorney General's deputy when they look for a security deputy across Ukraine, they're sending him in for a search. That's why I'm saying again, we're going to vote for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u201	Oleg Zarubinsky, then Yuri Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u202	Thank you. Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, in general, reports this bill to a representative of that service, who is being accused of unlawfully listening, of interfering in the private lives of people, of manipulating court demands for permission to listen to anyone who has no relation to terrorism or anything else. So this moment is obviously a positive one, and apparently this service is convinced that it is not possible to do so. As far as this bill is concerned. So it reflects the real state of human rights in Ukraine. And the unsatisfying state is, first of all, unsatisfactory when it comes to human rights to privacy, when it comes to human rights to the secret of correspondence, to telephone conversations, to telegraph and other correspondence. And everybody knows that, and everybody knows that it's used in business debates, in raids, that it's used in politics, in games, and so on. And so it's clear that the responsibility for such things, things that conflict with the very essence of human rights, and the essence of human rights, including the right to privacy, the privacy that is intact, is positive. But I have a question for the drafters, maybe it's rhetorical. This punishment must be for sale or storage of these funds for use. Please tell me, if you do not use them, why store them? It's what you listen to in the next room. I don't get it, because they're saving it just to use it. Actually, it's the right bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u203	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u204	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Ladies and gentlemen, I understand your attitude towards the report of the Ukrainian Security Service project, which has been tried to embarrass, so I say, to defile all security officers by having a leader of the Oxlinsky. I'm addressing the President, please remember where he was in 2004? Where was he in 2005? From whom and where did he hide? Think about it. And what are those tricks? Why do we let all the security officers down? I'm talking about decent officers. And I'm definitely against Grandma Parasky's insult. It's categorical! Such comparisons do not go in any way, namely, the acidic and the grandmother of Paraska. It is a person who has earned his life an honest attitude — a person who has earned nothing but contempt and nothing from the people. Therefore, regarding the text of the bill. I would like to support it in the first reading and I want to say to those who have spoken now that they are addressing the issue of illegal listening. No, they don't. These questions are like the excess of authority, the excess of authority, and so on. They are in the service crime class. It's just no one to investigate, and there's no need in the Security Service right now to understand, and everyone is either in pursuit of a star or another star, or the money they can get for selling what information they're getting from listening to your phone calls. But it's now about setting up a monopoly, setting up a monopoly for those bodies that have the right to carry out search-and-seek operations. And thank God. The point is that the formation bank, other institutions, other citizens did not purchase, import, and do not listen. Therefore, this law should be supported in the first reading and further cleaned and added. I thank you for your attention, and the Security Service please do not take offense for acid.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u205	I'll vote after that, please. I want to say it again. Well, I'm asking you to vote on the decision, and then you'll take the decision. Come on. All the time. Well, you can't push like that all the time. Well, you're doing it anyway. Please. There is no short-circuited language procedure. Dear colleagues. Dear colleagues, the committee is proposing to adopt the project as a basis. At the same time, when preparing for the second reading, it needs to be done there, because storage of listening devices means that any person can say that they keep what they want to listen to. The computer, the tape recorder, the recorder, I don't talk about recorders anymore. The proposal for a committee to adopt a draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine on responsibility for unlawful treatment of special technical means of receiving information is therefore put to the vote. [[Registration number 3358]] Please vote. [[13:47:32]] For 239. Decision taken. Please, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u206	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Here we have just voted in the first reading of a law that establishes responsibility for the illegal treatment of special technical means of receiving information. And I have a question, a rhetorical question for all of us: and what law should people who use state resources, state technology be responsible for, and still work, as Oleg Zarubinsky said correctly, in the raid schemes of some kind or political motive? This particular example is Anatoly Jegorovich Pavlenko, who reported this law. Recently, I would like to remind you that the Supreme Council voted by a majority to ask the President to release him. It was this man on the command of the Kislinsky and Baloga who organized the Prime Minister's hearing. I, Anatoly Yegorovich, have you here to tell the MPs how many of us you listen to, how many of us you watch, go into every hole, into bed, under the bed.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u207	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Ten seconds. Finish up, please. Ten seconds. Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u208	I think the answers to these questions are obvious to everyone sitting in this room and outside the hall. Including your efforts, the Security Service has become a threat to the state, to citizens, and to the country. And that's why I think you are.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u209	Thank you. Honorable colleagues, with the Supreme Council and with all government officials, do what they are allowed to do. This is an offence, first of all, of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Supreme Council should be the Supreme Council of Ukraine: it appoints persons, it should ensure proper control and evaluate. Remember how the Supreme Council goes: when it is convenient, it makes one decision, inconveniently, it does not make the second decision. There's gotta be principle everywhere. We are not discussing the activities of the Security Service today. Please make a draft decision – we will then listen to the report of the respective leaders. Now we're looking at a draft law. A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the imposition of penalties for traffic security offences is being announced for consideration. Registration number 3573. The rapporteur is Deputy Minister of the Interior, Savchenko Alexander Ilchi. Sip talker is the head of the committee's subcommittee on law enforcement activities, Gretzak Vasil Mikolaiovich. We continue the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for up to 14 hours for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u210	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished national deputies, is brought to your attention by the Ministry of Internal Affairs and approved by the Government of Ukraine's draft law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the imposition of fines for road safety offences. The draft law is designed to meet the requirements of the Ukrainian law on regulation of road safety relations. This includes the experience of other countries, such as Germany, Italy, Turkey, Poland, and others. The bill provides for amendments to the road traffic law in Ukraine and to the police in the part of the introduction of penalty points for offences in the area of road safety, including the establishment of appropriate procedures for their registration. In particular, the draft law provides that the number of fines is determined by the nature of the offence. Balls are listed and entered into an automated information system. If a driver of a vehicle has paid a fine within fifteen days of the acquisition of the legal force, the sum of the tickets for the offence is reduced by two points. When, within a year from the date of the vehicle’s commission, he has 30 or more penalty points, he is obliged to pass a theoretical test on his knowledge of traffic rules within 30 days. If, on the day of the end of the month, after committing a road safety offence, the amount of fines charged to the driver of the vehicle is less than 30 punitive points for the infringement is considered to be expunged. The project also foresees that the law takes effect on January 1, 2010. The implementation of the act does not require additional costs from the state budget. However, the proposed changes do not raise monetary or punitive responsibility but are preventive, since the bill provides for systematic violations of the rules of travel. Since the beginning of this year, the number of road traffic accidents with the victims has decreased by almost 32 percent. The dead are 41 percent injured by 32 percent and, in fact, by saved lives.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u211	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u212	Thank you. Hopefully, through an adopted bill, we will continue this positive dynamic next year. Please note that the bill has been approved by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legislative Security. We hope for your support. And thank you in advance. Report completed.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u213	Thank you, sit down, please. From the Committee Vasil Mikolaiovich Gritzak.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u214	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Your opinion is proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine a bill amending certain Ukrainian laws on the imposition of fines for road safety offences. The bill has been drafted to implement the requirements of the Final Provisions of the Ukrainian Law of 24 September 2008 No. 586 – to amend certain Ukrainian legislation on improving the regulation of road safety relations. The bill is proposed to amend the Ukrainian Road Traffic Act, the Police Act, as part of the introduction of penalty points for road safety offences, and to establish an appropriate order for counting them. Thus, the project provides that the penalty points will be awarded to the U.S.’s DAI Ministry of Justice, which is responsible for the accounting of road safety offences on the basis of the decision to impose administrative charges. If a driver receives 30 or more penalty points during the year, he is obliged to pass a theoretical examination of the knowledge of the Road Traffic Rules. If the amount of fines charged to the driver during the year is less than 30 points, these points are considered to be off after the end of the year. With a view to encouraging the offender to pay a fine in time for violating traffic rules, it is proposed that the number of tickets awarded be reduced by two points if the offender pays a fine within 15 days. The Committee believes that the adoption of this bill will have a positive impact on the prevention of traffic safety offences and will increase the liability of drivers of transport for systematic violations of the Road Traffic Regulations. Therefore, he recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt a bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u215	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u216	The first reading is based on further consideration of the comments and suggestions made by legal entities. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u217	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues! Is there a need to discuss the project? Please sign in. Please give me the names of the national deputies who signed up for the board. Pavlovski National Deputy, Timoshenko Yulia Block. Then Landik.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u218	Please pass the word to the People's Deputy Pudov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u219	It's a name again.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u220	Pudou. People's Deputy Pudov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u221	Please, the People's Deputy of Pudov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u222	Pudov National Deputy, Yulia Timoshenko Unit. I invite all my colleagues here to attend this conversation. First of all, we have given a very powerful weapon to the Ministry of Internal Affairs by adopting the Road Traffic Act. And you know how this system is now using this law. All the powers of the President to reform a structure called GAI have failed. We've come to the point where we've introduced dragon measures in the form of fines, and you'll see what's happening on the road. I want to tell you, a total violation of the rights of those who are road users. You'll see what you're doing by counting fines, hiding in bushes with these visors, and so on and so forth. Therefore, I invite my colleagues not to give up any new clubs in a very corrupt structure. All of these must be given methods only if we reform them perfectly and put them in order. Moreover, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that they have recently initiated a decree of the Cabinet of Ministers that changes the plans for the training and retraining of drivers of vehicles. You'll see what's going on there, they're pulling a blanket against all the existing world principles of driver training. We have to stop this process before it's too late. I will therefore vote against it categorically and invite my colleagues to do so. Moreover, I propose to initiate consideration of these issues on a standing committee and to look at the guidelines. individual managers of positions. Because for the time being, we are only contributing to the development of the corruption of this structure.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u223	Vladimir Landik, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u224	Thank you. Landik, Party of Regions. You know, I gave the "for" button and at first the Deputy Minister could hear something positive for motorists. When we look more closely, we see that, apart from the points, the ones that offer us, but if the points offer, cancel the fines. No, the fines remain, there is a further punishment for our motorists, i.e. all of us. But let me tell you when the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and especially the GAI, will begin to think for a little while for those who contain them. Well, they only think about how they keep them personally by taking money out of their pocket in their own pocket, but not in their own budget. Because the man, afraid of that ball, will again pay the extra bribe. They're all the same tricks that they've done to us twice or three times a year, so they're changing our rights, our certificates, and they've changed our numbers 15 times a year, and we've got to pay everything for the points, including! Therefore, during the police crisis, we need to think about what it is to carry out immorally! You have to make proposals that prohibit the fine of a man, but you have to think about how to fine a local authority, the higher authority for not making a road, not making a mark, not lighting up the streets where people die, and the GAI, because of the bushes, demand money in their own pocket! Be for the people as you should be for the militia, not for the people. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u225	Thank you! National MP Gordienko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u226	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. Today, the police report on the great progress made in keeping the roads in order. I'd like to say that despite all the positive moments that we have here, we've faced a lot of problems and actually robbing ordinary people, mass thefts on the road. There's got to be a way to fight this. I'd like to address today both the members of the Conciliation Council and Vladimir Mikhailovich, that we need to consider the bill of Simonek and Kravchenk, which is proposed to return with the status quo that was before. Next. What is offered today is a fine. I'd like to go to the people and the drafters of the bill, and I'd like to go to the government that we're proposing. Because the Constitution of Ukraine provides that only one claim can be imposed for a person’s having committed an offence, and that in fact the person already has a fine or some other, and the penalty points are also added. And I can imagine you, Ukrainian citizens and my colleagues, imagine how on the road a simple driver would trade extra with a DAI worker for how many points, there, for the ball, as much as the rest. You understand what happens when these bales and you all get rid of the control rights and how you reissue them in the DAI organs. It's terrible to support that.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u227	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u228	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Ladies and gentlemen, many years ago, I proposed a Code of Road Traffic Law. It's not good for anyone today. Why? Because then a specific militiaman is tied to the road and is responsible, including for the condition of the roads. And when a pit and a driver pass by it, it does not run immediately to stop and fine it, but it runs to call: “Come, quickly, you must set up a pit. ” We don't have that responsibility. It's not exactly true. You know, Your Honor, I'd just like to ask you who thought instead of a driver's license you'd have a payment card today. You have to process all the driver's licenses in the country, pay people money, you don't have to do anything in crisis. Mr. Deputy Minister, Comrade Silent, I beg you not to distract him, let him hear, but he has not read the draft law, let him hear. So to think, I'm reading to you what's written, article 132 with a prim badge. It is written this way: that the information about the driver's driving tickets is placed on the system and is identified on the card by the driver of the vehicle, on which the corresponding vehicle identification data is made: magnetic band, microscheme, etc. and which can be used simultaneously as a payment card to pay the fines. Because our citizens don't know what laws are being discussed, and then there will be some interpretation. This means demanding funds for new driver’s license cards. What are we doing, people? We're doing double punishment. Instead of stopping everyone on the road today who carries the “U” letter. You can't drive, don't touch the "U" letter, don't touch the shoe. I've already seen two "U"s and two shoes today. This can be seen even on our roads. This bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u229	Dear colleagues, calm down. I understand that the problem is very hot, it affects everyone. Oleg Zarubinski. Then one minute will be in Ariev.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u230	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. I'm speaking from the faction. Dear colleagues, the bill is imperfect. This is evident even without serious analysis. If you read what I've done, there's a lot of strange things going on here. Like what? The person is the owner of the vehicle. Someone's got a hired employee on a contract, everything's legal. Who owns the ball? The owner of the facility. The person is the owner of the vehicle. A thousand miles away, he drives the car and the person he is assigned to do so. Who owns the ball? The owner of the vehicle. It seems to me that the authors need to first study glossarys and terminology. And realize that owners and drivers are different categories. This is the first moment. The other one. Consider the following. Now it's suggested that 5 to 15 points be counted for speeding. It's okay. If it wasn't for the next rule, after 30 points, you'd have to do a theoretical examination of the rules of traffic. Please tell me that a person who exceeds speed doesn't know that it can't be exceeded? Does he not understand where 80 or 100 are written? Why is this done? To collect money, to collect money, to collect all the time. We need to stop the practice when we have government institutions, DAI and others are viewed as a tool for making money. This is wrong by its very nature. If that is the case, if that remains, such bills will continue. I want to say again that it is completely raw. I didn't say ten percent of the comments I found here, the observation just logical, not professional. It's a failed bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u231	National Deputy Ariev, faction "Our Ukrainian People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u232	Dear colleagues, I wanted to ask you first. Is everyone in this room, or do the drivers who serve the national MPs follow the traffic rules? I think we can put our hands on our hearts and say no. And the best fight against what's sitting in the bushes with the visor is for everyone, including, starting with us and ending the people we care about, not violating traffic rules. And with regard to this bill, I just want to remind you that we passed a bill to increase the fines of our time, and in the end, we committed ourselves to developing a system of balling. It's not enough, it's a European norm. In particular, in Germany, there are a numbering system in Finland. And today we are actually denying the European standards for monitoring the implementation of road traffic rules. Let us, if this project is imperfect, vote in the first reading today, and in the second reading, amend the corresponding ones, but what we are obliged to do today. Since we can see for ourselves, there have recently been several, in one day.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u233	Finish up, please. Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u234	In one day, they were on Ukraine’s roads, literally in the past week, three accidents that killed 10 people, serious accidents. So, I think we should.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m0.u235	Dear colleagues, please calm down. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you, in considering this issue, like everyone else, let's do it. Oleg Aleksandrovich, distinguished colleagues, let's stick to state positions. I've said this before, and I want to say that before the election, we're going to cancel the traffic rules altogether, because there's a crazy desire for people to like it. And the second. This emotional discussion shows that we do not want to follow the rules very much. We appeal to the fact that people are bad, it really is. But let's say, at the same time, that everyone, starting with the deputy of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, must first follow the rules of road traffic. And let's demand that the rules are enforced so that we don't get drunk for driving. I mean, people, and then they say that the police are cruel to them. So I want to say again, let's be careful about implementing the traffic rules and, above all, let's show an example. All of it. So I'm voting on the committee's proposal to adopt a bill to amend some of Ukraine's laws. [[on the establishment of penalties for road safety offences]] [[Registration number 3573]] Please vote. [[14:10:14]] For-19 The decision is not taken. I am voting on the second proposal to re-read the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian laws on the imposition of fines for road safety offences. [[May I have your attention, please?]] 3573. Please vote. [[14:10:51]] For-41 The proposal is not supported, the bill is rejected. Dear colleagues, we need to announce a recess. Well, you could look into it, but I think so. Dear colleagues, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Break until 4:00. At 16 o'clock, we'll continue our work. At 3: 30 p.m., a meeting of the Conciliation Council
