ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:00:49]] Cards were registered in the 424 national deputies in the session hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues! You and I have postponed the consideration of draft Law 3429. No, no, we postponed it because there was no Royal. On amending certain legislative acts to minimize the negative effects of the financial crisis on economic operators. That's what we were voting on. We announced a “severe thank you” for not being at the meeting.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u2	Dear colleagues, respectable Vladimir Mihajlovich! Today we held a large meeting with entrepreneurs and reported on the work of the Supreme Council on what laws we have adopted in support of entrepreneurship. And I would like to inform the people's deputies that it is now proposed to consider the 3,429 bill, which was adopted on first reading on 13 January and prepared by the Committee, by representatives of all the MPs. A separate working group had been set up, which had considered all the necessary priority anti-crisis measures that we could take today, and entrepreneurs really felt that the deputies were working and were thinking about how to reduce and regulate today, reduce the pressure on business, reduce the number of checks, introduce a moratorium on checks and thus, indeed, facilitate the start of business and simplify the procedure for issuing permits. The Committee proposes that the Charter Fund reduce from 100 minimum wages to one minimum wage. Enter the principle of tacit consent and introduce a procedure where licences are issued within 10 days and if the enterprise has not received a timely response, this is considered to be an automatic solution. We are also reducing the number of licences for individual business activities - certification. We believe that today should not complicate the lives of entrepreneurs, to do everything possible to create a decent business climate in our country. The bill enshrines the practice of long-term leases of public and utility property. It prohibits the review of rent during the crisis. And we believe that all the provisions of the bill are now aimed at protecting the interests of business actors. In addition, the Fire Safety Act expressly excludes the corrupt rule that the provision of State fire protection, the construction of its facilities and facilities was made through the donation of legal persons and citizens. Just think about it when every fire inspector collected donations from all businesses throughout the country. Therefore, the adoption of the bill today will allow us to reduce the impact of crises on small businesses, maintain and create new jobs, and receive the planned revenue steadily. The Industrial Regulatory Policy and Enterprise Committee proposes to adopt the bill as a whole as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u3	Dear colleagues, we'll follow through. I'm going to stop at those amendments that are rejected. If anyone insists on amendments to the voting that are included, then we will also vote. Amendment No. 4 of the people's deputy Krutz. Are you insisting on this amendment? No, it's not. 5th Amendment. Yuri Carmazin, insist? No, it's not. Xenia Lapina is the 6th amendment. Are you insisting? No, it's not. Yuri Carmazin, 7th. Don't insist. A stick. 8th Amendment. Is he insisting? No, it's not. The stick, the 12th amendment, doesn't insist. 13th? Don't insist. Okay, 14th? Don't insist. Okay, 15th, 16th? Don't insist. The baton, 17th? Don't insist. 18th? Nor does he insist. What's up, 20? Don't insist. Stick, 21st, 22nd? Don't insist. Tereshuk, 23rd, insists? No, it's not. Calchenko, 28. No, it's not. Shershun, Hare, Seminoga, 29th? No, it's not. Yatzenko, Kostenko, Pisarczuk, Shershun, 33rd, 36th? No, I can't see. 37, I can't see. 42nd, Carmazin? Don't insist. Xenia Lapina, 46th? No, it's not. Carmazine, 52nd? No, it's not. Vlasenko, 75th? No, it's not. 94th. You insisted on 94, didn't you?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u4	Dear colleagues! There are 11 national deputies who have proposed to remove paragraph 9 from the Ukrainian Tourism Act. What are you talking about? So there's a proposal here in different formulas to eliminate the licensing and standardization of tourism activities. In particular, so that, for example, tour operators can work without any licensing and a host of other things, such as liberal, democratic. The position of the profile committee, my position as a person who knows a little bit about tourism, is that we're not ready for this kind of liberalisation. Because while we're on fire in the Carpathians, because people build without fire conditions, without anything, they get these permits, and then we have tourists suffering. So my proposal is to put nine people's deputies out of five factions of Parliament to vote and delete paragraph 9 of the Tourism Act and not touch this area until we, let's work in this regime, at least, what we have and then liberalize this tourism activity. So I'm asking for an amendment, and this is the same thing as 94, 95, 96, 97, 98, 99, 100, 101, 102, 103, 104 is the same amendment. Paragraph 9 deletes by deleting paragraph 9 of the Tourism Act, i.e. all the amendments I have called to support by voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u5	Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u6	Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u7	My dear colleagues, I am voting on the amendment that my colleague Tomenko has just made, is a 94-104 amendment, which relates to the fact that in the Ukrainian Tourism Act, this paragraph should be deleted. Please vote. [[16:08:41]] For 176 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, all the other adjustments. Are they insisting on them? Xenia Leapina, don't you think? Well, then, I'll just go ahead and ask about the amendments. Greenewic Sergei, 105, insists? No, it's not. 107th? No, it's not. 110th? No, it's not. 111th? No, it's not. The 114th? No, it's not. Xenia Lapina, now, I see. Vlasenko, 118th? No, it's not. Xenia Lapina, 119th Amendment, this is page 31. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u8	Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that my amendment to the 119th is an anti-crisis. We've had this high-cost license problem for four years, and I'm stressing that we're dealing in alcohol, tobacco. This high cost has narrowed the participation of small businesses in this area. And it actually led us to lose a lot of small stores. I propose to unify the cost of this license, and I propose to reduce it. This in no way reduces the cost of alcoholic beverages themselves, because they are regulated by the high excise duties that we have accepted with you, and the language only goes to facilitate commercial activity. I want to point out that this is a very important question today. The volume of trade is shrinking, incomes are shrinking accordingly, and the number of trading entities is shrinking. And this is about any trade. And if.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u9	Give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u10	If a vegetable shop is maintained in the water and provides vegetables for people, the inhabitants of the microregion, on account of the fact that they are also selling alcohol, let them abstain. Let's give them that opportunity. Please support the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u11	Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u12	This amendment is not applicable. concerns legislation on the regulation and production and treatment of alcoholic beverages and tobacco products. Since this is more of a regulatory area of another committee, our committee has decided not to take this amendment into account in the bill, but to consider it directly in the relevant committee and then to take a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u13	Dear colleagues, the vote is amended 119, the author is the national deputy of Ukraine, Xenius Leapina. [[16:11:38]] For-30 Correction not supported. Let's move on. 122nd, Yatzenka. No, it's not. Baranov, 124th. No, it's not. Xenia Lapina, 125th. microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u14	I would like to point out that this amendment relates to the painful question of renting relationships. And it's about letting, at the request of the tenant, the authorities or the local government, or the government authorities who rent this facility, make an overestimation. I want to point out that there was a rent on the basis of a very high rating of these premises, when there was an economic growth, there was a boom, there was a big competition wanting to rent one or the other. Today, the situation is reversed. You can see, even in Kiev, half the rooms with the sign “appear to rent”. I'm not talking about district centers, it just seems like a rental. In fact, there is no reason for the local authorities and the state to overestimate the rent, and overestimation leads to a reduction in the rent. I'm asking you to allow this opportunity.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u15	Please provide the committee with an opinion on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u16	The amendment could have a significant impact today on the arrangements for the conclusion of the State-owned lease. Today, the law does not prohibit the lessor from negotiating with or requiring the lessor to assess leased property. With regard to the simplification of the lease procedure and the extension of the lease for five years, it is in this bill that we have the rights of entrepreneurs as other amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u17	Dear colleagues, there is an amendment to the 125th Amendment of Kseniya Lápina. [[16:13:50]] For-24 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, there are other amendments. The authors do not insist. Correction of 152nd, 153rd. Royal and Leapina, do you insist on her? Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u18	Dear colleagues, this is actually an amendment, which is actually very important today, is an amendment to the moratorium on checks. I would like to report that today, the Prime Minister, at an open meeting of the government, has already announced that they are willing to make their efforts for a moratorium, and our efforts with you can be reflected in the law. And this moratorium that awaits every small enterprise today. I want to point out that we've written this moratorium so that it can't in any way lead to abuse. It is aimed at small business subjects; it is directed only to areas where there is no high risk. That's exactly what we're talking about. And you know, according to the law on verification, all authorities have identified high-risk activities. So we're not in any way putting citizens at risk. I think the support for this amendment is going to be a huge plus and it will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u19	Please, the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u20	I would like to say that, today, indeed, the Prime Minister has supported such an amendment and the Cabinet of Ministers decreed a moratorium on verification. And my view is that we would strengthen this position and would indeed protect entrepreneurs today from the impunity of the monitoring bodies on the ground, when there is no time limit in the constant regime and checks are being carried out. Therefore, until 2011, of course today would be an anti-crisis measure to support our business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u21	Dear colleagues, I'm voting on amendment 153, which basically resounds with amendment 152, which was written by Natalia Royal and Xenia Lapina. Please vote. [[16:16:27]] For-153 Correction not accepted. Dear colleagues, all the amendments have been voted on. Natalia Juryovna, inspire us to vote, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u22	Dear colleagues, distinguished members of the people! I'm talking to you all: we're all going back to the county. We have millions of small entrepreneurs who will come here and ask what we've done? Indeed, the Committee has attracted completely representatives of all political forces. We see that the amendments are taken into account by all political forces and all proposals. Today, there is a reduction in licensing, a reduction in certification, and the principle of non-disclosure. We've talked about this for ten years, we've been telling entrepreneurs that you can send documents and automatically get permission to start a business and run a business. We have finally come to reduce the statutory fund and allow today to remove the barriers to entry and business, to allow the creation of new jobs, especially during the crisis. This is one of the first serious anti-crisis laws to really support our small and medium-sized business today. Members of the Committee shall address all members of the People's Parliament. Please vote in favour of this bill. Let's take him in, and let him take action. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u23	Thank you. Adam Martinyuk. Then Mikhailo Chechetov. And then we'll be from the Cabinet of Ministers. Then Mikhailo Kosov and then the Cabinet of Ministers. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u24	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. If this bill only had what the chairman of the committee said, it would be worth supporting not only one hand but two. But unfortunately, this bill is designed to lift licenses for topographic maps and geodetics. I mean, whatever anyone wants, they draw. And that's the defense of the state. Regrettably, this, as already discussed by a colleague of Tomenko, suggests that tourism licenses be withdrawn. Send whoever you want and how you want the tourist and he's not responsible for it, he's back alive, healthy, or not back. Unfortunately, the term “medical license ” is being revoked. He's been licensed for drugs, and they're going to be forever. It may be necessary to set a time limit and so forth. So if only it was made up of what Natalia Yuriovna was saying, yes. But unfortunately, there's more dragons.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u25	Mikhailo Chechetov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u26	Dear colleagues, I think that the assessment by the Government of assistance and the creation of an enabling environment for small businesses has been given to thousands of people who have surrounded the Ukrainian House today and have disgraced the Government because the Government has put a small business on its knees and put a small business on the blades. Let's also remember the transport tax that we are. Returns the coalition and the government and the fees for the market fee and so on. But I want to say that today, please, there's a majority vote. If you are able to vote, vote, and if not, leave. Don't torture the country, go away! Leave the majority together, the government, Timoshenko, Yushchenko – go away! Give people the opportunity to choose, indeed, the national authority to think about the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u27	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I just want to draw your attention to one fact that the authors of this law are Natalia Královska and Mikhailo Chechetov, don't torture us with those laws that you don't want to vote for. Mikhail Kosov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u28	Mikhailo Kosov, BUT faction. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues, MPs! I'm asking you to calm down. I would like to ask you to return to the amendment that we have so actively advocated and for which we have not voted. This is true of what Adam Ivanovich had already said. If you remove the licensing completely from all tourist services, including those that provide accommodation to tourists, you can imagine what situation we can create before the arrival of a huge number of tourists to Euro-2012. You can't film this because the tourist, he'll come from abroad, but he doesn't know that we haven't licensed those cities where he can stop. And he could get into some kind of hole.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u29	Please, the position of the government and the offer. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u30	The proposal of the Ministry of Finance is to remove the issue of the timeliness of the license from this bill because it is a fiscal coming. We have a lot of licenses and a lot of income from license payments. And when the license is fixed, these revenues will be lost. In addition, the principle of silent consent is removed because the entire licensing system is actually being destroyed, because the confirmation of the principle of silent consent in this case will be sufficient to indicate that the letter was sent, with the actual mechanisms for controlling the absence of a reasoned refusal or the existence of a reasoned refusal not foreseen. And so we're actually ruining the licensing system at all. If there is any possible application of the principle of silent consent, there should be a cancellation of licensing as such.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u31	Dear colleagues, now the committee for comments, which also made proposals.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u32	Dear colleagues, with regard to the position of the Ministry of Finance, I would like to ask them once again not to combine their position with that of the Cabinet of Ministers and to request that I read the latest version of the bill. Because the last draft of the bill that we are considering today has been removed from the scope of the licences. It clearly states: it is not limited if the Cabinet of Ministers adopts restrictions on certain economic activities, then there is a restriction. And here we fully agree with Adam Ivanovich and his remarks, so this amendment was removed from the text of the bill. With regard to topical geodetics, topographical geodetics, cartographic work, it is still necessary to obtain permission from the Ukrainian Security Service. Therefore, as such, the existence or absence of a licence does not matter in this case, because, in order not to cause harm to the State and the people, the authorization of the Ukrainian Security Service is still mandatory. And getting a license is another bribe, and that's not all, so we agreed and removed it from the bill. As far as tourism is concerned, we must understand that there is a tour operator and there is tourism. The operation of the tour operators is licensed and the operation of the tourans is not licensed under the proposal of the bill. Because the Tourism Act offers a comprehensive system of guarantees for and protection of tourists, but if we have reasons and obstacles to the adoption of the bill, there is only the licensing of tourism. Dear colleagues, let's remove this rule from this rule of law, so that today there is no way to mock business and get an additional 8 types of licenses, but not to pass the law because of one amendment we understand that it will be the top of political cynicism today. Thank you so much for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u33	Dear colleagues! We discussed the bill, we discussed the amendments. The committee's proposal is on the vote, please. On the adoption, in second reading and generally as a bill, of a bill amending certain legislative acts to minimize the negative effects of the financial crisis on economic operators. Registration number 3429. Please vote. [[16:25:28]] For 197 The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u34	To the others again.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u35	To the others again? I'll bet the vote on the second sentence. On the second reading of the Law. [[Registration number 3429]] [[16:25:56]] For 213 The decision is not taken, the law is rejected. For reasons, please, Xenia Leapina.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u36	Kseniya Liapina group “For Ukraine”. Dear colleagues! From now on, the hall has demonstrated a mere absolute political absurdity. We've all been told here, we need to fight the crisis. It is impossible to cope with a crisis without doing anything for the economy. We have to make an anti-crisis move. And this Law may be the only one that contains real anti - crisis measures, and there have been many benefits. One amendment can always be removed, but we have now lost the chance to actually take real anti-crisis measures in the near future. And then you're going to ask why GDP is shrinking. But these are your hands, your esteemed colleagues, who didn't vote, they're going to cut GDP right now. It's a totally wrong practice! This is a practice called “the worse – the better”. Is this the practice of the Ukrainian Supreme Council?Oh, my God! It's a disgraceful practice!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u37	Dear colleagues! Who called it? Please, a line. Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u38	Respectable colleagues, indeed. But what does the Government and the majority think about today when it was necessary to overcome the veto of the President of the Chemical Industry Support Act? This is the industry that brings currency to the State. So that we don't drive around the world like goats for carrots and ask for credit, but we can make money. That's how they cut the law. What does the government think? Does the government have brains or not? That's the main question. We have to look from here, that's all. As for this bill, I repeat. That was another criterion. Is there a majority in the room or not? Most don't. Go away, dear. Go away, don't torture the side. Give people the opportunity to choose the normal people's power to think about the country, about small business, about entrepreneurship, about getting out of the crisis. There's no alternative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u39	Dear colleagues, please, that was a line. All of it. Question completed. I'm just asking you and please, let's stop the political disputes. Today a bill with political motives is not being voted on and it comes to absurdity at all. The authors of draft laws do not vote for their laws. That's absurd. And then they blame someone. They introduce the law and say: “You accept, I stand outside.” Please, let's mobilize and work. Well, you can't if you didn't take the second reading to the third reading. You know, it doesn't make any sense. The law is rejected. Well, you can do that. I mean, there's no other procedural or regulatory way out. Dear colleagues, now, one minute. We need to look at the draft of the Physical Culture and Sports Act, a new edition. At the same time, the committee and committee head Paul Kostenko are asked to move this law to 22nd in connection with some differences in the draft law. Well, if the committee's offering it, will we put it off tomorrow? A draft law on the protection of property rights of citizens at the time of Ukraine's economic exit from the financial crisis is announced for consideration. [[second reading]] The rapporteur is Head of the Committee on Finance and Banking of Azarov Mikola Janović. Dear colleagues, the point is, about this bill. I'll inform you that it was introduced at the end of December 19, 2008. He was on the committee on questions, on the committee headed by Sergey Terhochin. After that decision, the Conciliation Council. And by decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, this document was submitted to the Committee on Banking and Banking. At the same time, the committee has not yet considered the bill. Then we have every reason to consider it. But the materials must be given. I want to say again, dear colleagues! If the committee does not consider it, after we have accepted it in the first reading and have passed the deadline, we should consider it and determine the final decision in the original version. If it's going, it's just a blockage of consideration of this bill, sorry, you can't make a hostage of something that doesn't have a table. I'm asking the Secretariat, give it to me. But I don't have a chart. Give me the table and we'll go back to reviewing this law. No, that's not it. 3459-1. Synchronising folder failed: %s: %s I'm not a pretzel. Dear colleagues, 3585 we considered before the morning meeting. That's why I'm asking the Secretariat. I'm asking the Secretariat to give me that first-reading version. We'll put him to the vote. Because it's about protecting people during a financial crisis. And he's not in nature. We considered it in the first reading and made the decision. We had to prepare for the second reading. For many months now, the committee has not considered the matter. You don't have to carry it. The thing is, we're transferring it from week to week, and the committee's not consciously considering this bill. Honorary colleagues regarding the draft Act on State regulation in the field of gaming business, outside of which we passed the Law on the Prohibition of the Gambling Business, the committee proposes to postpone consideration of the current law, or 3535. I, my dear colleagues, ask you to calm down. The point is that these documents are going to be filed, we're going to go back to 3459. I don't have a document yet. Oleg Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u40	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, thank you. Dear colleagues, honourable voters, the bill referred to by the Head of the Supreme Council is called the "Draft Law on the Protection of Citizens' Property Rights during Ukraine's economic exit from the state of the world financial crisis". The commission to prepare him for his second reading was given by the Supreme Council on December 23, 2008. For five months the opposition committee failed to prepare the law for its second reading. As a result, citizens’ rights are suffered and remain unprotected. And that's why I'm addressing you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to put you in charge, and so that the Supreme Council can make a decision -- to commit the committee to bring this law to Parliament immediately, because millions of people are not guilty of failing to meet the political stars and want to block the consideration of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u41	I must, my fellow Members, make it clear, because we already appeal to the people that the reason why I do not consider this law is that the committee that leads Sergey Teryohin, and then Mikola Azarov, these two committees blocked the Supreme Council of Ukraine for 5 months, so I can put one more to the vote so that we can make one more decision that we have already made, commit, submit to the plenary next week in the first plenary. Tuesday's meeting, which is what we're going to have. I'm going to put this proposal on the vote, see how they react. Because we have to have work in the session room, not on Friday at 21:00, 30 minutes to begin. I'm putting this motion to a vote. Instruct the Committee on Banking for the next plenary week on Tuesday to submit a law to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. draft law, registration number 3459-1 on the protection of citizens' property rights during the period of economic withdrawal of Ukraine from the financial crisis. Please vote. [[16:36:13]] For 219 I remind you once again, dear colleagues. The factions, please. Region Party 5, Timoshenko Yulia Block - 148, Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense – 20, Communists – 26, Litvina Block – 20. I'll tell you what. One minute, I'll read you this law, your honors. I'll read this law. I just got it. The law is designed to ensure the constitutional rights of citizens to their own homes and to provide them with social protection. One minute! Article 1. During the period of the economic exit from the financial crisis, a moratorium is imposed on the acquisition by the holder or mortgage holder of the right to make mortgages or mortgages if the subject of a mortgage or mortgage is a residential property in which citizens are permanently residing.” Article two: “The end of Ukraine’s economic exit from the financial crisis is determined by the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to submit the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine.” Article three: “This law takes effect from the day of publication”. That's what this is about. [[B in m in s a l in]] Don't all shout! Don't all shout! So, your honors, if there was no desire, please pay attention! – there was no desire to give another commission to a committee of profile due to political interests, so that for the next plenary week of Tuesday we would consider this law, there was one thing: to consider and now to decide on the decision to be taken. That's why. I say this to Terhochin, and to Azar: there is no need to divide it into two. Therefore, in view of the failure to carry out the mandate of the former Supreme Council of Ukraine, we have every reason to vote on acceptance in the second reading and in general as a law. I'm voting on this proposal. You don't have to. You have to work on the committees. I am voting for a second reading proposal and, in general, as a bill of the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of Citizens' Property Rights at the time of Ukraine's economic exit from the financial crisis. Registration number 3459-1. Please vote. [[16:39:07]] For 237 The law is passed. The factions, please. Region Party – 1, Block Timoshenko – 154, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” – 35, Communists – 27, “Block of Lithuania” – 20. Now calm down, dear fellows, calm down! Now draft of the Act on State regulation in the field of gaming business, registration number 3535. Along with it. One minute! [[B in m in s a l in]] At the same time, the committee wrote a letter of this content, reading: “According to the schedule of meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on May 21st, a second reading of the draft Act on State regulation in the field of gaming is scheduled for consideration by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The Committee reports that the draft bill has now been prepared for second reading, but in view of the adoption by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 15 May 2009 of the Ukrainian Act on the Prohibition of Game Business in Ukraine, as well as with a view to developing proposals for a committee on the regulation of gaming business in Ukraine, please postpone the review of the draft Ukrainian Act on State regulation of gaming activities. With respect, the head of the Royal Committee” Please, Valery Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u42	Dear colleagues, you know, the game business epoch is kind of like a detective to us. Today, there is a law on the President's signature that we have approved here by the constitutional majority on the ban on the gaming business in Ukraine. I am convinced that the President will not play the game of his gambling with the people of Ukraine and will sign this law. Today, I just don't understand why we have any legislation on this, if we have a clear law that we have adopted that we have a law developed by the Cabinet of Ministers after the creation of a special zone, where all the "one-handed bandits" will go. If we leave a slot for the owners of slot machines today to survive somewhere, let's be honest and honest. If not, all the laws that are now in the agenda should not be returned to the committee, but we must now fail and tell people honestly that we have banned the game business and we start off with a clean letter of our entire game business story, we send them to a special area.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u43	Gregory Smythech, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u44	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, well, you remember, really, that we have adopted a law that prohibits gambling. What is the point of considering this law today? That's the first question. The second question. In the final positions of this law, which we have passed, by a constitutional majority of 340 votes, we have entrusted the Cabinet of Ministers with identifying the areas where this game business can be located. In view of the fact that the decision of the Supreme Council by law to do so makes no sense, these bills, which they find today, are four. So I have an offer, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to put this question to a vote on the rejection of these laws, as they are today in the Supreme Council. And put that dot there. Please set aside the rejection of this law, and we will not be playing handovers then. Because you remember that last December the Supreme Council adopted December 26, and it commissioned 35. 35, which we considered on January 14th. Until now, they had not been considered because they had come together.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u45	Dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts. Perhaps these are the two proposals that Valérie Pisarenko and Gregory Smytheuch would be able to put together and put to the vote in this way. Since we've adopted, one minute, since we've adopted, since you and I have adopted the Act on the Prohibition of the Gambling Business in Ukraine, and we also have bills on the move of the gaming business outside of the population, then we can, for the sake of this law, which is prepared for the second reading, not to discuss it in an article, but to put it to a vote on the approval of this draft law. The Supreme Council does not support him. Then he is regarded as being rejected, and then we clear the legislative field in this queen. Adam Martinyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u46	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I am totally in solidarity, and the faction will act exactly as the Head of the Supreme Council said. But with the opportunity, I just want to say one thing. There are now frequent accusations by some of our colleagues that the Communists did not vote in favour of banning the gaming business. We voted in favour of the ban. Sadly, however, the law, which was passed in general as a law, prohibited gambling and prohibited in the first article and in the third article prohibited. Because it says, the Cabinet of Ministers for three months to say where this game business is going to be. That's why we didn't vote to let our voters know. We are firm opponents of the gaming business. And what's relevant to the bills that are today is, really, let's put them to a vote and each faction will consciously realize that the law on the gaming business has already been passed, that is, it doesn't have to be supported and they will clearly fall out of the order of the day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u47	Dear colleagues! That's why we move like this. Natalia Kovalevska, please. Queen, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u48	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I would like to recall that we have 17 years in Ukraine without a game business. Finally, you and I passed a bill last week and it's on the President's signature. Let us not test again whether it will be signed or not. It's okay if we wait for the President's decision and take a stand. If the Act on the Prohibition of the Game Business is passed, then everything is well and we will continue to act in accordance with the adopted law. If it's not adopted, I can tell you the scenario that is planned. We are now failing all the bills, and there is no law in the Supreme Council again. Again, the game business will not be resolved at all. The Committee therefore requests that consideration of these bills be postponed, that the President's decision be awaited and that further decisions be taken by the Supreme Council. In 17 years we have not been accepted, and now we are starting again some completely misunderstood frauds alongside this bill and the gaming business.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u49	Dear colleagues! Oksana Bilozer, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u50	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! There's schizophrenicity in the room, it's not even funny anymore. We have a second reading of a bill introduced by the government today, is it another government today? He did, he did, we can consider this law today, we can make oral corrections, we need the zones and what you want. Don't take time consciously, there are people on the street, and there's nothing to blame for not having us translate into the President. This is our underwork with you. I propose that this bill be considered now. We can make those changes from the voice we need and there's nothing to play in. In front of the whole of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u51	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? So let's do this, because there's a conflict here, a proposal for a committee to move forward, I'm going to put this first proposal to the vote. If this proposal is supported by 226 votes, the question is put on hold, if not, I will put to the vote a second proposal for approval in the entire draft Act on State regulation in the field of gaming. If the Supreme Council approves, it means the decision is taken, it does not approve, then we'll put it into the agenda or we'll consider the inclusion in the agenda of the daily bills that came from the government on this issue, as well as from the people's deputies, and we'll move on. But the only thing I would ask is, let's just calm down really and keep up with the normal rhythm of work. Is there no objection? That is why I am voting on the proposal for a committee to postpone the consideration of the draft law, registration number 3535 "On State regulation in the field of gaming business". Please vote. [[16:48:35]] For 104 The decision is not taken. Now that we have agreed on the position, the second proposal for approval, the second reading and, as a whole, the draft Act on State regulation of gambling activities is now in place. Registration number 3535. I'd like to make a statement. [[16:49:10]] For -6 The decision is not taken. The law is rejected. Then, in order to maintain the purity of the second reading of the draft law, registration number 3535. Please vote. To the others again. No, no, no. What can I do? [[16:49:38]] For two. The bill was rejected. [[Registration number 3535]] Now, if you'll excuse me! Now we need to consider the inclusion of the day-to-day draft of the Act on the Placement of Playgrounds. There are three of them: registration number 4452 are government, 4452-1 are the authors of the National Deputies Billozer and Krill, and 4452-2 are the authors of the People's Deputies Costenko and Jojik. I'm voting on the inclusion of registration numbers 4452, 4452-1, 4452-2. Please vote. [[16:50:40]] For-149 The decision is not taken. Now let's move on, dear fellows! Now we need to get into the agenda and decide what to do about the bill. Bill 4397 on Amendments to the Ukrainian Act "On Organizing and Conducting the Final Part of the 2012 European Football Championship in Ukraine" for inclusion in the agenda and decision-making. [[new editor]] Please vote. [[16:51:30.]] For 349 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! I'm asking your support, because we have a lot of questions, and we have a little more hours left to work on draft Law 4397 as well. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. [[16:52:03]] For 193 Decision taken. Rapporteur – Deputy Minister of Economy Vitrenco Yuri Mikolajovic, co-rapporteur – Head of the Committee on Family and Youth Sports and Tourism Policy Kostenko Pavel Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u52	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! The adoption of a bill amending the Ukrainian Act on the organisation and implementation of the final part of the European Championship 2012 from football aims to improve the preparations for the final part of the 2012 European Championship in Ukraine. UEFA sums up the final part of the 2008 European Championship in Austria and Switzerland, the continuous inspection of 2012 infrastructure facilities in our country, the decision of the UEFA the week before this year, a significant number of requirements for the preparation of appropriate infrastructure have been clarified: stadiums, training bases, airports, facilities, etc., safety concepts and medical services. This objectively calls for appropriate changes to the system of tasks and actions determined by Ukraine in the legislative and regulatory provision of the championship. Since the number of changes and their importance are quite significant, the current Law of Ukraine is proposed in a new edition. The proposed bill is unique. Its uniqueness is primarily explained by the fact that it defines the mechanism for preparing for a world-wide event in Ukraine in the final part of the European Championship in Ukraine from football. Prior to such an event in an independent Ukraine, preparations had not yet been made. The uniqueness of this law is also explained by the fact that it has specific deadlines for action 2012.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u53	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u54	2012 It limits itself to a clear list of objects and regulates a limited circle of relationships. We structured it in six chapters. In particular, such terms as UEFA safeguards, championships, infrastructure master plan, and national coordinators were clarified. All of these have specified the responsibility of the Cabinet of Ministers, the central authorities of the executive branch. The functions of the central executive authorities and local authorities have been defined. The foundations for UEFA and the Ukrainian Football Federation have been established. The role and place of the government program, the target program, the development and approval of the infrastructure master plan, according to which the UEFA requirements are being prepared, have been clearly identified. The construction features of the buildings, the buying - out of land, were detailed. In addition, the implementation of the guarantees given by Ukraine to UEFA was clarified. By now, our discussion had shown that the vast majority of the committees had offered to accept them as a basis. We worked out the findings of the Chief Executive, which we also offered to take as a basis for comments. We have studied the notes carefully, and we know that they will soon be reconciled.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u55	Thank you. Thank you, all of you, Yuri Mikolaiovich, please sit down. Paul Ivanovich Kostenko, please make the decision of the committee. Please sit down. Short-term procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u56	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! The Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport and Tourism at its meeting on 13 May 2009 reviewed the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the organisation and holding of the final part of the 2012 European Football Championship in Ukraine, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. [[Registration number 4397]] The adoption of the bill aims to improve legislative preparation for the final part of the 2012 European Football Championship in Ukraine. UEFA summed up the final part of the 2008 European Championship in Austria and Switzerland to specify a large number of requirements for the preparation of appropriate infrastructure for receiving cities, stadiums, training bases, airports, facilities, and so on, safety concepts, and medical services. This, in turn, objectively calls for the need to make appropriate changes to the system of tasks and actions determined by Ukraine in the legislative and regulatory provision of the championship. The committee noted that the bill specified the mandate, functions, tasks of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, in particular its coordinating role with regard to the activities of central and local executives, local self-government bodies involved in the preparation and conduct of the championship, defined the functions of the central and local executives, local self-government bodies for the development, approval, execution of tasks and actions, relevant sectoral, regional and city programmes for the preparation and conduct of the championship, the master plan, infrastructure, the concept of carrying out an analysis of the status of the tasks and actions of these programmes, defined the basis for cooperation with the UEFA and the Federation of football of Ukraine on the implementation of commitments and guarantees set out in the contract for the holding of the championship, the provision of expert assistance for the organization and the holding of the championship. The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u57	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u58	The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in its first reading, a draft of the Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Act “On the organisation and holding of the final part of the 2012 European Football Championship”, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and to adopt it as a basis, and after finalizing the next deadline to accept it in the second reading. [[Registration number 4397]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u59	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? Nobody insists? Please sign up. Please, Valery Bondick, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u60	Vladimir Mihajlovich, please pass the word to Victor Koržu.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u61	Victor Corge, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u62	Victor Corge, Party of Regions. Dear colleagues, this bill must be supported, but I would like to point out that it is considered a minimum of a year later than we would like to see it. And it's very sad that it's only today that we're looking at such issues as empowering local self-government authorities in the area of preparing for and holding a marked championship, when we've had a few months to risk its final loss. Then I would like to draw attention to terminology, to the use of completely misunderstood foreign words in this law, but not the main one. I would like to stress that the intellectual property rights of UEFA and other such issues are clearly regulated and that there is no room for regulating such an important issue as providing guarantees to landowners, namely confiscation and removal, and so on. So when you look at the fact that you haven't even been able to figure out what a ticket is and there's a difference in this basic issue, I would certainly ask the drafters of the bill, the profile committee to work seriously, we're ready to provide appropriate assistance and we urgently need to improve it and accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u63	National MP Carpuk, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u64	Vladimir Karpuk, MP “For Ukraine!” I support my colleague’s opinion on the need for this legislative act and he has been in the Supreme Council for almost a month. Of course, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, such bills should be adopted faster, because we are still late, preparing the legislative base for the European Football Championship in Ukraine. And I pay attention to the fact that there is such a dilemma. There is a need for the adoption of this bill as soon as possible, and this includes not only amendments to the Act on the organisation and holding of the final part of the European Football Championship in Ukraine, but also to a number of other laws, including the Land Code of Ukraine, to the "On Planning and Construction of Territories" because we understand that the main goal is to hold a championship, but it needs to be changed and the law needs to be adopted. And given that, in fact, there are very important safety principles for the championship, so I agree with the scientific expertise that should be introduced into separate articles or a section on security. And that's why this law needs to be redrafted. There may be a need to create a working group, taking into account the numerous observations made by the Scientific and Scientific Administration, both with regard to the understandable apparatus of the legal act itself and with regard to changes in other laws. And we support this bill. And I propose, indeed, to work intensively on it and to accept it as a whole in the near future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u65	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. The committee's offering. Please, Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u66	Even if not recorded, the faction has a guaranteed right of 1 minute, Jaroslav Mikhajlovich. Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. No doubt there is no one in this session room who will allow himself not to vote in favour of this bill. But unfortunately, I won't focus on it because there's no time before this bill has a lot of legal comments. So let's support it now in the first reading, let's vote and ask the profile committee to prepare for the second reading for the next plenary week, taking into account the comments of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, because there's actually a lot of legal disagreements that we're going to make again after a while, because we're no longer adopting a new law, we're making changes so that it doesn't happen again in a month that we're going to make some additions. So let's take it in the first reading and the next plenary week finally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u67	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. The committee proposes to accept this as a basis, and in the process of discussion, the deputies supported this proposal, pointing to the need for rapid but serious refinement and preparation for second reading. I am voting for the adoption of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the organisation and holding of the final part of the 2012 European Football Championship in Ukraine, the new edition, registration number 4397. Please vote. [[17:05:25]] For 359 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the proposal was made, including by Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, to instruct the committee to shorten the procedure for preparation for second reading and to make it available for the next plenary week in order for the Supreme Council to make the final decision. I'm putting this motion to a vote, please support. [[17:05:57]] For 327 Decision taken. I ask the Secretariat to prepare a written commission for the committee on this matter. Dear colleagues, we need to get into the agenda right now and decide on the adoption of the 4342 Bills – amending the Ukrainian Child Health and Recreation Act, as well as 4399 – “On making changes to article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on the Recovery and Recreation of Children” (for the duration of the health change). So I am now voting on the inclusion in the agenda of Act 4342. Please vote. Dear colleagues, about the healing of children, 4342 Please vote. [[17:07:02]] For 241 We included this bill. I now put to the vote, honourable colleagues, on the inclusion in the agenda of Act 4399 on the introduction to the article of the First Law on the Health and Recreation of Children on the duration of the health change. Registration number 4399. Please vote. [[17:07:39]] For-138 Dear colleagues, “yes” – 138. The decision is not taken. But you obviously read the petitions of the people who are going on about not being able to send the child away for a full change, so it was suggested that the change would be at least 14 days to heal the children. But you didn't put it into the agenda, so we won't look at it. People's deputy Karpuk, then Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u68	Vladimir Karpuk. Dear national MPs, distinguished radio listeners! Why did we not vote in favour of Law 4399, passed by the national MP Harah? Because this bill is about reducing the period of a child’s stay in a child’s health care facility from 21 days to 14 days during the summer period of 12 days during the winter period. Because chasing numbers, the number of healthy children. Being in the camps of the day is not, as a doctor, as a professional, I say, a full recovery. And because being there, moving a child from one place to another, let's say, to Crimea or Carpathian or to other areas needs a period of adaptation between 10 and 14 days. Thus, such a reduction would not be a cure but would result in the destruction of the immune system and the disease of the children. And now, think about the number, for every child there are two chronic diseases on average. And virtually no healthy child leaves school. That's why we're here.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u69	Please, Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u70	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues! I support my colleague Karpuk. Please see what is proposed in the bill. Anyone who wants to, he can rest for one day if he wants to. But here's the legislation, and who? The head of the union. The head of the union of the state proposes that instead of the 21 - day rule established by law, it be reduced to 12 days, that is, more than 12 days, you cannot be. I mean, let's not take a peek, it's not the concern that there be more, please, you don't want to be 21 days, you want to be at least one day, but here, legally instead of 21 days, the head of the union is offering to set 12 days and no more. So it can't be supported in any way, so there's a whole series of laws where it's not 21 days, it's 2 months for Chernobyl kids, and so on. That is, we very much want to be wise, and by no means can we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u71	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u72	Dear colleagues! But I'll tell you, I'd like to ask you in the session room without any fake pathetics or indignation. There are 460 children’s health facilities in Ukraine, 50 percent of which can no longer be opened this summer because there is no funding. The bill foresees a healthy change in the presence of a child in a children's institution, a 21-day rehabilitation of a sanatorium, at least on the 21st day. At least 14 days in other institutions during the summer period. Why? But because travel costs today, do you know how much a child's journey costs? From three to six thousand dollars, it's worth a trip today. Of these, 37 percent are paid by parents, and the rest is paid by the social insurance fund at the time of temporary loss of employment. If we don't take this step, please, we're narrowing it down sharply to children who can recover this summer. That's it, that's what's behind this fake pathetic of yours.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u73	National MP Soroczynska, BUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u74	Dear National Deputies! When I cross the country, I want to report that the local sanatoriums are beautiful in the Vinnitsky region, in the Zakarpatsky region, in other areas. We need to use the bases not only of Crimea but also territorially and necessarily for 21, 24 days, two months depending on the child’s illness. And I also give the word to the national deputy of Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u75	Please, Pavlovsky 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u76	Dear colleagues, as a member of the Social Committee, I would like to inform you that this bill has not been considered, that the committee has been withdrawn, because there is a negative conclusion of our analytical and legal administration of this, the more I support my colleague and Karpuk and Soroczynski. He's reducing the child's change from 21 to 14. This is actually the lobbyist bill of some of our trade union bosses and businessmen from trade unions. And the deputies wisely did not support him. I don't think this lobbyist thing is going to go through this room anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u77	Dear colleagues, we've exchanged thoughts, and now let's hear what's going on and listen to the sound of common sense about this bill. So I'm going to report, obviously you, honourable national MPs, haven't read a lot of references that come from places where we don't have any children's health care at all. And you're obviously respected colleagues, not all of you know the amount to be paid and what you've proposed, it's for the commission that the committee has prepared a bill to support these institutions to open up, and you're putting politics ahead of time. And I'm reading: a healthy change in the time of the child's stay in a sanatorium at least 21 days, in other health facilities at least 14 days, in the summer period, and in less than 12 other times to set a minimum that can't be lowered below, and you can go higher. And this is due to the fact that huge amounts are not raised if the father wants to, he will send the child in half, which will be possible, along with the unions and the parents. And it was I who gave the commission to make the petitions that went, to prepare the corresponding bill, you didn't read it, and you're all here demonstrating politics. For this reason, the protectors of the people! Children’s sanatoriums don’t open, and city mayors come and say that we won’t open at all, in the same Sevierogonetic. Then you'll have to figure it out, and then you'll have to talk politics. I apologize for the emotion! But you didn't get it. I am voting on the question of the inclusion in the agenda of Act 4399 on the amendment of article 1 of the Ukrainian Act on the Recovery and Recreation of Children. [[on Health Change Duration]] Please vote. [[17:15:12]] For 271 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues! Let's do it this way. We have a lot of social laws, so now we're going to do a report on each of these laws, we're going to discuss them together, and we're going to do a separate vote. Is there no objection? Oh, I'm sorry! We're just back on board. And now I'm voting for the inclusion in the agenda and the decision on Bill 4399. Please vote. [[17:15:56]] For 273 Decision taken. So, dear colleagues, let's go to the reports. 4342. Reporter - Minister for Family Affairs, Youth and Sports Pavlenko Yuri Alexiyovich The reporter, 4399, will be Suhi Jaroslav Mikhajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u78	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine, Reverend Mr. Head! Indeed, this year’s healing of children has a special effect because for the first time in 18 years, the law that regulates the health and rest system of children has been passed. To implement this law, I want to inform the people's deputies, a whole series of normative documents have been adopted by the government today. In particular, the standard for children’s health facilities has been approved. The State Register of Children’s Health Institutions has been approved, the procedure for conducting tests, the technical requirements for camps, and the placement of children. Today, the relevant ministries and departments responsible together with the Attorney-General's Office are being scrutinized in detail for each child's health care facility to comply with its requirements under the law and relevant legislation. First of all, this is the safety and quality of the child’s recovery are put at the top of this health - care company. At the same time, the documents adopted by the Supreme Council and entered into force this year have a number of points that need to be settled because they cannot always be effectively implemented in practice. I'd like to invite people's deputies, profile committees to participate in the work of a group that is starting to work to make changes to the existing law in order to make it as effective as possible. At the same time, there are a number of changes that require an immediate response with a view to consolidating all the central and local budgets for the recovery of children this summer. This is particularly true of the category of the benefits, the categories of children who need special attention and support from the State. They are undoubtedly children of orphans, children deprived of parental care, children of many children, victims of the Chernobyl disaster, as well as the winners of the all - Ukrainian Olympics, contests, and so forth.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u79	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u80	There are a number of other technical changes that will allow us to do our utmost at a high level to carry out a health-care company this year, despite the fact that there is a financial and economic crisis not to reduce the number of children, especially the non-individual income categories compared to last year's. I would like to adopt this bill as a basis for the first reading and for the whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u81	Thank you. Dear colleagues, now Bill 4399. Jaroslav Mikhailovich, are you from the committee? Please report to Bill 4399. And get ready from the profile committee that was looking at this document. I can't see Lukyan's. And a family committee, a youth policy. Anyone speaking, please prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u82	Dear colleagues, not for the first time since the 1990s, the healing of our children is under real, specific threat because of completely understandable objective and subjective considerations. And the main thing is the lack of financial and economic, resource provision for children's senior health. We have to do everything in this session room, think about how and how to get out of this position. Vladimir Mikhailovich has already said that the letters that come to his address, the letters that come to our committee and the Committee on Family and Youth, speak of one thing: there is a lack of funds in place. There is a lack of social insurance funds at the time of temporary loss of employment. Colleagues, no politics. But the rate of decline in production has decreased slightly, but they have room. So there's a lot of businesses, factories, factories that pay zero wages. From this zero to the social insurance fund from all insurance cases, including temporary loss of employment. Today, at the cost of this trip up to 6,000 dollars, the journey is simply unreachable and unreachable. So the only thing that needs to be done is to diversify the term of a child in a hospital, leave 21 days. Dr. Karpuk is certainly right. 21 days is the term for child adaptation, for acclimatization and for full rest. And there are other types of summer and pioneer vacations there for 14 days in summer and 12 days in winter. It must be the minimum that the state cannot cross. That's why I'm calling for this bill to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u83	From the committee, please. Who will report from the committee? There's a committee of youth policy, it's a different committee. You don't? Please sign up for two drafts. Ah, Kostenko, please. Head of the committee. 4342 and 4399.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u84	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, is registration number 4342. The Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport and Tourism, at its meeting on 13 May 2009, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Recovery and Rest of Children. I would like to point out that, following the entry into force of the Ukrainian Health and Recreation Act on 1 January 2009, numerous appeals are made to the committee by the executive authorities and the local self-government authorities on the issue of financing the rehabilitation of orphans and children deprived of parental care. Under the current law, the rehabilitation of orphans and children deprived of parental care is carried out solely at the expense of the state budget. However, the funds allocated to the 2009 budget for recovery are not sufficient for the recovery of this category of children. Much higher recovery costs are allocated in local budgets. I would like to remind you that during the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 17 April, a number of comments were made regarding the inclusion of the bill in the agenda by the Ukrainian people's deputies, and the bill was not included in the agenda. The amended bill takes into account comments made by the members of the factions of the Party of the Regions and the Communist Party of Ukraine on the inadmissibility of amending paragraph two of article five of the law. In its conclusion, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. Considering that the healing season had actually begun, the committee had decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian law amending the Ukrainian Law on Child Health and Recreation, registration number 4342, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, in the first reading, and to adopt it as a basis and as a whole. At the same time, the committee suggests that at the end of the year, it examine how the changes made to the law contributed to improving the health and rest of children.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u85	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u86	Please support this bill and accept it in the first reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u87	What about 4399?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u88	Also, on May 13, 2009, the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport and Tourism reviewed the draft law of the Ukrainian Act amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Act on the Recovery and Rest of Children. [[on Health Change Duration]] Registration number 4399, introduced by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Harah According to members of the committee, reducing the length of the child’s recovery, limiting the child’s right to full rest and recovery will harm the recovery and treatment of the weakened treatment of the child in need. In addressing this issue, it should also be borne in mind that the legal deadline for the recovery of children, due to the optimum period of acclimatization and the necessary treatment for children in specific areas, such as the Carpathian region and the Crimea, only takes about 12 days to adapt children to new climate conditions. In addition, if a child needs to be cured, doctors recommend that he be fully applied, regardless of whether he or she is undergoing schooling. The Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian law amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on the Recovery and Recreation of Children”, registration number 4399, submitted by the National Deputy of Ukraine Hara, in the first reading and rejecting it. [[on Health Change Duration]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u89	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Let's talk about it, dear fellows! If so, please sign in. Please sign up. It's a recording. I'd like you to put on the board the name of the national MPs who signed up. Pavlovski People's Deputy, faction of the “Blanket of Yulia Timoshenko”. Next is Michaela the Tooth.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u90	Dear colleagues, I propose to support the first, governmental, bill, which deals mainly with issues related to the recovery of children for this year, and does not support another bill. I said before why. I think it's necessary not with emotion, too, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, to say, but also with the Head of the Supreme Council to look at these bills calmly and see what the question is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u91	I want to say that these papers were being prepared after we were working on a huge array of documents. And you, dear fellow, read, and then you'll talk. Please, Mikhaylo Zubec, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u92	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, please give the floor to Deputy Korz.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u93	Turn it off, take it off, please. You can't do that. Please, Viziewski. Well, why are you doing this? Viennese, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u94	“Our Ukraine”, the parliamentary group “For Ukraine!” I want to express my position. Neither law nor law deserve to be voted for. First. One law, which is offered by companies that are very close to the Social Insurance Fund, wants to show how many children will be cured, but instead, the whole amount of money will be directed to them rather than to children. The second law that the government is proposing instead means that we don't have enough money, but we're giving everyone a chance to go to the local authorities, because it's close to the government, and it's far away, and we're going to grab their necks and say, "Give us a tour." Thus, neither law nor law solves matters for children, nor does it deal conceptually with how to heal them during the summer or winter periods. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u95	Thank you. Catherine Samuel, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u96	I want to express my point of view on the second bill. Of course, this bill cannot be adopted, and for one reason: It severely narrows down the rights that our children still had. Please remember, when Longzhenko suggested that from 28 days down, that we reduce our stay from 28 days to 21st day, we immediately made a decision on this minister's unsatisfying work. What is proposed today? And it is proposed to the Ukrainian National Deputies, who are in charge of a trade movement that should be just to protect the interests of both parents and children, to cut off, cut off under such a slogan that it will be better for them today. It was better when you didn't support Artek. A year later, when he was almost destroyed, they returned to that question. And so the second bill, you don't have to vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u97	Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. Please. Please, Jaroslav Suhi. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u98	Dear colleagues, we have an early summer recovery season for children. I think you can put aside your emotions and your space here. I'm making a motion to vote on the following. The bill of government should certainly be supported, but only in the first reading. Why? You know very well, there are discriminatory standards. Then they need to be fixed by the committee. So I'm proposing to support this bill in the first reading. Similarly, support Bill Harry in his first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u99	Please, Minister Pavelenko. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u100	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! I very much ask the Hall to support the bills today in the first and in general, because the health campaign is about to begin. Today, May 21, as of June 1, healing is on its way. We do have a financial resource problem. And in order for us to save ourselves, to carry out the most effective health campaign, I would ask the first bill of government on the basis and in general, to consolidate all resources for recovery. And in principle, on behalf of the government, I can express my position. We don't deny the MP's bill either.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u101	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? The proposal for a committee on adoption is based on the draft Law, registration number 4342, amending the Ukrainian Law on Child Health and Recreation. [[17:31:37]] For 351 Decision taken. No, just one minute. Dear colleagues! This proposal was made here to consider and vote on the basis of 4399 and then to go back to. Dear colleagues! We're looking at one question, but at the same time, I'm going to put it to a vote to finish the discussion so there's no claim. Tell me, who would object to one minute who would deny that we would now adopt Law 4342 as a whole? None. I am voting on adoption in the second reading, and in general, as bill of draft law registration number 4342, amending the Ukrainian Law on the Recovery and Recreation of Children. Please vote. [[17:32:58]] For 249 The law is passed. Dear colleagues! By factions, please calm down. The factions. Region Party 7, Timoshenko Yulia Block - 143, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" - 41, Communist faction - 27, Litvina Block - 20. Now in the case of Law 4399. Dear colleagues! Without emotion, I want to tell you again what this is all about, think about sanatorium treatment for at least 21 days. It's two months old, and more, in special cases, it's still there. What are we talking about? It's about the health camps that can't open up today if there's a ceiling of 21 days and it's offered to be at least 14 days, it's a healing camp. Because they are addressing, including the Supreme Council of Ukraine, district administrations and councils, business leaders, that they will not be able to open these camps because they will not pull. And if there's a 14-day change in health camps, they'll be able to send their kids there, and the unions will be able to support you, you know what this is about. It's not at all, it's about reducing children's health, it's about the camps that we used to call rest and work, that's what we're talking about. And the commission committee prepared that no, no, I'm telling you that yes, yes. I am voting for the adoption on the basis of draft Law 4399 amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on the Health and Rest of Children on the Duration of Health Change, please vote. [[17:35:05]] For-173 The decision is not taken. I will send you letters and letters of honor, that you may read them at that time. It's not the committee, it's the faction. The law is rejected. I would like to vote on the inclusion in the agenda and the adoption of a decision on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2009. [[on improving the financing of sanatorium-sort health and rehabilitation of spinach disabled persons]] Registration number 4294. To enter the agenda, please. [[17:36:05]] For 304 We've put it into the agenda. Reporter is Ukrainian national deputy Suškević Valerij, please. Láško Oleg Valeriovich will be the narrator.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u102	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich! I want to remind you that in December of last year, we started the theme of sleepers in a sanatorium. Burden. And for today, I have to say that unfortunately, because prices for travel have risen today, it needs additional funds to provide the disabled with travel to sanatorium. Dear colleagues! The situation is that sleepers with disabilities are a category of people with disabilities who have specific injuries that cannot be really left without sanatorium treatment and special treatment. That's why the draft bill proposes to increase the cost of a health care programme by 19 million dollars to provide most of the disabled with sanitation. In addition, respected colleagues, we have the only hospital in Ukraine for spinach disabled people who are most qualified to provide assistance when surgery is needed. This hospital is also offered an additional 3 million dollars -- it's a specialized hospital, which is actually the only hospital in the Soviet Union. And it's proposed to add 3 million bracelets to the operating equipment for the dormitory disabled. The bill is balanced, respectable colleagues. The point is that last December a zero excise duty on alcohol was set for medicine. This resulted in a surplus of funds under this article, and it was in a balanced way to support the disabled with their travel and treatment. The bill is fully supported by the Ministry of Finance, the professional committees.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u103	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u104	Supported by the Committee on Pensioners, Disabled Veterans, and the Budget Committee. And I'm asking you to support this bill so that we can really help people who need it. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u105	Thank you. Oleg Lazko, please, the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u106	Dear Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, distinguished national deputies! The Committee on Budget Affairs has considered a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2009 to improve the financing of sanitary and curorative rehabilitation of disabled persons and the medical rehabilitation of spinal disabled persons submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputies Suškević, Biruk. [[Registration number 4294]] The main purpose of the bill before you is to improve the financial security of the sanatorium and the health care of the disabled and the medical rehabilitation of the sleepers. An increase of 22 million dollars in government budget expenditure is proposed for a corresponding reduction in the expenditure of the Ministry of Health to compensate manufacturers of additional costs associated with the increase of excise duty on ethyl alcohol from 1 January 2004, which is used to produce medicines that will not be used in connection with the acquisition of the Act of 25 December 2008 No. 797 on amending certain laws of Ukraine on taxation issues, which has established a zero excise duty rate on alcohol used for the manufacture of medical devices. Expenditures for the provision of disabled and disabled black people with a special transport amount of 1.2 million dollars are proposed to be made on the basis of additional revenues to the state budget special fund. Costs from the implementation of cars returned by disabled persons corresponding to article 6, paragraph 37 and article 34, paragraph 42, of the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget 2009. So this is what the defined project is balanced about the budget. In view of the above, we propose to the Supreme Council that the bill be adopted as a basis and generally as a law. In addition, in line with budgetary legislation and the active practice of drafting laws amending the State Budget Act, it is necessary to exclude the text that explains the purpose from the drafting of the law for signature to the Head of the Supreme Council if it is adopted.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u107	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u108	In its name, in section 1, paragraph 1, and in additions that are editorial refinements. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u109	Dear colleagues! Is there a need to discuss the project? Nobody insists? Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u110	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko, head of the Ukrainian Veterans Organization Council Dear colleagues, surely this draft change to the State Budget needs to be supported. At the same time, we need to support the overall budget and review, because the mass of issues that need to be addressed by these urgent problems is now stopped, and the issues that are equally important. But I want to speak to Valeri Mikhailovich and representatives of the Ministry of Labour, Social Policy, and Health. I believe that this document should be called not only “to improve funding”, but, Vladimir Mikhajlovich, well, I am also addressing you, but also to have such a footnote:“. and improve the efficiency of the use of targeted budgetary resources." What do I mean? Dear colleagues, let's face it, this problem has not only been caused by the low cost, but also by the inefficient use of it. Do you remember when wheelchair invalids were forced to cover the road? Why? Because a tender was conducted in such a way that the treatment facility, which had the best base, the best frames for effective treatment of people with disabilities, remained outside the tender. So the point is that we have to be very clear, transparent and fair about the tenders. And to do that, you obviously have to take not 1-2, but at least 3-4, which is not only the cost of travel that can be artificially understated, but also a few indicators that characterize the functioning of this medical facility. So in support of these changes to the State Budget, I'm still going to the Ministry representatives, and I have to take these moments into account, because they're very important in solving these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u111	Thank you, too. Who else insists? No, it's not. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukraine Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2009, 4294. [[on improving the financing of sanatorium-sort health and rehabilitation of spinach disabled persons]] Please vote. [[17:44:28]] For 352 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the committee is offering to accept it as a law. Is there no objection? Oh, no? I'm betting on vote on the second reading and as a whole the bill of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2009 (Registration No. 4294). [[on improving the financing of sanatorium-sort health and rehabilitation of spinach disabled persons]] Please vote. [[17:45:14]] For 358 The law is passed. The evening session, at your suggestion, continues for 15 minutes, up to 18 hours 15 minutes. Well, there were mad desires. Dear colleagues, we now have to consider the inclusion in the agenda of the Act on Amendments to Certain Laws of Ukraine on Excise Congregation Issues. [[Registration number 4339, 4339-1]] Ladies and gentlemen, the committee has sent a letter to postpone the consideration of this bill. So are we going to put the vote to a day-to-day vote or not? Please, Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u112	Dear colleagues, Vladimir Mikhailovich! Let's look at the inclusion in the agenda. If the committee asks for a postponement of the consideration, then if we include it, we can postpone the consideration. And if we don't turn it on, why do we have to spend time, prepare documents, and so on? That is, consider not the inclusion in the agenda and consideration, but the inclusion in the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u113	Please, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u114	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, reverend Adam Ivanovich! Well, you know, non-inclusion in the day-to-day is considered a reject. And so if we don't include it, a very important country's bill might be regarded as rejected. Therefore, it is suggested that he consider making of the three bills one, agreed upon, which would obtain the majority in the hall. And so let's support the Chief of the Supreme Council, more specifically, the proposal by the committee, which was made by Volodymyr Mikhailovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u115	Dear colleagues, let's just postpone this consideration. Mikola Kruglov, please. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u116	Dear colleagues, first of all, we don't need to talk about the bill that our country needs very much today. First, none of these bills, which were discussed on the committee, received support, including the support of the Ministry of Finance. That's the first one. And secondly, a lobbyist bill like this has never been seen before. Today, the offer is made: Let’s lower the price of vodka and increase the excise duty on wine and beer. People good, let us not yet be lobbyists in opposition between farmers and plumbers! What are we doing?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u117	Dear colleagues, let's put it this way: to get out of this coalition, you could put it to a vote. You don't support my offer of postponement. Then we can put it to a transfer vote. But what can we endure if we do not include ourselves in the agenda? Well, it doesn't make sense. So I would ask you, let's put it in the agenda, let the committee be defined. And then we'll be in the process of making decisions about one thing or another. Please, Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u118	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! So it turns out that, of course, every industry is trying to save itself. It's not the industry's fault, it's the government's fault, including us, that we've created such conditions that everyone survives alone. So you can't blame them. I therefore fully support Oleg Lazko's proposal to postpone the consideration of these bills for a week or two. Let them further consider what comprehensive bill to adopt in order for the House to vote. To defer consideration, not including.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u119	Dear colleagues, then I ask you to accept such an offer. Since it is not included in the agenda, we simply postpone it and return to the agenda when we are ready. Because there's no point in voting postponement now, because it's not included. Is there no objection? Thank you. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I am voting on the proposal for inclusion in the agenda and the adoption of a decision on the draft Act amending the Law on Added Cost Tax on the application of special taxation rules for farmers in the implementation of their own products. Registration number 4381. Please vote. [[17:49:59]] For 333 Decision taken. Reporter is Ukrainian National Deputy Catherine Timofievna Vashtuk, co-reporter, who's from the committee? And from the committee, please. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u120	Dear colleagues! It is such an important law that everyone today must be approached by farmers. What does he predict? There are literally two points. He foresees releasing, extending the tax regime that we gave to the peasants on the raw materials that they recycle in their farms and implement. For example, wheat has been grown, flour has been converted, and VAT has already been paid because it is not a product. Or you made bread, it's not a product, it's not written in these codes, it's VAT. The same is true if the sugar plant has been subjected to the processing of beet trees that are grown in a given farm. There's no money factory to settle with a peasant, he's giving away sugar. Farmers, as they implement sugar, have to pay VAT, and today all those with such products are taxed with control. If they only implement it and pay VAT, this product is going to be completely bankrupt. The question is why what makes peasants from their own raw materials is not spread by this regime. Because in the tax system, they don't fully understand the standard that you and I have established that everything is produced in the village. They say, write down what is processed only from its own, its own raw material, unpurchased, its own, and its donor conditions are processed from its own raw materials. This is a request, let us vote in favour of this law both in the first reading and in general, and let us free the peasants from that yoke.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u121	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u122	Because today is a particularly critical situation with sugar, and so the beets don't sow, the price of sugar is what, and the peasants have sugar, they don't sell it, because they're afraid there's going to be a tax fine tomorrow, and VAT has to be paid. I ask you very much to vote on this law now, there are two points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u123	Thank you. Dear colleagues, are we going to discuss the bill? Oh, no? Then I put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt as a basis for the draft Act registration number 4381 on the amendment of the Ukrainian Law on Value Added Tax. [[on the application of special taxation rules for farmers in the implementation of their own products]] [[17:53:43]] For 323 Decision taken. No warning? Here's an offer to accept the project. You don't? I am voting on the adoption of the second reading and, in general, as the Act, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Value Added Tax. [[on the application of special taxation rules for farmers in the implementation of their own products]] Registration number 4381. Please vote. [[17:54:28]] For 318 The law is passed. Dear colleagues! In turn, draft Law registration number 4107. But at the same time, I would like to inform you that a letter of suggestion from the author of the draft law has arrived to defer the consideration of inclusion in the agenda. Let us take this to heart and I want to inform you that on Monday at the Conciliation Council, we will obviously bring to the attention of everyone that if we approve the schedule of meetings, we will record and carry as required by the Rules of Exclusive Voting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Because it's a, well, it's a situation. First, they demand that the meeting be scheduled, and then they are mass-delayed. Dear colleagues, and the same proposal applies to Bill 4134, i.e. postpone consideration of inclusion in the agenda. I am voting for the inclusion in the agenda and the decision on draft Law 4080, amending the Law on the Status of War Veterans, guaranteeing their social protection, regarding persons who were appointed or voluntarily joined the ranks of the Soviet Army and the Navy during military appeals in 1941-1945. Yes, I'm voting for inclusion in the agenda. Dear colleagues, take down the vote. Please take off the vote. Here's a letter, again, that's what I'm talking about. Please postpone the review of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, guaranteeing their social protection, in view of the need to amend the bill. Respectfully, the national MP, the author of the Hungarian bill. Please, Peter Stepanovich Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u124	Thank you. Peter Cibenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Head of the Ukrainian Veterans' Council. Vladimir Mikhailovich, well, first of all, this phenomenon is already becoming a trend. We're doing the third draft in a row. Secondly, you know, the problem that this bill concerns is so important that I'm willing from the committee to report it and make a decision about it. Because it's about those young soldiers who were called to the army, the Soviet Army's lions during the Great Homeland War, and they're entitled to a certain benefit. And we're playing with these things. I am absolutely convinced that this decision is possible, that this bill can be considered and made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u125	Dear colleagues! That's exactly what you're saying, Peter Stepanovich. The thing is, there will be no votes on this bill now. So if we're ready to burn it, we can burn it. The thing is, you know, there are no votes. So let's do this now, Alexander Sergiyovich, that on Monday at the Conciliation Council we will lead to the knowledge that this part of the Rules is going to work. We agreed to consider. Only by decision of the Supreme Council will we be able to postpone our consideration in the face of irresistible circumstances. Please, Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u126	Vladimir Mikhailovich, then we must tell you why there are no votes in the room. The opposition should no longer be blamed for the fact that we are working very actively today; we are practically in favour of decisions that have sound meaning but do not wish to make decisions by the coalition. No social issue today, which is absolutely necessary to be adopted in our State today, is being adopted. The law, which had been drafted for several months, had been enacted three times by Timoshenko, who had promised to support him in the chemical industry, where tens of thousands of people were working, would be out of work today. I would ask you to form a coalition or really what Chechtev said today, don't embarrass people, don't embarrass the country! Write your application and resign!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m1.u127	If the Head of the Regulatory Committee addresses this address to me, I am solely guided by one principle that this Supreme Council of Ukraine should work. I can write a statement and go, but I'd like to say who's going to the election, what's going to be the result, how many people are going to sit in the session room afterwards. So I'd like to say one more moment, but we have a wild situation where the drafter of the law doesn't vote for his law and then urges someone to go somewhere. I think that what is supported by anything in the workforce is obviously all of us should make some effort to make the Supreme Council work. Let's work. May I have your attention, please? I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda and the adoption of the decision on draft Act 4189 amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine and the Act on Pre-Prisonment. [[on precautionary measures]] 4189. Please vote. [[18:00:16]] For-97 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. I would like to vote on the inclusion in the agenda and the decision on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Environmental Protection Act. [[on the introduction of natural-instrument fund categories in accordance with the Ukrainian Land Code and the Ukrainian Law on the Ukrainian Natural-Inventory Fund]] Registration number 4239. Please vote. [[18:00:57]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. I'm betting on the vote on the inclusion in the agenda and the decision on the draft decree marking the 20th anniversary of the creation of the National Movement of Ukraine for the reconstruction. Registration number 4272. [[18:01:31]] For-198 The decision is not taken. The draft decision was rejected. The factions, please. The Party of the Regions – 2, "Club of Yulia Timoshenko" – 140, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 37, communists – 0, "Clocus of Lithuania" – 19. I'm betting on the vote on the inclusion in the agenda and the decision on the draft regulation on the preparation and marking of the 75th anniversary of the stohanov movement. Registration number 3169. Please vote. [[6:02:17]] For-189 No decision taken, draft decision rejected. Evening meeting of the Supreme Council. The factions? Please. Region Party – 123, “Clock Timoshenko” – 18, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” – 1, Communists – 27, “Clock Lithuania” – 20. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow we will continue our plenary work at 10 a.m. on Friday.
