ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:31]] They registered cards in the 430 national deputies’ session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be open. Honorable National Deputies today are the birthday of our colleagues: Barbienka Vitalia Dmitrovitch and Jokes of Vasil Georgievovich. Let's welcome the people's deputies, wish them success in life. [[Applause]] Now let me give you some information about the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in plenary meetings on June 2, 2009. Thirty-seven issues of the agenda have been considered. Two laws and one decree were passed, 18 bills were adopted on a basis, and four bills were rejected. Dear national deputies in accordance with article 25 of the Rules on Wednesday, we have 30 minutes to make speeches by national deputies with proposals, statements, messages, and so forth. Please register with the National Deputies for the presentation from the rostrum. It's a recording. Eugene Chagot, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. Oleg Zarubinsky will be next. Oleg Lazko instead of Eugene Shago, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u2	Thank you. Mr. Volodymyr Mihajlovich, honourable colleagues, yesterday, there was a meeting of the budgetary committee at which the decision was taken to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of a bill under registration number 450 – amending the State Budget of Ukraine. What kind of bill is that? This is me to the knowledge of Ukrainian citizens, especially those whose or whose families are people with diabetes. The government proposes to make changes to the budget and to add an additional 200 million to the purchase of insulin for people with diabetes. A bracelet to solve this problem today. The issue of lack of funds for the purchase of insulin was raised in particular at the Conciliation Council held last Monday under the leadership of the Supreme Council. One of the people who raised this question, Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov, is the first deputy director of the faction of the Party of the Regions in the Supreme Council. And yesterday, when it was suggested to include this bill in the Supreme Council's consideration, 4503, unfortunately, our colleagues from the Party of Regions did not vote in favour of including this bill in the agenda, as did our colleagues from the Group “For Ukraine!” who daily speak and tell about the antisocial policy of the Government of Timoshenko and, nevertheless, do not vote in favour of a bill that allows almost 200 million to be allocated. a bracelet for the purchase of insulin. I'm addressing Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov, our distinguished colleagues from the faction of the Party of the Regions, from other factions: dear friends, people with diabetes, they don't have the ability to buy insulin today! The government has found opportunities to finance the State Budget for Insulin. I ask you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to ask again today about the inclusion in the agenda of Bill 4503, which solves the problems of people with diabetes who are able to obtain insulin from the State Budget, not their own money to spend, which they do not have. And the second issue I would like to focus on is the Ukrainian Budget Code, which is also prepared by the Committee on Budgets for second reading. [[new editor]] We suggest that we consider it this week. This new codex strengthens the financial basis of local self - government. We all came out of the village and the village, which is what we have to support with you. The government proposes, the budget committee has prepared, several additional possibilities, up to 10 billion dollars to get the village to repair roads, repair schools, FAPs, and so on. I ask you to support the same consideration of this bill. But today, consider 4,503 and give diabetes patients the opportunity to buy insulin. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u3	Oleg Zarubinski. Next is Odarchenko, instead of Wooden One.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u4	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, a respected colleague, cannot today deny what the Supreme Council has, or more specifically, a duty to work effectively. Returning to a state of inactivity and incompetence in Parliament's work, as it was before December 2008, is not only a blow and not so much a blow by the deputies, in the Supreme Council, it is a devastating blow to the country. And it is at a time when society needs an effective, predictable work of the only legislative body in Ukraine. Last day at the same time showed that out of the 37 fed issues of order, only two were accepted by the forces of the two factions that are now forming the coalition and that's quite symptomatic, and that's quite illustrative. Therefore, in these circumstances, understanding the situation, we, the Block of Lithuania, are in favour of expanding the responsibility base both in Parliament and in politics as a whole. We realize that today we are in opposition to be comfortable, especially on the electoral campaign front. Conveniently, but conveniently for MPs, not for society. On the other hand, we can't even say that culinary arrangements are not the way to expand the responsibility base, to join an existing coalition of political powers that are not yet part of the coalition. Therefore, the “Litwina Block ” against the culinary arrangements. We will not consecrate the arrangements that are made in such a regime. As early as September, we were opposed to dividing the country into two. Our position here remains absolutely consistent, our position remains so that the country cannot be divided into two political forces, two systems, two empires and so forth. In these circumstances, I stress once again that the Block of Lithuania is based on the fact that expanding the basis of political responsibility in Parliament is a matter of time and that is a requirement of time. Cultural arrangements are a blow to the expansion of such a shared responsibility. And another thing is, Block of Lithuania doesn't accept or perceive the situation where people take the right to elect their President, just like when we don't see the situation where the MPs themselves increase their mandate. This is undemocratic, and this is largely immoral. In everything else, we say again: we work constructively, and we want Parliament to work constructively. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u5	National Deputy Odarchenko, Timoshenko Yuli Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u6	Dear colleagues! Yesterday there was a discussion of the inclusion in the agenda of the return to the state property of the Herson Machinery Plant. Unfortunately, colleagues from the Party of Regions and the Block of Lithuania didn't support this issue, so I think it needs further clarification. Now it's not just about bringing this object back to government property, it's about creating the conditions for a country-based combine building program. Because it's very strange that when we have to combine 3,000 pieces a year with our own metal, we don't produce this technique, we buy it abroad. And everything is done by the government today: the approved country team development programme, the funds allocated, the decisions taken that cover the purchase of foreign technology. There's only one thing you need to do is put order in the basic funds that make these combines. Dear colleagues, it is not a matter of destroying an investor, of some use of his authority, where it is only a matter of order in this area. The interim commission of inquiry, which we formed two months ago, has studied this issue seriously enough, and now we can argue that there are very clear, clear criminal violations at the Herson Combin factory. The Attorney General's Office has now reopened the criminal case of abuse by officials at the time of the implementation of the Herson Combin factory's stock packages. The Attorney General’s Office has committed a criminal offence involving the abuse of the factory’s officials in the production of a new combine model. Now it's all done to get the basic funds out of Herson. They have already been reselled by three legal persons. Seven hundred and forty workers were unlawfully dismissed. So today it's only a matter of establishing the legality of this plant. There is no question of a return from the budget to investors. Today, from the point of view of the law, we have all the powers and rights to bring order and to make green light to the country's combine. My fellow Members, I believe that in the report of the temporary commission of inquiry on “Aggrochasinvest” and in the wake of the bankruptcy of the Herson Combin Factory, we must return to this issue. If we do not consider it, we will sink for many years in judicial trials, and we will never have a domestic combo.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u7	Dear colleagues, instead of Roman Tkacha and Lilia Grigorovitch, will speak on Viacheslav Kirilenko. Accordingly, he has six minutes to perform.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u8	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “For Ukraine! ” Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! Yesterday's speeches by representatives of the Party of Regions and the “Timoshenko Block” confirmed that the underground negotiations on the change of constitutional order and the redistribution of power between the two political and financial groups have entered a phase of practical implementation. We regret that the leaders of the two largest parliamentary forces, Timoshenko and Yanukovic, hide in these negotiations not only from ordinary, ordinary Ukrainians, but even from representatives of their own political forces, even from members of their own factions. We realize that the coming days will be spent hanging noodles in the ears of Ukrainian citizens, that sudden love, political love between Timoshenko and Yanukovic has suddenly become a source of prosperity, stability and prosperity. It is as if being in power as Prime Minister or as leader of the largest opposition faction cannot be kept in and out of Parliament every day for the welfare, stability and prosperity of Ukrainian citizens. It's obvious that these conversations are just the cover-up of a large-scale constitutional conspiracy whose essence is to take over power by 2014, at least a year, but without any influence on this power of Ukrainian citizens. This, of course, is the essence of changes that are not officially represented in Parliament, but are well known to all who are engaged in public activities in Ukraine. Therefore, on the one hand, we call for these documents to be submitted to Parliament as soon as possible, and on the other hand, the situation is so complex and dangerous for Ukraine that the public movement "For Ukraine" and the parliamentary group "For Ukraine" are obliged to publish their public official position. We did this a few days ago as soon as the underground arrangements were finally reached. And we say to the voters, no matter what political power they have supported in the last elections, that the “For Ukraine” movement will not run between the dots, will not try to launder between the two political clans that want to usurp power. Our position will be clear: we are against the constitutional conspiracy. We will do our utmost not to allow the Ukrainian people, the two political and financial clans, to take away the last one, perhaps what is in this people -- the right to choose for themselves the head of the Ukrainian State in public and directly. Of course, we will not sit around with our hands, realizing that it is not the MPs who can become just statisticians and blind performers of the will of their leaders, but only the Ukrainian people, regardless of their political views and of the East, and the West can stop this constitutional conspiracy. This is only for the activity of people who will certainly be disappointed in their political leaders. We hope we are now mentioning interesting words, not our own, but Prime Minister Timoshenko's about how the Yanukovich government stole $60 a second. We are now mentioning interesting words, not ours, but Janukovich, that there is no business with this government and how he called people to Midan Independence to an untimely protest. And now these two policies for the period until 2014, when they're talking to each other, they want to take away all Ukrainians and those who support them and those who don't, any right to choose. We ask: “Where were the true words, then or now? ” And what's more important to these politicians, not politicians, is the truth before their electorate or conspiracy in the interests of further enrichment and political manipulation of people for many years to come. Therefore, the public movement “For Ukraine!” states that we are firmly opposed to transferring the President’s elections to Parliament, and we firmly oppose the implementation of a foreign imported scenario in Ukraine, which foresees that Ukrainians will never again choose the head of state, and that we will elect 300 deputies, who in turn are controlled by four or five oligarchic clans. The fifth column in Ukraine, beginning in 91st, since Ukraine's independence, has always been in favour of abolishing the presidency as such. In carrying out an ancient Kremlin dream that Ukraine is independent just as long as it has a publicly elected president, we understand that this imported foreign scenario is entering a decisive phase. We understand that those politicians who are about to campaign for it will have direct political responsibility toward the Ukrainian people. And so at this time, not overemphasized by the threat, but realistically aware of it, we call upon all the patriotic forces, all the Ukrainians whose way is their country, regardless of their political views, to join in with a view not to allow this rebellion and to allow for a constitutional conspiracy, which, secretly at night, is hidden from the Ukrainian people, will no longer pass. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u9	Dear National Deputies! People’s MP Mankovsky and National Deputy Stoyan are handing over the right to speak to Hanna Hermann. So, 6 minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u10	On one occasion, the previous speaker concluded his statement with the words: “Glory to Ukraine, ” and I have to say to him: “Glory to heros! But I had to talk about insulin from the faction. And I have to talk about political love. Dear colleagues! Briefly on insulin. I'm just going to inform my colleague from BUTU that the Party of Regions has supported and will always support all the decisions that will allow people to provide insulin. And today we will vote in favour of this bill. And now for political love. You know, we're not twirls, and we rarely talk and tell people what we're talking about in faction meetings, in factions of factions. But once there was this conversation, today I'm just going to tell you what we talked about in the morning, all of us, together, what our leader was talking about. Yes, Viacheslav, we do not simply forget what was heard here from this rostrum at our address from Julia Timoshenko’s mouth. It's not just about forgetting either our leader or us, and that's why it's so hard for us to make the decision that's hanging out in the air right now, and that's why we're still being hesitant, and that's why we're still not making the decision, and we're thinking about how we should be. Should we now think about our past images, our ambitions, that we can very easily win the presidential election today in the national direct elections, because you saw yesterday's most recent ratings: our leader is more than 10 percent ahead of all possible candidates for the election and the main contender, Julius Timoshenko, and all sociologists, without exception, prophesy and predict a brilliant victory for us. All of this, of course, is clear to all. One thing is not clear: How to live after victory. Whether after the victory you should continue what has been going on since 2004, that is, the cold domestic war, when the President is at war with the Prime Minister, they are both at war with Parliament and there is no end to it, and people are suffering greatly. Whether we should think today not of a brilliant victory and not of a triumphant fanfare, but, as responsible politicians, we should think about how Ukraine will live after the victory of the new President. Ukraine can live after the victory of the new President, taking into account the situation that is now very difficult, only by choosing a way of uniting the political forces. And so, Mr. Viacheslave, we can rise above the images, we must rise above the images, and hide our ambitions, because the responsibility before the people, before the one who hopes in us and our candidate in the Presidents, who now has every chance of winning any form of presidential election, this responsibility gives us the sense that we should forget the insults, we are not little children and we are not virtuous girls, we must think of the state, we must think of the state! And you can talk about whether you should walk in the rain or not is your problems, but I would ask you to think about responsibility too. We're talking today about what might happen if we take one path out of two possible ways, because there are two ways that our leader has talked to us about today, saying that he also has a very difficult decision to make, and he wants to consult with us and with all of our voters, and with all of you. There are two ways: or we unite, we accept a common anti-crisis program, we strengthen the government, yes, it is true that you will not do anything with this government, so we must strengthen it. It's true, and we never deny our words, we will strengthen this government by professional people, we will adopt a joint anti-crisis program, together, and we hope that you too, and we will work for Ukraine to come out of the crisis to build, create the value of this state and improve the lives of every Ukrainian. And that's the big goal that makes us forget about all the images, maybe to do that, even though we're against it, it's going to take a few months to continue the mandate of the current deputies here, because we're going to have to continue the reforms and the structural changes that we're going to be dictated by that draft of the Constitution that we, if we agree, will bring to your discussion. Yes, judges will have to be chosen! Yes, we suggest that the local authorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u11	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u12	All alone without a center, they formed their own power. So we still have a lot of ideas that will expand democracy, that will expand local self-government, and that might take us a few months to do that.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u13	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Vladimir Bondarenko will speak instead of Eugene Kirilchuk
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u14	How's that for him? Eugene Kirilchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u15	Dear National Deputies! Eugene Kirilchuk “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. I want to go from big politics to our land to specific problems. The budget period, the 2010 budgeting period, has come to an end. How can you shape it? We cannot budget the old Budget Code because the budget in the first reading was adopted six months ago, and over 600 proposals for amendments to the Code were made over six months ago. Yesterday, at a meeting of the Committee on Budgets, this law was considered and adopted in a second reading, and Vladimir Mikhailovich, we ask that this code be immediately placed in the Hall and considered. Yesterday, it was reported that the vast majority of the proposals from the Association of Rural Councils were made on page 52 of the proposal, and they entered the Codex. I'm going to say that the Party of Regions has submitted an alternative project to the second reading, although this is not done, under the names of two, Pecklusenko and Janukovic, but all the positive things that are before the second reading in this code are still 100 percent. Thus, and given that today local budgets will receive more than 10 billion plus this year's level and will no longer be an aid to this system of local self-government, when we have included 100 percent of land payments, 100 percent of the pollution collection, 100 percent of the transport congregation, collection of citizens' taxes, taxes on small businesses when the budgets of villages and villages are approved at the very top. I think there's a lot of positives there, and I think that the Hall will support this code, and it's urgent for the Kabdin to be able to form a budget for the following year under the new codex. I also want to say a few words. Today you have a chance.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u16	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u17	for the inclusion in the agenda of several urgent laws that are to improve the situation on the ground, especially in the agrarian sector, in the rural councils, in support enterprises and so forth. I would like to vote positive for inclusion in the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u18	Dear colleagues, Odarchenko passed on the right to speak to Kirilchuk, and Kirilchuk, in turn, Bondarenko. That's why Bondarenko's here. I would ask you not to bring such confusion anymore. He will be followed by Valentin Grigorovich Matviev. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u19	Thank you. Vladimir Bondarenko, Timoshenko Yuli Block. I wanted to address today, as if not a political problem, but a very important one for society, for the citizens of Ukraine and in general for the image of the country. All of you remember when the Saudis came to power in the Baltic, they did their first shares interestingly: they were clearing rivers, forests, immigration zones from the garbage they were stockpiling. By this they demonstrated the political moment of the transition of Soviet power, from Soviet power to national authority. We have been national authorities for 18 years, Ukrainian authorities, but with each passing year, the country is sinking more and more into the garbage. I wanted to point out that each of you is in the woods, on the lakes, in the suburban zone. You can see that every year there's more plastic, more and more waste. Why? Unfortunately, so far there has been no such republican, state-wide concept of dealing with these wastes. And today, the government is introducing one of the bills for your consideration. And yesterday two looked into it. Today, there are 4,563 government proposals that have been considered at the country -wide meeting of heads of rural, rural, and urban councils. The issue was being raised that rural councils were unfortunately limited to the responsibilities of the polluters themselves, although the rural councils themselves were modestly silent about the fact that in the vast majority of them no special places were allocated for waste collection. And that's why when people look for a place like this, they sometimes put out all the stuff that's piled up everywhere. In particular, a terrible problem arose in the Carpathians. There's this political group that's yelling today about a conspiracy, about a conspiracy, better off going to Carpathian every year to Goverle, they'd clean up after themselves. For example, if I'm there, I'm taking everything with me that might stay there. Unfortunately, you haven't found a way to get there in all these years. What I'm saying is that in areas where there are resorts in Ukraine, where there is drinking water, especially in East, in Mirgorod, there is absolutely no further activity that will lead to the contamination of this water, because there is no centralized sewerage, and everyone does what they want. So obviously, the government has to make proposals to create a special sewer system in these places to ensure that our resorts are safe from future major problems. I'd also like to point out that there's such a harmful way of recycling, such as demercurization, these are lamps, batteries and so on. Regional centres must be created. So I'm asking you, my dear friends, to support today's government proposal for the Yulia Tymoshenko Block, including 4563u -- a law that will allow us to expand it and get out of the situation that we all went to in Ukraine together, that is, the country has become a complete dump. This should be combated, not by words, but by law and by works, and by the responsibility of the guilty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u20	The word is given by Matthew Valentin Grigorovich instead of the national deputy of Schmelov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u21	Thank you. Matthew, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! Over the past week, a group of members of our faction worked in Cherkaščina, where they met with voters, with members of the councils of all levels. After that, we generally felt that the local orange authorities, under the direction of Yashchenka and under the direct direction of his faithful servant and godfather, the head of the Archduke government, had set the ultimate goal for themselves — the destruction of Soviet monuments, the destruction of the monuments of Volodymyr Ilchi Lenin, the renown of the streets, and so on. But it is encouraging that the majority of people are speaking out against the actions of the Hallows and the very guarantor of American interests in Ukraine. Instead, there are acute, gruesome problems that need to be addressed not today but yesterday: broken large businesses, unemployment, unpaid wages, and so forth. During meetings in Chercas, voters spoke highly of the problem of closing the Dnipro bridge. The Cabinet of Ministers, despite repeated appeals, failed to find in the budget the cost of carrying out a capital repair of a bridge that had been in an emergency for a long time. It was built almost 50 years ago. On May 19, he began to repair it at the expense of the district budget. This object is strategically affected by 11,000 transportation units from Central and South Ukraine. Traveling through the Canoe’s GES was permitted, but they had not even managed to patch those terrible pits. This object, or bridge, is strategic. As far as it's concerned, people in the city have to move. But the closure of the bridge has created enormous difficulties for thousands of Churches, who have a relative area on the Left Bank of Dniepra, as well as for those who work in the district center and have to get out of work and work every day from nearby villages, villages, and cities. The only means of crossing the Dnipro bridge is in the Cherkas district.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u22	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u23	Thank you. Yet three diesel trains per day from Cherkas to Goldilocks do not provide for the needs of residents of the district center and the surrounding villages. Passengers are forced to take the wagons, as was the case during the Great Homeland War. Granted, four routes were added during the days. Yet, that is clearly not enough. Moreover, respected colleagues have developed a new problem. Access to additional routes for pensioners has been completely cancelled. In connection with this situation, the Cabinet of Ministers needs to help the Churches resolve the issue of first of all separation.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u24	Thank you, Valentin Grigorovich. Please, 10 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u25	One offer. Disbursement of 97 million dollars from the State budget for the capital repair of the bridge and provision for the extended passage on trains. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u26	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the speeches by the Ukrainian national deputies have been completed. Those suggestions that have been made in speeches, appeals, statements by national MPs, I ask the secretariat to process and prepare appropriate references, a commission to the authorities. With regard to the proposals of the national deputy Láška for the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2009 and some other laws of Ukraine, there is a proposal to put it to the vote now, to include it in the agenda at 12 o'clock of the Conciliation Council. Just as the committee will consider and the committee will decide.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u27	I suggest you, Your Honor, now put to the vote for inclusion in the agenda. At 12 o'clock, there's a meeting of the Conciliation Council, where we're going to discuss a number of issues that require reconciliation of factions' positions. And when we agree on a position, including on this issue, and the committee's decision is given in the session room, we will consider, if the goodwill of the Supreme Council is appropriate, a bill. Is there no objection? That's why I'm asking for your attention! – I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending the Law on the State Budget 2009 and some other laws of Ukraine. Registration number 4503, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u28	For inclusion in the agenda, please vote. 4503 is the registration number of the bill. [[10:39:42]] For 350. Decision taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 148, "Julia Timoshenko Block" – 152, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" – 31, communists – 0, "Block of Lithuania" – 19. Dear colleagues, insulin. There's also a problem with insulin, it's on the question of MPs. Now, dear fellows! With regard to the proposal for a second reading of the draft Law on the New Drafting of the Budget Code, let us therefore, if the committee has approved and the table is distributed today, then we will discuss the issue at the Conciliation Council and be determined when we consider it. But for the table to be distributed, national deputies must be able to get to know and make their position. At 12 o'clock there's a meeting of the Conciliation Council, and then I'm going to propose, except for the faction leaders, who should be the heads of the committees to deal with some of the issues. Now, dear fellows, we have a whole chapter of bills that we need to include in the agenda so that the committees can work on them. Please, Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u29	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, the chapter “To be included in the agenda of the session” is the result of the eight-thousandth meeting held by the Prime Minister. Without a doubt, everyone present at that meeting in the session hall is the head of the village council in favor of the adoption of these laws because they increase his budget. But I would like every head of the village council to ask their citizens who will soon vote for it, whether they're willing to pay at two, at three, ten times more local taxes to be budgeted in the village council, that's the problem. So I'm stressing again and again, for village managers, these laws are required, but for those who live in these populated places, they're dragon laws, they're local defeats again, they're local taxes again, they're land payments again, they're public employment registrations and so on, and so on and so forth. So I urge you not to support it, because it's against our voters.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u30	Sergey Teryohin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u31	Dear colleagues, indeed, were right to say that this was the result of working with thousands of heads of local councils. I remind you that now the provision of local budgets for the execution of only their own powers is on average 8% in Ukraine, there are no elections there. If this is about self - capture of land in lanes for years and seas, it is not about defeat, and it is for such things to be paid, and the land must be removed, as proposed by the government. So if we do not want to leave the situation as it is today, when local budgets cannot finance schools, kindergartens, and road construction, let us not vote. But it's empty populism what we've just heard from the previous speaker.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u32	Yes, thank you. Dear colleagues! Please prepare for the vote. There's a whole package of bills that we need to put into the agenda so that the committees can work. As for the decision-making process, we will be determined in the process of discussing these bills after the committees have processed them and prepared appropriate recommendations. Therefore, it is clear that we need to decide on the inclusion of appropriate bills in the order of the day. So please prepare for the vote. I would like to vote on the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on land relations regulation]] Please vote. [[10:44:25]] For-200 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, you can see why the factions? We'll be wasting our time. I'm just talking to my colleagues, let's either vote and make decisions, because you don't like any coalition, and you don't want to do anything. Let's make a decision about getting into the agenda. I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on the activities of non-profit organizations. Please vote. [[10:45:14]] For 211 The decision is not taken. 4566 – Amendments to the Ukrainian Personal Agriculture Act (registration in the State Employment Service). I'm betting on the vote for inclusion in the agenda. [[10:45:45.]] For 205 The decision is not taken. And so obviously, what do the factions show? The factions, please. Region Party 0, Timoshenko Yulia Block - 153, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" - 32, Communists - 0, "Block of Lithuania" - 20. On the inclusion in the agenda of the Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine. [[on Powers]] It's a day-to-day inclusion. Vote, please. I put it to a vote, Anatoly Sergiyovich! Then you'll get motive! Please. [[10:46:32]] For 197 Matvienka's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u33	The Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, the "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" block. Vladimir Mikhailovich! I just wanted to go to the MPs, to my colleagues to support this bill, because this bill allows for the expansion of the territorial communities and in this way make them self-sufficient. This bill is the answer to the fact that we today have twelve and a half thousand territorial communities, especially rural communities, six and a half, where one budgetary institution is a rural council. And without a clustering procedure, we're not going to get to the effective local authorities. So I'd like to ask you a question about getting back to the vote and supporting this bill. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u34	I'll bet you a vote. Please, Mikola Kruglov, microphone, then John Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u35	Dear colleagues! I was surprised to hear Anatoly Matviennek’s reply that it was as if it were good. Please tell me, if today's current standard in the local referendum is decided by people, and you're changing it, you're replacing the term "consultations". It's not a democracy at all. Excuse me!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u36	Ivan Kirilenko, microphone. I'm asking everyone to calm down, dear colleagues, and move on to the work rhythm.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u37	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I'm asking you to calm down. Standing in line with the daily documents discussed at the All - Ukrainian Council of Rural and Rural Heads, 10,000 people came to Kiev, these bills approved by the government at an open meeting in the presence of 10,000 villagers. Colleagues, these are the bills that have been drafted, these bills that are very much in need of local self-government today, the country, the left-wing share of funding is delegated to places, that's what we went to the polls with all the political parties without exception. We're talking about inclusion in the agenda, then the discussion will be in the room, where there are weak parties, where there is to be strengthened to that is a discussion procedure, there is a second reading procedure. Comrades, what are you blocking? Why is such leading things blocked? It's also anti-crisis stuff and we need to unload the center from non-proprietary functions, transfer everything to the scene. We ask you to maintain the inclusion in the agenda so that you can have a discussion!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u38	Yes, dear colleagues, the proposal was to revert to the issue of the inclusion in the agenda of Law 4570. Change the vote. Adam Martinyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u39	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Once again, dear colleagues, I would like to emphasize. Yes, the heads of the village councils support it, because the government has worked so that only 8 percent of their budget -- you've accepted this state budget. With regard to this bill, Anatoly Sergiyovich, what is involved in this bill is that you claim the right to unite, now unification is permitted, but by a local referendum. You're taking a local referendum out of this bill, and only the village council, the head of the village council can unite. Look, please, you're taking the country referendum out of this, so you can't be supported. And now unite; there is all things to be united. But today a referendum is to be held locally to unite, and you suggest that one head of the village council unite a dozen villages, this is the same reform of the Immortal, this is about the reform of the Immortal. Vote!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u40	Roman Tjak, faction of "Our Ukraine People's Self-Defense."
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u41	Roman Tkac, MP for Ukraine. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! In fact, you know a little bit wrong, because we've already turned this vote into a rally. Indeed, a large part of the issues were discussed at a meeting with the village heads, with the participation of the prime minister of Ukraine. And really there were a lot of right questions asked, but I'm asking everyone to calm down and just understand one thing. We're taking bill number 4560. He's bringing it in. As far as land relations are concerned. Today, in the Supreme Council, we have bill-by-laws: 2028-1, 4430, 3231, 4379, where this bill is simply written down. Those parliamentary bills have already been passed through the committees. There's a conclusion from the Science and Technology Department. And this bill, which the government is proposing, is written down. We're entering the Earth Codex again. We've already done things there that we can't handle. So I'm proposing a large portion of the bill to send back so that the government can systematically work it out and then submit it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts. The proposal was to revert to the issue of the inclusion in the agenda of Act 4570 on Local Self-Government. [[on Powers]] I'm voting on this proposal. Please vote. [[10:52:10]] For 229 Decision taken. Draft Law 4570 is included in the agenda. [[B in m in s a l in]] Come back? Excuse me. We're back. And now I'm voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the bill. [[Registration number 4570]] Dear colleagues, please calm down. About getting into the daytime. Please vote. [[10:52:50]] For 233 Decision taken. I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislation on waste disposal. Please vote for inclusion in the agenda. [[10:53:26]] For 228 Decision taken. I am voting for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending article 4-2 of the Ukrainian Act on the Transfer of Objects of State and Municipal Property Rights. Please vote. [[10:54:00]] For 207 The decision is not taken. I now vote on the inclusion in the agenda of daily bills on the features of applying a simplified system of taxation, accounting and reporting of small business entities during the period of Ukraine’s economic exit from the financial crisis. [[4549, 4549-1]] [[There's the government and the MP here.]] Please vote. For inclusion, yes, dear colleagues. [[10:54:44]] For 392 That's a coalition for you. Decision taken. 4561, on improving the system of local taxes and congregations in Ukraine I'm betting on the vote for inclusion in the agenda. Please vote. [[10:55:19]] For-198 The decision is not taken. 4562, amending the Ukrainian Land Pay Act. Please vote for inclusion in agenda 4562. [[10:55:51]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. 4564 – Amendments to the Decree of the Cabinet of Ministers on State Customs on individual rates. Please vote. [[10:56:19]] For-195 The decision is not taken. 4569 is about the addition of article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on Patenting of Certain Business Activities (with regard to the scope of this Act). For inclusion in the agenda, please vote. [[10:56:53]] For 227 Decision taken. 4567 – Amendments to the Ukrainian Act on State-wide Compulsory Social Insurance for Unemployment (for termination of the contract of employment under the contract of the parties). I'm betting on the vote for inclusion in the agenda. Please vote. [[10:57:30.]] For 203 The decision is not taken. 4568 is about amending some Ukrainian laws on the employment of citizens who own (use) land. I'll bet you a vote on the day-to-day vote, please. [[10:58:03]] For-191 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, we need to consider Bill 3533 right now -- this is a bill on real estate taxes other than land. [[real estate]] Dear colleagues, since this law has not been upheld in its own time, but there is a proposal by the government and part of the deputy corps to consider this bill, we must vote on the return to the draft bill. Please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal to return to the draft Real Estate Tax Act, which is different from the land. [[real estate]] Please vote. [[10:59:22]] For 190 The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u43	The factions? Please. Region Party - 0, “Clock Timoshenko” – 149, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” – 37, Communists – 0, “Clock of Lithuania” – 4. Dear colleagues, I now put to the vote to return to the draft Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts, registration number 4060, this is a parliamentary bill. [[May I have your attention, please?]] [[on the regulation of public property management processes]] Please vote. [[11:00:16]] For 197 The decision is not taken. A draft Act 2151-d, amending the Criminal Enforcement Code of Ukraine on the protection of the rights of convicted persons, is being announced for consideration. Dear colleagues, since we have a rather tense schedule today, I will put to the vote the proposal that we consider a reduced procedure so that we can consider all the bills. I'm putting this motion to a vote, please support. [[11:01:07]] For-198 Decision taken. The reporter is Sweden's Viktor Dmitrovich. Please, Victor Dmitrovich. And from the committee. You'll have four minutes. Just a minute. Adam Martinyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u44	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich and reporter, let's now include the next two bills in the agenda as well, and we will consider them in the complex, because the next ones are also changes to the Criminal Enforcement Code. So let's not let the reporter get offended, we'll include two more to consider, and we'll look at them in the complex. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u45	Dear colleagues. Do you mind? Dear colleagues, I thank you for giving Adam Ivanovich instructions on the following drafts. At the Conciliation Council meeting, we discussed this subject and agreed that if we consider the 2151-d bill, we will include the daily bills 4190, 4190-1 in order and consider them in substance at the same time, and we will conduct the vote separately accordingly. Therefore, I would very much like to support this proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of drafts 4190, 4190-1, to amend the Ukrainian Criminal Enforcement Code to remove restrictions on the receiving of the convicted consignments, transmissions and bandits. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u46	This is very important right now. [[11:03:03:03]] For 339
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u47	Decision taken. Now report. And then Zarubinsky and Oliynik and Gretzak will be the reporter.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u48	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! To implement the Supreme Council of Ukraine decision of 15 April 2009 at the Committee on Law Enforcement Law Enforcement, a draft of the Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Criminal Code on the protection of the rights of convicted persons in institutions for the enforcement of sentences has been finalized and prepared for review. The bill provides for amendments to the Criminal Enforcement Code with a view to improving the protection of the rights of convicted persons in institutions of execution, which is an extension of public control. Thus, members of the European Committee for the Prevention of Torture or Inhuman Behavior, heads and members of observation committees, the minister of justice of Ukraine, will be allowed to carry out their sentences without special permission. Discrimination against convicts based on race, color of skin, sex, language, religious, political, and other beliefs of national and social origin, property status, and marital status is prohibited. The project provides for amendments to certain provisions of the Criminal Enforcement Code relating to the execution of non-voluntary sentences. Thus new arrivals to the correctional center are undergoing a mandatory medical examination for 14 days. During the examination, they are kept in separate rooms. The Codex does not provide for such a standard. With regard to the execution of penalties related to the deprivation of liberty, the draft law provides for the introduction of a minimum living space to a condemned person according to European standards — 4 square feet [4 sq m] in contrast to the current standard of 3 square meters. The number of phone calls increased: Unbound conversations are set in place of one conversation a month. Persons in institutions with a minimum level of security and those sentenced to restrictions of will are given the opportunity to go outside the prison system for short periods of time. All convicted persons are granted permission to receive unfettered packages. All convicts are granted the right to request the administration to submit to a conditional release from prison or to substitute for unspent punishment with a milder penalty. For the time being, that is, in the existing code, only the administrations of the colony are granted such a right. The conditions of detention of those sentenced to eternal imprisonment are changing. In particular, short-term dating increases from once every six months to one a quarter; it is stated that women who are sentenced to permanent deprivation are placed in the middle level of safety of correctional colonies of the minimum level of safety. For men, it is possible to transfer from two-person chamber rooms to multi-purpose chambers of the chamber with permission to participate in group educational, cultural and health-related activities. Thus, the proposed replacements are aimed at humanizing our criminal execution system, implementing the norms of the European Convention on the Fundamentals of the Right to Freedom of Man and Citizens into domestic legislation and creating a positive image in and outside Ukraine. The Supreme Council Committee on Law Enforcement at its meeting on 13 May 2009 decided to recommend it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u49	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u50	To adopt this law as a basis. That's also the basic scientific and expert opinion. Please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u51	Thank you, Victor Dmitriovich. Oleg Zarubinski. And prepare for the Holy of Olives.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u52	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich! Oleg Zarubinsky, Block of Lithuania. Dear colleagues! When the idea of this legislative initiative arose, I relied on two points: a meaningful and purely legal one. With regard to a meaningful moment, I have to say that today the standards of the Ukrainian Criminal Enforcement Code that regulate the right of convicted persons to receive shipments do not work. It's true, they don't work. And this has led to a sharp deterioration in the detention regime of convicts, in part, to a significant reduction in the number of rights to receive shipments, transfers, and Banderoles. That's the first one. The other one. The situation today is even more complicated due to the socio-economic crisis, the chronic underfunding of criminal-executive institutions and their acute epidemiological situation due to tuberculosis, AIDS and other widespread diseases of infectious etiology. It's important because we see these problems often in journalistic reports, on TV, but they remain reports, and the situation in these places of deprivation remains what it is. And the purely legal aspect of amending the Ukrainian Criminal Code is also due to the need to settle the legislative gap, and it arose after the Constitutional Court's decision of 22.05.2008, the so-called subject matter of the Act on the State Budget of Ukraine. On the basis of the conclusions reached, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine ruled that there was no constitutional change to the current legislation and among them the changes made to the Ukrainian Criminal Enforcement Code and that the main reason was the removal of restrictions on the delivery of parcels, transfers and Banderoles by convicted persons. To our conviction it's totally humane, I would say, a humanitarian and fair offer, because the people who got into the places of deprivation they're not going to stop being.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u53	Celebrity Olinik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u54	Dear colleagues! The bill 4190-1 is proposed for your attention. And he has the same task as the previous colleague of Zarubinsky. At present, there are absolutely strange restrictions in Ukraine on the number of shipments of bandits that can be obtained by those sentenced to be deprived of their liberty. Such regulations reflect a mistaken approach to the process of rehabilitating those convicted of committing crimes. Thus, the real purpose of criminal punishment is to rehabilitate a person, not to humiliate his dignity and dignity. In addition, existing restrictions on the improper provision of life’s necessities for convicted persons effectively deprive them of the possibility of compensating the State’s improper provision for transfers from their parents. Obviously, the limitations of people's right to get clothes, the object of the first need, I want to make a note yet, it's about medicine, it's about literature, it's about food, it's totally not about the real recovery of the person who committed the crime. Efforts to address the identified shortcomings of legislation have been made before, in particular, the relevant changes were provided for in the 2008 State Budget Act of Ukraine. This law has also made appropriate changes to the Criminal Enforcement Code and its restrictions have been lifted. Indeed, as Zarubinsky’s colleague spoke, the decisions of the Constitutional Court were annulled solely because of the method proposed. And today we propose to do it in a normal way, that is, by appropriate changes to the law. On behalf of the teams, on behalf of the authors, on my part, and Andria Portnova, I'm asking the MPs to support any bill or ours, or Oleg Zarubinsky's bill, he has exactly the same goal, and I think we'll find a way to work on it or accept it in the paper that Oleg Zarubinsky is proposing. Please support both bills in the order in which they will be put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u55	Thank you. Vassil Mikolaiovich Gritsak, please make the decision of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u56	Dear Mr. Head, honourable members of the people, today you are invited to consider two bills to amend the Ukrainian Penal Code. [[on the lifting of restrictions on the receipt of convicted consignments, transmissions and Banderoles]] Registration numbers 4190, 4190-1 are submitted by the Zarubinsky, Oliynik and Portnovi National Deputies respectively. The introduction of these bills is due to the need to resolve the legislative gap that has arisen since the Constitutional Court passed its decision of 22.05.2008, which has not been declared constitutionally a series of changes to the current legislation. Among them are changes to the Ukrainian Penal Codes. The bill proposes to amend individual articles of the Ukrainian Criminal Enforcement Code to remove restrictions on the receipt of convicted shipments, transfers and Banderoles. In support of the legislative proposals outlined in general, I would like to point out that, in implementing the Supreme Council's decree of 15 April 2009, the Committee on Legislative Security and Law Protection prepared a draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Criminal Enforcement Code to ensure the protection of the rights of convicted persons in the enforcement agencies. [[No. 1266]] [[No. 2151-d]] The bill provides for a comprehensive amendment to the Criminal Enforcement Code of Ukraine aimed at humanizing our criminal enforcement system and implementing the rules of the European Convention on Fundamental Freedoms of Persons and Citizens in Domestic Law. This includes removing restrictions on the receipt of convicted shipments and Banderoles, telephone negotiations. This type of traction is eliminated as a temporary alteration with the cleaning of the dormitory and its adjacent territory and others. That is, most of what the authors are offering.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u57	Let's be able to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u58	That is, most of what the drafters are proposing are 4190 and 4190-1 in a co-worked committee already included. The law enforcement committee did not consider these bills. So on behalf of the committee, I propose that the Supreme Council decide to reject draft Laws 4190 and 4190-1 and to entrust the committee to take into account their individual positions when preparing for consideration in the second reading of the 2151-d bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u59	Thank you, too! Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues! Is there a need to discuss legislation? You don't? Well, if there is, please sign in, but we've already looked at it and we're going back to our first, re-reading. Please show the names of the national MPs who signed up. Mikola Kulczynski, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u60	Mikola Kulczynski, group “For Ukraine”. Of course, the bill needs to be supported and voted in favour of it today, because when we voted in favour of this bill, at least in Zarubinsky, we are therefore taking another step towards eliminating the consequences of the totalitarian communist system, for which man was nothing, a “swimming” in this system, and this has affected the entire system of punishments, and allowing shipments, for telephone conversations, is their legal right. As a result, I propose to support, support and vote in favour of the Zarubinsky bill today.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u61	Yes, thank you! Dear colleagues! No more wanting? So why didn't they sign up? Please, Vladimir Yavorovsky faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u62	Vladimir Yavorowski. Dear colleagues! It is vital that our Ukrainian society understand that we are not here today trying to turn prisons into holiday homes and so forth. But really, this has already been said here, to think about what a person who is in prison on purpose or deliberately committed a crime, remains a human being, frankly, and we haven't even deprived him of election rights. Because of both of these bills, and first of all, I would like to say that this is the collective work of Sweden, Sevkovic, Stretovich, Bebelza and others, which is extremely important, it actually radically affects that bill about the punishments we have. Two other bills, this is almost a mirror situation of what happened yesterday, when we made such a legislative attack to avoid double-dual citizenship in Ukraine. Today, we have exactly the same mirror-like bills of the Oil and Zarubinsky, which also give people the opportunity to get books when we're talking about parcels, it's not just about the hall, it's about there, it's about something else, it's about the fact that a person can get a banderol, that is, he can have access to some of the latest information sources and that sort of thing. Because, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I think we should put to the vote and go through exactly as we did yesterday, which bill will pass first or Zarubinsky, or Oliynik will leave it basic, and the rest will just be attached during the drafting to attach these other bills, put it into the body of the basic bill, and then, I think, we will do a very good, very good thing that awaits, in principle, society, because the people say very correctly, they say that you don't complain about the prison, just in case. Hide, God, that's what's going on, but let's think about these people, they're also people and our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u63	Vladimir Landik, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u64	Thank you. Vladimir Landik, factions of Party regions. You know, all the laws to improve there as if the conditions of detention of convicts are all good, and well, in the run-up to elections, that's all for the rating of some people, but those who have ever been there, work or just seen these conditions of work, I'm not talking about the detention of convicts, but work, we're on the European path, but we probably don't know, I don't think we're forgetting, and we don't know that in Europe the average number of prisoners in prisons is up to 2,000, but we're serving 2,000. We have services, security, 100-150-200 and up to 2,000 convicts, on average, about a thousand, a little more in the colonies, in the detention facilities. Therefore, any liberalization in this area has reduced control, so to speak. This number of people to control, normal control is very difficult. So when you talk to the prison system experts, with the district officials, you'll understand, the more restrictions, the better it is to control the number of people who have appointed the State to serve them, the more so when none of them are working, when we can't provide them with anything. That's why it's good, you know, for the audience, but like those places. 1,000 people to control people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u65	Dear colleagues, discussions. Bevs, please, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u66	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Well, it's strange to hear this kind of talk, the more an expert than a colonial activity. The matter is quite different. The point is that in 1997 the Supreme Council of Ukraine ratified the relevant Convention on Human Rights. And that's why these bills that are being proposed for your consideration today are absolutely in line with the requirements of this convention. And it's not like there's any pear here at all. That's the first one. Secondly, with regard to the permits that we are allowing here today in the bill, it's from our poverty. And that's what we need to figure out. And once again, there's absolutely no pear, let's say that. So there is this proposal and let's put it to a vote and adopt these bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u67	Victor Dmitrovitch, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u68	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I'd like to make some clarifications. The committee proposes to adopt Bill 2151 as a basis – a basic law that includes all aspects of the amendments to the Ukrainian Criminal Code, including those relating to punishment, conditions and everything else. But we also support the bill of the Zarubinsky People's Deputy, because it has some aspects that have not entered into the basic code. So when we work on second reading, we will either merge these two laws, or we will include the basics of Oleg Zarubinski’s bill in this Law 2151. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u69	Dear colleagues, discussions. Is that what this is about? Please. Please, Portov microphone, I said.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u70	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. We are co-authors with the national deputy Olijnik of this bill ready to support the similar bill of the national deputy Zarubinsky, and we ask all factions to support our colleague from “The Block of Lithuania! ” and vote in favour of his bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u71	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. May I have your attention, please? I am betting on the adoption of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Criminal Enforcement Code to ensure the rights of convicted persons in institutions of execution. Please vote. [[11:24:43]] For 372 Decision taken. I am now voting on the adoption of the draft Act amending the Criminal Enforcement Code of Ukraine (to remove the restrictions on the receiving of the convicted consignments (transmissions) and Banderoles) (registration No. 4190). The author is the national deputy of Ukraine, Oleg Zarubinsky. Please vote. [[11:25:24]] For 374 Decision taken. Bill 4193-1 will be taken into account in the work. Therefore, voting is not an option, since it is an alternative. Dear colleagues, the draft Law on the order of organisation and the conduct of peaceful measures has been announced. [[Registration number 2450]] Reporter – Deputy Minister of Justice Bogeshev Natalija Vladislavna, co-rapporteur – First Deputy Head of the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations Teren Viktor Vasilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u72	Mr. Golovo, honourable national deputies, the draft Law on the Order of Organization and the Conduct of Peace, was developed in connection with the need for legislative enforcement of the right of citizens to peace, and the congregations were established by article 39 of the Constitution of Ukraine. The need for a legislative solution to this issue is acute today. The organization of peace operations in Ukraine is still regulated by the decree of the Supreme Council of the Soviet Union of 88. The project is designed to take into account the provisions of international European standards on freedom of peaceful action. It is based on the provisions of the International Covenant on Civil Political Rights, the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms of 1950, and also takes into account the conclusions of the Venice Commission on the previous draft Ukrainian Law on Peace Meetings and Decisions of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine in 2001. The State’s right to assemble peacefully, without weapons, provides for a clear definition of the scope of the law. The project therefore includes a list of measures to which the established order does not extend, identifying the rights and responsibilities of organizers and peacemakers, as well as of executive authorities, local authorities, and their authorized representatives. It is the responsibility of the organizers to report in writing to the appropriate authority on the matter, taking into account the time needed to prepare for public order and human security. The project fully sets out the content of the report and provides that the authority has no right to refuse to accept the message. The implementation of the bill will not require additional financial costs from the State Budget. The adoption of this law will create appropriate legal conditions for the realization of the right of citizens to meet peacefully, unarmedly, to hold meetings, meetings, and demonstrations established by article 39. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u73	Thank you. Committee decision, please. Victor Vasilovich Teren is the first deputy head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u74	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The bill, which is under consideration today, addresses the complex issues of the organization, the conduct of the peace process, and regulates the rights and responsibilities of the organizers and participants in the peace process, as well as the executive authorities, the local authorities, their authorized representatives. The bill provides that restrictions on the exercise of the right of citizens to take peaceful action may only be established by the court in the interests of national security and public order. At the same time, however, I would like to point out that a number of criticisms have been expressed during the committee's committee meeting when the bill is being discussed, especially as regards the deadlines for reporting a peaceful meeting. We cannot agree with the term proposed in the bill, such as "the reporting of a peaceful action is necessary at the time necessary for the preparation of the action or in advance". [[quoted literally]] So we don't know how long, how many hours, how many days do we have to report a peace event? So you're interested in the document, the esteemed colleagues, the international experience in the legislative settlement of the rallying and demonstration notice? Thus, in France, the law adopted in 1881, stipulates that it is not necessary to report the holding of peaceful congregations at all. Finland: six days, six hours, excuse me. Six hours before sunset. And it's very interesting: Russia is the deadline for submitting the application from 10 to 15 days. [[the level of democracy]] And so if we're a democratic country, please let's write what's going to be our term. And the last. Our committee came to the conclusions of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, the Committee on Health, and their support for the bill. Our committee discussed the issue at its meeting on June 18 and endorsed the draft Ukrainian law on the organization and conduct of peace.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u75	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u76	Thank you very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u77	It's all you, isn't it? Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? If necessary, sign in. If we don't, we'll make decisions. Please state the names of the national MPs who signed up for the talk. Jaroslav Suhi, microphone. Or Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u78	Dear Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished national deputies, the project proposes to regulate the implementation of the constitutional right of citizens to peaceful meetings by establishing the arrangements for the preparation and conduct of the peace meetings listed in the Constitution, as described in the project by peaceful measures, namely, assemblies, rallyings, marches and demonstrations. One of the most important shortcomings of the project is the lack of a clear regulation of the deadline for submission to executive authorities, local self-government authorities, of a message of peace. Part one of the first article of the seventh draft contains only an abstract statement that such reports occur, taking into account the time needed for the preparation of these organs and internal affairs to ensure public order and the safety of people in carrying out such measures. Without further explanation, it is obvious that the above provision lays the groundwork for the actual nullification of the constitutional requirement for the early notification of the executive authorities and local self - government authorities of a peaceful meeting. After all, the appointed deadline will be determined by the organizers of a peaceful meeting for their own discretion, resulting from purely subjective criteria. In addition, if the project is to be adopted, the organizer will have to provide for notified forms and methods of guaranteeing public order provision, and medical care during the event. Such evaluation standards, as necessary and guaranteed, will not contribute to the realization of the right of citizens to peaceful meetings. The faction of the Party of the Regions proposes to reject the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u79	Vladimir Bondarenko, please. I'd like to have my respectable colleagues sign up. A member of the faction has already made a statement. No, no, there's no committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, distinguished radio and television viewers! I would like to draw attention to the fact that we have a rather serious experience of the actions of authorities and peacemakers. And this bill is generally needed. And I would support the committee’s decision to support it in the first reading, but it must be worked out, and at the same time very seriously. This is the aspect of such action when two parties or two groups of people make an application, virtually at the same time, on a single day, and there is no clear way of dividing the conduct of these actions, which they coincide with at the time and place. Unfortunately, this bill does not regulate this issue, so I will be sure to make proposals that the authorities that actually give consent to such a move will definitely fix these applications at a time up to a minute in order to avoid this competition that always arises on the Christian side when the windmill enters the conflict. Then Pullside appears there somehow in the same place at the same time. This is certainly damaging to public order and the attitude of citizens. And another thing, I would like to point out is that some structures deliberately block the peaceful actions of their political opponents. In particular, during protests against the activities of Chernevski, which led to increased pressure on the citizens of the tariff and so forth, Chernevski himself used hundreds of buses from our urban parks, which we pay, by the way, from his taxes, to fight those who held the rally. In front of the city of Kyiv, the government administration was facing hundreds of buses that were signaling, hindering the holding of the action. Regrettably, there are no sanctions against those who commit such opposition and must be imposed. Therefore, this law should be adopted in the first reading with a finality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u81	Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. As for the proposal made in Vladimir Bondarenko's speech, I want to point out that in article 9, paragraph 6, there is a fixation that if, at the same time at the same time at the same time, two measures are proposed to be carried out, then there is one who has previously applied. But it may be necessary to make sure that there is a fixation so that people are not specifically misled to resist. With regard to the use of property, the possibility of state institutions, this is the law that prohibits it, and we need to regulate the practice of peaceful action. Therefore, honourable colleagues, since the discussion is over, we need to make a decision as a basis for furthering this law, which is essential to the political battalions that are likely to await us. In order for humans to have the right to express their position freely. I am betting on the adoption vote on the basis of the draft law on the order of peace arrangements. [[Registration number 2450]] The committee suggests that it be based on further development and preparation for consideration in the second reading. Please vote. [[11:36:38]] For 228 Decision taken. Microphone, Valery Bondick, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u82	Dear Head, thank you. Dear colleagues, this bill, it was absolutely necessary, you know, five years ago, in 2004, when you were picking up an orange field. And now it's the pressure of democracy. Why? Because, look, she's reporting to the Deputy Minister of Justice, and she's not saying anything about the conclusions of the Venice Commission. Dear Mrs. Natal Bogashev, you have what, eight deputies of the minister of justice? And why don't you tell us how Europe feels about these bills of yours? That's the first one. It's different. You know, there are fundamental foundations to democracy, that is, not to ban any social movement. There's court practice. If there is no peace, please refer to the court. And the administrative code decides that, and court practice has already decided that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u83	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I want to remind you again, more precisely, that there will be a meeting of the Conciliation Council at 12 o’clock. I'd like to start at 12 o'clock, because at 12:30 a.m., we're going to have to continue the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In addition to faction leaders, I invite you to this meeting: the Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Economic Policy, Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, the Head of the Committee on Fuel and Energy Complex, and the Head of the Committee on Budget Affairs. A draft Act amending article 255 of the Code of Administrative Offences is being announced for consideration. [[on the activities of the Judicial Prosecutors Service]] The rapporteur is the first Deputy Head of the State Judicial Administration, Lyhanský Viktor Aleksandrovich. The focal point is the head of the subcommittee, the Committee on the Legislative Protection of Law Enforcement Activities, Moysik Volodymyr Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u84	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! For your consideration, it is proposed to amend article 255 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences. The project proposes to amend part one of article 255 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences by empowering the judicial authorities to draw up reports on administrative offences provided for in article 185 of the Code. With a view to fulfilling their responsibilities properly. I would like to remind you that article 185, with the badge three, provides for liability for contempt of court, which was expressed in a malicious escape from the appearance of a witness, the victim, the defendant, the defendant, the defendant, or the failure of the designated persons and other citizens to obey the order of the presiding officer or in violation of the order during the trial. And so is any action that shows a clear disrespect for the court. In accordance with part four of article 64 of the Code of Administrative Justice, in the absence of a court judge, the Registrar of a judicial hearing performs his duties, that is, it provides for the appointment of such duties both to the Registrar of a judicial session and to the Registrar of a judicial tribunal. The adoption of this bill will facilitate the enforcement by persons in court, established rules, of the order of the presiding judge in court, of the practical implementation of the provisions of effective legislation concerning the activities of the judicial services.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u85	Thank you. Please sit down. Vladimir Romanovich Moysik, committee decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u86	Vladimir Moisik, MP “For Ukraine!” Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, honourable fellow MPs, has made the contents of the bill quite clear by the representative of the State Judicial Administration. According to a valid code on administrative offences, reports of misconduct in the form of contempt of court are made up of the Registrar of the Court, the Coma, and the Registrar of the Court. But even after this legislative rule, the Civil Code, the Code of Administrative Judiciality, and these codes state that a court order, both in the courtrooms and outside the halls, is followed by a court order. Thus, along with the right of both the Registrar of the Court and the Registrar of the Court, the bill suggests that the right to file reports for contempt of court was also exercised by a court order. There are positive conclusions from the Ministry of Justice, there are no comments from the judiciary, and the Committee on Legal Protection suggests that the draft law be adopted on a basis and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u87	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to the conclusion of the Scientific and Experimental Authority, which says that there are no objections to them, but I would like to point out, obviously, the authors of the bill and us, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, that the adoption of such individual minor changes to individual laws, and this project contains such changes, does not contribute to the stability of laws and leads to the unreasonable use of budgetary resources and plenary time in Parliament, which is limited. Clearly, this is a fair complaint about what we should watch, which we propose changes to laws. And it's probably a systematic approach. So this proposal, if you would support it, is now put to the vote to approve it as a basis and as a whole so that you don't waste your time and work on other bills. No warning? I am voting on the adoption of the draft Act amending article 255 of the Code of Administrative Offences concerning the activities of the judicial authorities. [[Registration number 2183]] Please vote first on the basis and then on. [[11:43:34]] For 380 Decision taken. There is a committee proposal to accept it as a law. I mean, in general. Is there no objection? I am betting on this motion for adoption as a whole as a law, the draft Act amending article 255 of the Code of Administrative Offences concerning the activities of the judicial authorities. [[Registration number 2183]] Please vote. [[11:44:12]] For 379 The law is passed. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences in Protection of Economic Competition is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 3575]] The rapporteur is the first deputy head of the Antimonopoly Committee, Kravchenko Yuri Grigorovich. Correspondent is the deputy head of the Committee for the Legislative Security of Stretovich Vladimir Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u88	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The problem that the bill solves is that in the current Code on Administrative Offences, a number of administrative offences in the area of economic competition are formulated on the basis of the old Law on the Limitation of Monopolysm, which became effective in 2002, and is now the Law on the Protection of Economic Competition. The last law provides for a slightly different list of administrative offences, violations of legislation in the field of economic competition. And the existence of such collegiates at the legislative level makes it impossible for individuals to be drawn to administrative responsibility in individual cases. Thus, the bill drafted by the committee provides for administrative responsibility for the following types of infringements: this is to prevent employees of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine from carrying out checks, this is to fail to implement the decision of the committee body, as well as to disrupt the provision of information at the request of the bodies of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine. In addition, amendments to the Antimonopoly Commission Act adopted in 2003 provide for the granting of powers to the Ukrainian Antimonopoly Committee on Administrative Violations of the Protection of Economic Competition. And these powers can only be implemented by making appropriate changes to the Code of Administrative Offences. The proposed amendments to the Code will allow the creation of a proper legal basis for effective implementation of administrative responsibility for infringements of economic competition rules, which will generally prevent appropriate violations. I ask you to support and accept this bill as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u89	Thank you! Have a seat, please. Mr. Vladimir Mikolaiovich Stratovic, Deputy Head of the Committee for Legislative Security.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u90	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers' draft Law amending the Code on Administrative Offences for the Protection of Economic Competition provides for exceptions to the Code of Administrative Offences of Articles 166, 3 and 4 and the addition of the Code by articles 188, 29-31, relating to violations of economic competition legislation. Other amendments to the Code relate to the granting to the Antimonopoly Committee of powers to deal with administrative offences related to violations of economic competition legislation. Having examined the bill, the committee notes that some of its positions require technical legal work, including the need to renumber articles 188 with 29, 30, 24416, which are proposed to supplement the code, since the articles with such numbering in the Code on Administrative Violations already exist. The amendments proposed to paragraph 20, paragraph 1, of article 255, paragraph 1, of the Code should, in fact, be made to paragraph 19. The text of Article 188 of the 29 mark on the establishment of the responsibility to prevent the employees of the anti-monopoly committee, its territorial departments, should be brought into line with the provisions of the Anti-Monopoly Committee Act in the section on the right of the Committee to remove or arrest property. At the same time, the committee determines that the adoption of the bill will allow for the proper level of discipline of officials and employees of the subject matter in the area of legal regulation. The committee therefore considers it necessary to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the bill in the first reading and on a basis. This is also the opinion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. In addition, the bill received the approval of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, as well as the Committee of the Supreme Council on Budget Issues, which noted that the adoption of the bill would have an impact on the income of the State budget by increasing it. When preparing the bill for consideration in the second reading, the committee will process all comments and prepare an agreed edition. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u91	Thank you. Dear colleagues, if there is a need to express your thoughts, I ask you to sign up for Bill 3575. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? No one's signed up. So I'm voting on a proposal by the adoption committee based on draft law 3575 amending the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences for Protection of Economic Competition. Please vote on the basis. [[11:49:42]] For-200 The decision is not supported. The committee's proposal is not supported. I'm going to put the committee that's offering it back on the table first? It's okay, isn't it? Please, Stretovich Volodymir Mikolajovic. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u92	Dear colleagues, the bill has been introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers and has been scrutinized by the committee. The Scientific and Expert Office also supports its adoption and is supported by the Committee on Budget Affairs, indicating that this will inevitably lead to an increase in revenue to a budget that will be made in a legitimate manner. So I ask you to send him for an additional re-reading so that we can hold appropriate consultations, and we understand that he is essential today in order to complete the income portion of the budget. Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u93	I am voting on the proposal of the committee to re-read the draft law amending the Code of Administrative Offences for the Protection of Economic Competition. [[Registration number 3575]] Please vote. [[11:51:03]] For 219 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. The draft law is being announced for consideration. I would like to announce before consideration the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to establish responsibility for anti-competitive concerted action. [[Registration number 3577]] Reporter – Kravchenko Yuri Grigorović, First Deputy Head of the Antimonopoly Committee, co-rapporteur – Vladimir Mikolajovic Stretovic. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u94	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine to establish responsibility for anti-competitive concerted action developed by the Antimonopoly Committee and in accordance with the legislative initiative put forward by the Government for consideration by the Supreme Council. As evidenced by Ukrainian experience, as well as the experience of other countries, significant damage to economic competition, individuals, entrepreneurs make arrangements between competitors to overpriced prices, reduce product delivery volumes, and to avoid competition among themselves in certain geographical areas with regard to individual types of goods or with regard to certain categories of consumers. It is for such dangerous acts of anti-competitive concerted action that they are also referred to in the West as “severe cartels”, the law, and are intended to establish criminal responsibility. Anti-competitive arrangements are usually done orally during informal meetings by owners of enterprises of other people acting on their instructions and not in contracts or any legal documents. It is only after a certain period of time that the infringements themselves are manifest, mainly because of their negative effects in the form of setting unwarranted prices. And so far, the Antimonopoly Committee has not been able to obtain direct evidence of such conspiracies. And we apply the provisions of the Law on the Protection of Economic Competition, which provide for the results of an economic analysis of establishing the facts of such conspiracies. However, proof of a violation on the basis of circumstantial evidence alone does not rule out errors in the application of law. Therefore, the detection and cessation of anti-competitive concerted action requires specific instruments of investigation, such as the use of operational-search measures, such as non-recognition of document identification, intelligence, visual observation, etc. provided for by the Ukrainian Operational Search Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u95	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u96	the need to criminalize the identified types of anticompetitive behaviour is obvious. Please consider this bill in the first reading and accept it as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u97	Thank you. Vladimir Mikolaiovich, deputy chairman of the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u98	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! This bill provides for criminal responsibility for individual types of anticompetitive concerted action. To this end, changes to the current text of article 228 of the Criminal Code are proposed. In particular, it is suggested that anticompetitive concerted action be criminalized with regard to the setting of prices, tariffs, the implementation or purchase of goods, jobs, services, market distribution, restrictions, including the cessation of the production of goods, the implementation or acquisition of goods, jobs, services. It is also proposed to criminalize the agreed competitive inaction of economic operators, which may lead to a lack of acceptance, elimination or restriction of competition. In addition, the relevant amendments are made to Article 112 of the Criminal Procedure Code on the Subordination of Cases, as well as to Article 166-2 of the Code on Administrative Violations. After analysing the project, the committee notes that the virtually lack of a proper legal mechanism for detecting and ending the secret alliances between competitors that are most destructive to market mechanisms in Ukraine is the most unresolved problem today for effective implementation of competition policy. [[cartels]] Therefore, the imposition of anti-competitive concerted action on serious crimes caused by the degree of social danger of this action, as well as the need to apply it to the detection of such operational and search measures and measures provided for in the Operational and Exploration Act, such as the indiscretion and identification of documents or other items that may be evidence of the preparation or commission of such a crime, the receipt of intelligence, visual observation, etc. The main scientific and expert office believes that the bill needs to be returned to the subject for further processing. The committee decided to recommend that the first reading should be adopted and that the second revision should eliminate all inappropriateities. The Committee of the Supreme Council on Economic Policy and Budget Issues feels the same way. The Economic Policy Committee notes that administrative responsibility today is an ineffective means of fighting cartels. In the three months provided for by the Code, administrative violations are virtually impossible to detect and collect appropriate evidence of a cartel conspiracy. With regard to excessive penalties for anticompetitive concerted acts, the committee believes that the minimum amount of fines and sentences is a minimum.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u99	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u100	Article 228 provides for the drafting of the project, fully corresponds to the degree of social danger of the relevant crimes and fully ensures that the preventive function of the responsibility of such offences is exercised. I ask the Supreme Council to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, the committee is proposing to support this bill. Let's support it on the basis, because it's about agricultural workers, and that's it: milk, grain, and so on, when conspiracies cause prices to be extremely low, and people can't get a return on what they're producing. Is there no objection to the vote? I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[establishing responsibility for anti-competitive concerted actions]] [[Registration number 3577]] Please vote. [[11:57:36]] For 232 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we have a recess of up to 12 hours 30 minutes. To the factions, the heads of the committees whose names I have read, please gather in the office of the Chief of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u102	Invite the national deputies to the session room. And as long as the faction leaders are right, I'll inform you about the outcome of the Conciliation Council. We agreed, Your Honor, to propose to the Supreme Council of Ukraine next plenary week to review the Law on State Procurement. But before that, MPs have to get to know each other, and they have to work out tables that are prepared for the second reading, and each faction has to formulate its own vision of the law and its own proposals. With regard to the President's proposals on the need to review the draft Act amending the Constitution, the Conciliation Council proposes to return to this issue in the next plenary week. With regard to proposals from factions regarding the resolution of individual human resources issues, once again, a mutual solution: this week, personnel issues are not proposed for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And the question is, how do you get the members of the High Council of Justice to take an oath? You know that the Supreme Council owed earlier to bring three members of the High Council of Justice to the oath and recently the judiciary, I mean higher education institutions, elected three members of the High Council of Justice. My proposal was to lead everyone to an oath, but faction leaders offered to consult on that. on this point, to reconcile the problem. So we still have time, although the limit is extremely short. We've just agreed that we're going to now consider the draft Law on Change to the State Budget, where it's about financing the purchase of insulins, it's also about a number of other urgent needs, it's a draft of Law 4503. Are we ready to look at it? Do you have Oleg Lazko? A draft Act amending the State budget and certain other legislative acts is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 4503]] We agreed that after the report, the question would be put to the vote, so that we could take it as a basis and generally without discussion, since there was nothing to discuss here, we should look for money.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u103	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, honored ones! The Committee on Budget Issues considered a bill amending the 2009 Act on the State Budget of Ukraine and some other laws submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on 19 May with registration number 4503. The bill envisages addressing the following issues: first, improving the provision of insulin to patients with diabetes, providing for an additional grant to local budgets of 160 million dollars, the implementation of day-to-day water supply measures in the city of Lviv, providing for a subsidy of 105 million dollars, the completion of repair and restoration work in 2009, and the creation of a museum exhibition of the Chevchenkov National Reserve in the city of Canev – 22.5 million dollars. The source of such additional expenses in the amount of 287.5 million dollars the bill provides for an increase in the excise collection plan for the increase in beer and wine rates. In particular, this increase is proposed: for beer — up to 54 copies per litre, for wines natural — up to 25 copies per litre, for wines natural with added alcohol and strong with a large share of ethyl alcohol of not more than 20 percent — up to 40 copies per litre, for wines natural with added alcohol and strong with a large share of ethyl alcohol of more than 20 percent, at bets of 34 bracelets per litre of alcohol. Thus, the bill is balanced with regard to the State Budget indicators. According to the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council, the bill can be adopted on the basis of the comments made. During the discussion of the draft budget bill, the Committee supported the proposal of individual national MPs to remove the rule from the bill on raising the excise duty rate on wine. Given the importance of the bill, the Committee on Budget Affairs adopted a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u104	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u105	I approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of draft Law number 4503 as a basis and generally as a law and taking into account such changes. Part two of the first bill excludes the rule on raising the excise duty rate on wines of natural grapes. In this regard, reduce by five million dollars the excise collection of goods and subsidies produced in Ukraine to the city’s budget of Lviv to implement the day-to-day security arrangements and the water supply of the city. Separately for the stenographer. In the event of the adoption of this bill to ensure a balance between the summary figures of the State budget and the alignment of the bill with the latest edition of the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2009, taking into account the adopted 21 May Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2009 on improving the financial security of persons with disabilities, it is necessary to submit a law for the signing by the Head of the Supreme Council of the Committee on Budget Issues, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council, to introduce editorial and technical legal clarifications to the text of the Act and Appendices, first of all, in detailing the summary figures of revenue and expenditure of the State budget. The proposal is also made to further allocate from the general fund to the organizational and other activities of the Supreme Council 97 million dollars for the increase in revenues from excess of the National Bank expenditure, the annual plan of which has already been revised, by making appropriate changes to articles 1, 4 and 1, 3 of the State Budget Act of Ukraine for 2009. Thank you for your attention. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u106	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have agreed that we will not discuss this decision for your consideration. With motive? Please sign up, five minutes. Dear colleagues, we agreed not to. [[From the hall. (]] [[Unheard]] )
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u107	They're insisting. So I can, my colleagues insist. Five minutes, please, with motive. Please put the names of the national MPs on the board. Viennese.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u108	Vladimir Vyzaniński, “Our Ukraine”, is a parliamentary group “For Ukraine”. I would like us to read more carefully the findings of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration and consider only some aspects of our social life in relation to the economic and financial crisis. At that time, perhaps it would be entirely fair not to bother our entrepreneurs as much as possible under these difficult economic, financial conditions to support them and to allow them to plan their work for a year. Moreover, valid legislation, and it applies to the taxation system, provides that any changes to taxation may not be introduced during the budget year. [[Article 7]] So it would be entirely fair not to touch today's component of our entrepreneurs and entire sectors in Ukraine, instead of saying that when the government proposed the 2009 budget did not consider such important things as insulin, it would be possible to find reserves in the budget for today's year and switch.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u109	Thank you. Mikola Petrovich Kruglov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u110	Vladimir Mikhailovich! I would like to find out to the drafters. We accept it considering that in this bill we exclude paragraph two and chapter two. Then it will be clear that we exclude the wines of natural grapes. I'd like that to sound like a stenogram: either yes or no.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u111	I'll ask you when we exchange thoughts, Oleg Lazko, then. Okay? It's a deal. Vladimir Yavorowski, please. At the end of the day, when they'll express their thoughts.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u112	I give the word to John Krilenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u113	Dear colleagues! I want to thank the Head of the Supreme Council, who has just assembled the faction leaders and we have come to an understanding of this law. In fact, there is an extremely resonant problem in society today to save people who suffer from diabetes. These are hundreds of thousands of our countrymen. Of course, today any extra budget expenditure -- we need to look for a source. I thank the faction of the Committee on Budgets, who, meeting unanimously last night, sought out sources that minimize today’s impact on entrepreneurial activities, minimize the negative impact. But the problem in the present city, which has risen tens of times in this room, let alone outside the hall, is really saving people who are sick, who are extremely ill, people need help. Colleagues, we agreed, faction leaders, without discussion, we vote in favour of this bill to solve this painful problem, let's not get involved in the discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u114	National MP Gordienko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u115	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. I'd like to draw the attention of all the diabetics and to your attention, you see today the representatives of the Yulia Tymoshenko Block are very concerned about you to save your life. I would like to remind you that, when the 2009 State Budget was approved, I and my colleague, Yuri Haydajev, were paying attention to the government, praying and urging, and pointing out the sources of these expenses. But then cynically, in the person of Vice-Prime Minister Turkinov, it was denied, today it is referred to as the heroic efforts of our government. I don't want any speculation on this subject, it's people's misery.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u116	Vladimir Romanovich Moysik, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u117	Moses, “For Ukraine! ” Please pass the word to a colleague of Carpuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u118	Carpupuk's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u119	Vladimir Karpuk, MP “For Ukraine!” As a doctor, of course, I will vote for this, my hand will not raise to vote, but I support the opinion of my colleague Gordienko, who spoke about the situation in the budgeting process. Extra subsidies to local budgets were 160 million, 150 million were, 300 million, but these costs, we've studied this situation, are not being used rationally. Because it's a thousand in Ukraine, more than a thousand purchases of insulins at the local level, and the difference in the purchase of insulins by one vial is quite high, and among other regions in 2007 the purchases amounted to 40 dollars. And that's why these tax changes are being made here for such a noble purpose, and those changes in the excise congregation that they've long wanted to make are a long time ago.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u120	Alexander Mikolaiovich Stoyan, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u121	Please pass the word to Jaroslav Sukh.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u122	Jaroslav Suhi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u123	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! What did I ask for from motive? You know, it doesn't feel like someone's here against the sick, it's someone for the sick and stuff. I'm asking the drafters to give me an answer: why build a bridge crossing in Zaporozhye, where. What is the strategic value of 5 million dollars allocated and 105 million dollars allocated for Lviv’s water supply? What's the point? Well, you're covered in insulin, well, that's 22 million Chevchenka Museum. What's the matter? Why are no funds allocated for strategic objects, for bridge crossings in Zaporozhye, in the city of Mikolayev? If the budget is overrun. And in Kane, bridges need to be built, if the budget is overrun, please tell me where the money is not being made from the government medical programs.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u124	Oleg Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u125	Respectable. Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The money from the budget is paid to the budget and to the budget. That's the answer to the question where this money is going. For the Pension Fund to work so that the miners at least on the government mines would receive wages because private people privatized with miners for five months would not pay, and they would rally to the Cabinet. I'd like to answer Mr. Kruglov's question for the transcript. According to the Supreme Council Committee, the section on wines of natural grapes is removed from the budget. Note this submission. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, please put the bill to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u126	Last, Your Honor, calm down. Jojik, yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u127	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People’s Party. Dear colleagues! I would like to point out that any agreement at the level of the Conciliation Council cannot violate the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. Thus, according to the Rules of Procedure, it is stipulated that the bill as a basis and as a whole can only be accepted for the absence of objections from members present at the meeting. So I'm expressing my substantive objections to the possibility of being accepted as a basis and in the whole of this bill. I'm willing to argue both, my position on this issue from the Supreme Council rostrum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u128	Thank you. Dear colleagues! In order to take down all the colossals, I request your attention. I'm going to put the Conciliation Council to a vote so that we can look at the project as a whole. But I want to tell you, if people's health and beer and the structures to be provided are on the scales, then your argument, I don't think, will outweigh the needs of the people. So, dear fellows, may I have your attention? I'm not talking for you, are you? I know what I'm talking about, what it sounded like on the Conciliation Council. So, your honors, I'd like your attention. I will now put to the vote that the Supreme Council of Ukraine decide to consider this bill as a basis and as a whole. [[Registration number 4503]] Please vote, please support. [[12:51:08]] For the 320. Decision taken. I now put to the vote the proposal for adoption as a basis and as a whole the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2009 and some other laws of Ukraine, taking into account the additions and clarifications made by the committee and appointed by the deputy head of the committee, Oleg Lazko. [[Registration number 4503]] Please vote. Well, he told you! Please vote. Stop voting. Please, what else do you need? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u129	. wine, then we have to understand that we're removing paragraph two and chapter two, then it's the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u130	Please, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u131	Oleg Lazko. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, I call your attention once again to the decision of the committee, which you are all given, on the subject of the budget. And it was in line with the committee's decision that we remove natural wines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u132	What's this about, Volodymyr Mikhailovich? The committee's decision, I put it to a vote. I am voting on the adoption as a basis and as a whole on the draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2009 and some other laws of Ukraine, taking into account the clarifications adopted by the Committee and which have been presented in reports from the Committee. [[Registration number 4503]] Please vote. [[12:53:08]] For-183 The decision is not taken. Please align your position. Oleg Lazko. One minute!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u133	Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, there is a next proposal, because our colleagues are so concerned about wine, there is a proposal to now adopt the law as a basis in the first reading, to predict, no, we only accepted it to consider it. To accept it in the first reading, to agree with the budget committee by tomorrow morning, and tomorrow we have the suggestions indicated, the remarks and tomorrow morning, and we will vote on it as a whole. I think it's a normal offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u134	There's no warning we're going to take as a basis? Please, Mikola Petrovich Kruglov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u135	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I was at a convention last Friday that was attended by gardeners, gardeners, and winegrowers. I read to you: “To address Prime Minister Timoshenko of Ukraine to the head of the Supreme Council of Lithuania, the national deputies of Ukraine, MinAPC, not to raise the rates of excise duty on all natural products produced. Because we're the first ones, we're driving our producers into the corner compared to imports, and we're comparing the wine excises, basically, to vodka. What are we doing? It takes two weeks to spill vodka, and it takes five years to make a vine. This is the appeal of all the farmers. What are we doing?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u136	Just a minute. Oleg Lazko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u137	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, we have just consulted with the Ministry of Finance. They agree with the proposal of the national deputy Kruglov to remove the wines of the grapes in the paper he speaks of are natural. And we suggest that the law be passed in general, taking into account this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u138	Is that a position? [[B in m in s a l in]] Honorable fellow workers, do they make such an offer or not? Just a minute. Just a minute. Let us now vote on the decision not to pay taxes in the country at all. I think all 100 percent will vote. There will be 400 votes. So I'm asking you, Oleg Lazko, the Ministry of Finance, to rephrase your proposals, and then, Mikola Petrovich, whether you're making this proposal. Is that how it works? One minute, give me a chance to make a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u139	Dear Mikolo Petrovich, the Ministry of Finance on behalf of the government, which is the author of the bill, agrees with your proposal to remove from the bill the section on increasing excise duties on wines natural. All of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u140	The government. It's from the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u141	Oleg Lazko correctly sounded the position with which the Ministry of Finance and Government agreed.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u142	Mikola Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u143	Under the stenogram. Under the stenogram: we disable second and second. And that's how all the questions are removed.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u144	Well, please tell me again. Well. Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u145	Oleg Lazko. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Well, as Mikola Petrovich says, "let's delete paragraph two and paragraph two." Which one of you has seen in your eyes what point is this, which paragraph? We're talking. Mikola Petrovich asks questions on behalf of manufacturers about how to remove the issue of natural wines. We're filming this question, but it's not about nerds to talk about when people are digested, and it's not about natural hair under wine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u146	I didn't get it, Mikola Petrovich, I asked you to do it. Yes, please raise your hand first, maybe you will. Well, please, come on in.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u147	Dear colleagues, I wanted to tell you what the game is. We had before that two bills that put MPs on raising excise duty on wine grapes and beer. According to one and the other bills on wine excises, we could make 100 million dollars on beer excises in the first case -- 780 million, in the second case -- one and a half million and a half billion. In these cases, I threw it away. Ministry, I have all these documents, the Ministry of Finance has rejected these bills. Now they're offering us an offer that, at the end of the year, at the end of the year, for the remaining three months, we need to get 282 million excises on wine. Please tell me, first of all, over the past year, we have collected 346 million excise duties on wine. First of all, it's going to be a lie, because we're not going to raise that kind of money. Then there will be no medication, let's be honest about these things. Today, there is an open lobbying of vodka compared to wine, because the struggle for our man’s stomach — either wine to drink, or vodka to drink. So let's not play today, we want to go down.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u148	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u149	The last one for today. We understand that today we have more than 50 percent of the wine that is imported: Moldova and Georgia. What are we doing? We're chasing our own.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u150	Thank you. Please calm down, sit down. This is a normal working environment, but let's listen to the Ministry of Finance's position again before making a decision. Can I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u151	In general, it would be right to leave the distribution of wine tax up to 20 degrees and over 20 degrees, but given the importance of the adoption of the law, we agree to withdraw the second paragraph as proposed by the People's Deputy Kruglov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u152	Dear colleagues, the Ministry of Finance is proposing that the second item be deleted. There's no warning. The committee agrees? Enough, I know what this is about. Well, please, jojik, come on, mike, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u153	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, since Mr. Kruglov has been given the floor, and after his argument has been removed part of the bill's paragraphs, I ask that you give me the floor to base your position on the possible consequences for the relevant economic sector of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u154	Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u155	Dear colleagues, the beer industry in Ukraine had recently been budgeting. Yes, in 2007, an estimated 2.5 billion dollars, including an excise collection of 890 million dollars, were added to the budgets of all levels. But since June 2008, there has been stagnation in the field of raw materials, energy, and inflation in society. The absence of credit and multimillion - dollar laundering of exchange-rate differences in foreign exchange payments on investment projects have resulted in business losses, delayed investment projects, and hundreds of millions of losses to major industry producers in the past year. As a result of the first quarter of 2009, the decline is almost 20 percent. The decline in beer production has already affected farmers growing barley, producing sweets, and others. About 20 adjacent businesses involved in the chain from the field to the consumer. In a situation where small and small enterprises - Winnicky, Zaporziski, Kyivsky No1, Kirovogradski, Kremenchuckski, Sumski, Odeski, Cherkasski pivoszadzavodski - have disappeared from the geographical map of the beer industry recently. In 2008, the production of Melitopolski, Izumski, Nižinski, Luganski, “Empire C” was stopped in the context of the global financial crisis – “Belger”, “New Bavaria”, “Romanian Pivoszavod” and “Kyivia’s sweet extracts plant. The Cabinet of Ministers has proposed an increase of 74 percent in excise duty per beer, and it is anticipated that there will be a serious increase in income.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u156	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u157	However, as a result of this bill, not only will the planned revenue of the budget not be received, but it will result in a reduction in VAT revenues, and the income tax will be reduced in general. From the point of view of the producers, it is the passing of such a bill, which envisions an unprecedented 74 percent increase in taxes and economic crime.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u158	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u159	That's why I'm here.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u160	Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u161	I urge the MPs not to vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u162	Thank you. Before the final decision is now taken, please let the committee's vice-chairman, Oleg Lšjako. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u163	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, since we have found here a compromise with the aim of protecting the interests of the winegrowers, yes, and getting rid of them. Who? Most of them in the hall. If you were to vote, you'd be the one you'd be looking for. You don't vote. And in order to protect the interests of the winegrowers, the point that predicts an increase in excise duties on beer is proposed to support the standard for the introduction of excise duty on beer instead of 54 copies, as in the bill, in one liter, 60 copies per liter. This is going to be equal to even less inflation than it is. And that's how we compensate for the loss of the budget and accept it. Please support the bill as a whole. Thank you. Taking into account the changes made.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u164	Dear colleagues, I am voting in accordance with the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt as a basis and as a whole the draft Act amending the Ukrainian National Budget Act 2009 and some other laws of Ukraine, taking into account the amendments agreed upon and declared in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in the session hall. [[Registration number 4503]] Please vote. [[13:04:51]] For 331 The law is passed. A draft law amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine, registration number 1281, is being announced for consideration. [[on combating corruption and crime in the field of service]] Reporter – Olijnik Svetoslav, co-rapporteur – head of the committee's subcommittee on the law enforcement of Musik Volodymyr Romanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u165	Dear colleagues, Bill 1281 is proposed to you. The idea of the bill is to establish a more effective fight against official crimes. It is with this category of crimes that refer to so - called, corrupt crimes. Today, there is a monopoly in existing legislation on one investigative branch, which is the prosecutor’s office’s office. This monopoly leads in practice to the fact that we constantly have different opinions from the perspective of law enforcement in the fight against corruption. For example, the police say: “We have discovered, transferred to the prosecutor’s office, and the prosecutor’s office does not investigate.” The bill's proposal is to establish equality of citizens before the law and to provide alternative follow-up to all the investigating bodies. As it now exists in crimes against property, theft, and theft of foreign property, against the laundering of the dirty. That is, the mechanism that set up the official crime may be investigated and responsible for its activities. This is fully in line with the principles of equality of citizens before laws. And another suggestion in this bill is to remove restrictions on local council members who are also, for some reason, special subjects defined only as subordinates to the prosecutor's office. In other words, in the fight against corruption and official crime, provide an alternative to law enforcement. According to his credentials from the beginning, from the discovery of the crime, to the completion of the investigation, to his referral to the court. This will create, I think, a normal healthy competition in the work of law enforcement agencies and remove the imbalance that exists today through the monopoly on prosecution. Please support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u166	Report completed. Moisik Volodymyr Romanovich is the head of the committee's subcommittee on law enforcement. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u167	Vladimir Moisik, “For Ukraine” MP. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The bill is considered by a committee on law enforcement and is recommended for support on the basis and in general. But I must point out to you that this is a patchup of the old Criminal Procedure Code to meet the requirements of the Constitution for depriving the prosecution's organs of investigative functions. And in this room, day after day, we're making changes to one article on subordination, to the other, to the third. Today, the author of the bill rightly asks that crimes be investigated by an authority that has an investigative apparatus and who has committed the crime and committed the crime. As of today, the Office of the Procurator's Office's exclusive jurisdiction refers to the investigation of cases, of persons who hold a particularly responsible position, and of persons who are assigned to the first and third categories of public official's office. So the last author of the law proposes that this be an alternative to the same, not to the undersignment of the prosecutor's office. And speaking to you with a closing word, I ask you and especially you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, a new one registered. Or a draft of the new Criminal Procedure Code. Another one worked in the President's office. You, colleagues, did not support the establishment of a temporary special commission for the work of the KPC, and for the purposes of knowing the code you gave half to our committee, half to the Justice Committee. No committee is taken and no other committee is taken. So let's either give it to the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, or let's go back to the subject of the knowledge of the Ukrainian Code of Criminal Procedure. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u168	Thank you. Dear colleagues, if there is a need to discuss a bill, please sign in. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? People's MP Prokopchuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u169	Dear colleagues! Yuri Prokopchuk, Block of Timoshenko, Equinox. Indeed, this proposal, the innovation proposed by the Oliynik deputy, is the basis for simplifying the very procedure of criminal responsibility and especially of officials. So I propose that, from the economics of time, as they say, it takes a long time not to delay, to accept both on the basis and in general this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u170	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u171	Thank you. I absolutely don't share the cheery moods that this rule seems to simplify the procedure. You just have to take into account what is an alternative and what is a healthy competition of law enforcement agencies. We've already seen such a healthy competition between law enforcement agencies. Some sat in the prosecutor’s office, others kicked the door with their boots, and the third one came out of the deputies ’ mouth right in the prosecutor’s office. But wait, or the country will be okay, or there will be a healthy alternative to some healthy competition. Which one? In the end, efficiency will increase, and how will the interest of a simple person be protected in this case, and how can corruption be combated if the prosecution is the prosecution, then the IMF's, then the BSB's? And who will ultimately have the crucial importance of bringing these documents to trial? For example, the wrongdoing of a corrupt case may even be called administrative responsibility. On the right was the head of the committee, Vladimir Romanovich Moysik: either we're introducing the Criminal Procedure Code into the Hall, or we're working on it, or we're working on it, or we're working on pieces, chaotic, sporadic bills that don't do Ukraine any good, and they don't give us any legal guidance. He needs to be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u172	Dear colleagues! The bill is closed. The committee's proposal is to take it as a basis and as a whole. So first, I'm going to put to the vote the adoption of the draft Act amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine for adoption as a basis. [[Combating corruption and crime in the field of service]] I'd like to make a statement. [[13:12:34]] For-153 The decision is not taken. I'll bet you a vote on re-reading. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:12:55]] For-154 The decision is not taken. A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on strengthening the responsibility for corruption, imposing restrictions on the position of State authorities and local self-government of persons convicted of bribery is under consideration. The rapporteur is a member of the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption of Novikov Oleg Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u173	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! In accordance with article 53 of the Constitution of Ukraine, I have prepared and introduced a draft law on the amendment of certain Ukrainian legislative acts to increase responsibility for corruption. The establishment of restrictions on the position of State authorities and local self - government of persons convicted of bribery. The bill proposed to amend the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act to impose additional penalties for acts of corruption in the form of deprivation of the right to hold positions in public authorities, in local self-government bodies for a period of between one and three years. The Ukrainian Act on State Service and the Ukrainian Law on Service in Local Self-Government. [[concerning the establishment of restrictions on the election and appointment of public service persons convicted of bribery]] After considering the bill, the Main Committee, the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption, supported it and invited the Supreme Council of Ukraine to accept it as a basis for consideration in the first reading. To date, however, a committee to combat corruption and organized crime for second reading has prepared a package of anticorruption bills that already take into account my proposals. [[Registration 0875, 76 and 77]] That is why I am revoking this bill and asking the Ukrainian National Deputies to vote in favour of its rejection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u174	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move forward this way, I'll put a vote on acceptance as a basis, if the Supreme Council does not support it, it will be regarded as rejected and our colleague's request will be granted. I am voting on the basis of the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts to increase responsibility for acts of corruption, to impose restrictions on the position of state authorities and the local self-government of persons convicted of bribery. Please identify yourself. [[13:15:59]] For 178. The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected, as was proposed by a colleague of Novikov. Dear colleagues, we now have to consider three bills of a relative nature, namely draft laws. [[2478, 1390, 2337]] With regard to the bill, National MP Velizhanski wrote a letter as the author of the draft law not to consider today in connection with the need to remove certain disagreements and to finalize the bill, as he wrote in his letter. [[2478]] So we can look at bills with registration numbers 1390 and 2337, and I'm announcing them for review. Reporter – Ukrainian national deputy Samylenko Yuri Pavlovich, report immediately on two drafts. The focal point will be the head of the Committee’s Subcommittee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons, Kulczycki Mikola Georgievicz. And we will vote separately on each bill. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u175	Dear colleagues! On 7 November 2007, the Cabinet of Ukraine adopted Decree 1294 on the streamlining of the terms and conditions for the maintenance of military, military and command personnel. Under article 63 of the Retirement Insurance Act, persons dismissed from military service and some others who establish that all persons appointed to the pension law are recalculated for at least one of the types of cash content of the relevant categories of military personnel. The pension fund is required to recalculate previously assigned pensions for military pensioners. At the same time, the majority of ex-military personnel received pensions. However, for certain categories of pensioners of the Ukrainian Security Service, intelligence agencies and other agencies covered by paragraph 5 of the said Cabinet Order, the recalculation of pensions could not lead to an increase but a reduction in their size. This is due to the fact that the allowances established by this paragraph, unlike other additional types of cash, are not of a permanent nature and are personal. The right of appointment is granted to the heads of the relevant public authorities, who, even if they wish, will no longer be able to grant allowances to former colleagues who have retired. On 13 February 2008, the Cabinet of Ministers adopted Decree No. 45 approving the calculation of the pension, which clearly regulated the recalculation by removing the earlier observation. Paragraph 4 of the Recalculation Procedure states, inter alia, that if the recalculation results in a reduction of the pension, the pension is paid at an earlier rate. This is fully in line with the bill I have proposed, which was submitted on 21 January, before the above-mentioned Cabinet of Ministers Decision. However, the adoption of the Government's Decree does not remove the need for legislative certainty that pensions for these categories of citizens will not be reduced upon recosting. Please. The Committees of the Supreme Council on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons and on National Security and Defence supported the adoption of the bill as a basis. I beg your pardon.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u176	So you reported two bills? Let's do the other one right away. Dear colleagues! And immediately after the second draft, I ask for a report.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u177	A bill is proposed to your attention. The bill provides for two types of amendments. [[2337]] First of all, it invites the participants to return a 10 per cent pension allowance to the first category liquidators and a 5 per cent allowance to the second and third categories liquidators. This allowance was unjustly abolished in 2006, not at the initiative of the people's deputies, but at the insistence of the President of Ukraine, which violates the rights of the Chernobyl people and reduces their social security. The proposal is also supported by public organizations bringing together citizens to deal with the consequences of the Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant and supported by the Committee of the Supreme Council on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and Disaster Management at the Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant. According to data from the Pension Fund of Ukraine, the number of first-class liquidators from military pensioners to date is approximately twelve thousand, the second-to-the-fifteen-and-third-category liquidators of some eleven thousand. The reimbursement of these allowances will cost the budget some 5 million 620,000 dollars per month, which is projected to be made from the State budget. The second part of the bill is the problem of strengthening social security for members of the families of deceased or missing military personnel by increasing the allowance for the parents of the deceased or missing military personnel, which, from 1 January to 40 per cent, was planned to increase the amount of the basic pension due to the loss of the breadwinner from 25 per cent to 40 per cent. According to the organization Solidat Mothers, there are about 3,000 families in Ukraine. I can say that all committees on pensioners, veterans and persons with disabilities, national security, environmental policy support the adoption of the bill, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior also supports, including the Ministry of the Interior.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u178	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u179	I'm done.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u180	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u181	There are comments from the Ministry of Finance that do not fully support the bill, which is the basis for the sources of the income part of the budget. I am. This is where it's planned. The bill will enter into force on 1 January 2010 and should be taken into account in the 2010 budget resolution. I beg your pardon.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u182	Thank you, Yuri Pavlovich. Have a seat, please. Mikola Georgievich Kulczynski is the head of the Committee's Subcommittee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u183	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! As far as you're concerned about excise duties and taxes, no one listens to anything, let's listen a little bit. The Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons reviewed the draft Law on Amendments to Article 63 of the Ukrainian Law on Pension Insurance for Persons Released from Military Service and Some Other Persons, submitted by the National Deputy Samoilenko, who reported to you and recommended that the Committee accept it as a basis. [[Registration number 1390]] The bill proposes to supplement the provisions of the Recalculation of Pensions Act with respect to the retention of pensions for persons released from military service in a previously established manner in cases where, following the recalculation of changes in the financial provision of the relevant categories of military personnel, the amount of pensions decreases, which is a legislative guarantee against lowering the level of pension insurance. At the same time, the legislative initiative provided for in paragraph 3 of the final provisions of the draft law on the granting of a mandate by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine within three months from the date of entry into force of this law, cannot be supported. For the reasons that the said provision duplicates the valid norm of part 3 of article 63 of the Ukrainian Law on the Retirement of Persons Released from Military Service and Some Other Persons. The main scientific and expert office also proposes to take the basis for the comments it has made. For me, if the author of the bill had removed paragraph 3 of the Final Order, that law could have been voted on as a whole. Because there is no third point, no point. It is written in legislation. So, please, back up. Now it's the second law. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'll report to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u184	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u185	As for the second law, not to read for long. The bill was considered by the committee and the committee recommends that it be accepted as a basis. The bill proposes to renew the additional increase in retirement pensions for seniors in the first, second and third categories, respectively, by the first category and second category, by five in accordance with the sums of the financial security that was removed when the new Ukrainian Law on the Pension Insurance of Persons Released from Military Service and Some Other Persons became effective. In 2006 And to increase the size of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans to guarantee their social protection, a pension for parents whose children were killed during the term of military service. In doing so, it should be noted that the project needs some work. What's going on? It's about some kind of, maybe it's more of an ethical standard, it's about adding 40 percent to a parent's pension from a living minimum, and it's about a wife or a husband 25. The committee proposes that both categories be 25. Although the author’s calculations are fairly small, the money is very small. Well, that's what the committee's saying to both parents and your wife or your husband, because I'm going to leave you with 25 percent of the pension or social security allowance or money. So I also suggest that if the author agrees to an editorial on the committee, it would be possible to vote on it as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u186	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u187	The author agrees with the committee. And I'm asking you to vote for the basis as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u188	And the first and the second?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u189	And the first and the second.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u190	Okay. Ladies and gentlemen, please sit down. Are there no speakers? Who insists on the performance? No, it's not. Then let me put the committee's proposal to the vote. And when the author agrees to consider the committee's proposals, I'll put the vote first. When it's supported and there's no warning, I'll put it to a final vote. Therefore, taking into account the committee's proposals, I am voting on the basis of the draft Act amending article 63 of the Ukrainian Law on the Pension Insurance of Persons Released from Military Service and Some Other Persons. [[on Guarantees]] [[Registration number 1390]] Please vote. [[13:27:40]] For 333 Decision taken. If there is no objection, consider the suggestions. Ivan Kirilenko, please. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u191	Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! We made a decision by agreeing with the government, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Social Policy and Labour. We support in the first reading, the second bill we ask for re-reading. What's the problem? Any budget expenditure, we support, these are really very serious social categories that we've just voted for, but any budget expenditure needs to immediately be an appropriate article that allows even these 5 or 10 million, or 15 million, to be filled with each piece of gold. Therefore, during these days or weeks before our second reading or rereading, we are certainly searching for sources to fill the appropriate part of the budget so that we can. Or the pension fund, so we can fund these exact expenses. And once again, let me stress, we need to carefully calculate everything where we increase the spending or the budget or the pension fund. That's the only reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u192	Dear colleagues, perhaps we should go to such a compromising option. To now vote on the commission of a committee that would be working and for the next plenary week, it brought 1390 into final consideration. No objections? Just a minute. Mikola Kulczynski, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u193	Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, said that the bill has been in effect since 1 January 2020. So when you make a budget, we're going to tell you what sources it's going to be filled with. But if Sanchenko hadn't turned down the law that we were supposed to consider yesterday, we might not have had the right to ask today, because that law required the financial justification of any bill that touched on the changes to pension legislation. But there's nothing holding us back right now. Since January 1st, it goes into effect, we can accept it as a whole, and by forming a budget, we can take into account all of these costs, which make up the two bills of 70 million dollars, or less.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u194	Matwichuk, please, Vladimir Makarovich, Ministry of Finance, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u195	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, honourable members of the people, we still ask for the bill to be considered only in the first reading, because there are standards that can lead to the recalculation of pensions in the past periods. This can lead to additional significant costs. Let's actually look at it in the first reading and then work on the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u196	Dear colleagues, let's do this, as I suggested, because now, if we put him to the vote as a whole, there won't be any votes, you understand. This may be the case, so let's now put a proposal to the vote – to entrust the committee to work on it for the next plenary week, by aligning these financial positions with the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, so that the entry into force of January 1st, 2010. I'll put it to a vote. Let's vote for the next plenary week, because otherwise it won't be considered again. I ask you to vote in favour of this proposal, in the second reading, to submit to the next plenary week Bill 1390. [[13:31:18]] For 307 Decision taken. Thank you. Now Bill 2337. The committee's offering him a foundation, isn't it? Please. Let's vote it as a base, and then we'll figure it out. That's just the basis. I am voting on the adoption of the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislation on pension insurance for persons released from military service and some others on a basis. [[Registration number 2337]] [[13:32:08]] For 197 The decision is not taken. Then the proposal can be one, for the first time again. Is there no objection? So I'm putting this motion to a vote, namely, to re-read the draft Law amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on pension insurance for persons released from military service and some others for adoption as a basis. [[Registration number 2337]] Please vote. [[13:32:50]] For 344 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we now have a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, guaranteeing their social protection. [[on persons who were appointed or voluntarily joined the ranks of the Soviet Army and the Navy during military appeals in 1941-1945]] We needed to put this in the agenda and look into it. At the same time, a national MP. Is he going to report? That's why I'm going to put a vote on the inclusion in the agenda of the bill, namely the amendment of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, the Guarantee of Their Social Protection. [[Registration number 4080]] [[on persons who were appointed or voluntarily joined the ranks of the Soviet Army and the Navy during military appeals in 1941-1945]] Please vote. [[13:34:02]] For 310 Questions are included in the agenda. Reporter - Unguryan Pavel Jakimović, co-rapporteur. Who will be from the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons? Yeah. Please, the rapporteurs are already preparing for the 15 - hour parliamentary hearings. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u197	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished national MPs, I present the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, guaranteeing their social protection. [[concerning persons who were appointed or voluntarily joined the ranks of the army and the fleet in 41-45 years]] In the face of the global financial economic crisis, the social crisis is the worst in Ukraine. There are many who have survived the horrors of the Great Homeland War for 41 to 45 years. The fact remains, but with each year the number of persons who participated in this Great Homeland War is shrinking, as is the reduction in the number of persons who are included in the category of people with disabilities of war. The government is doing everything possible to make life easier and better for these people. However, it is these individuals who need an enhanced social protection regime for today. It should be borne in mind that nearly a month ago we celebrated the 64th anniversary of the great victory and should pay tribute to these people. Therefore, one of the main tasks of this law is to invite those who are underage — the sons of regiments, the sons of marine fleets, the young guerrillas, the underlings and others — to participate in the free struggle of the Ukrainian people. In the event of disability as a result of a general illness, the status of a war invalid with adequate social security and protection. To date, the above - mentioned persons are only members of the fighting group. The law is supported by the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine. For the time being, the Ministry is counting these people. Sadly, there are very few of them left. And I think for the second reading we're going to have the right financial justification, and the second reading we're going to have the right financial justification, and the second reading we're going to have the c.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u198	Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u199	In the first reading, I think it can be voted on as a basis, and for the second reading it will be worked out. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u200	Thank you. Dear colleagues! The committee's decisions are necessary. Please turn on Valery Suškević's microphone. One minute! Suškević will now perform, and then you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u201	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Your Honor Vladimir Mikhailovich! The committee at its meeting decided to support the bill in its first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u202	Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u203	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues! The reporter made the situation quite clear today. Meeting the voters, by the way, I recently had the same problem in meeting with the voters of the city of Mikolayeva when I was approached by a fighter. Participant of the fighting, he's got the license of a participant in the fighting, but he was. was not a participant, as it were, did not take part directly in the fighting, but a participant in the fighting, for by law it was given to him when he was called. He volunteered at age 43, if I'm not mistaken, in the year 44 before the Soviet Army, the Red Army. And so, on the one hand, the law is now in force. On the one hand, the current law says that participants in combat can have such rights, and on the other hand, local socialization authorities are talking about that, yes, you are a member of the fighting, but you are not a real participant in combat, you have a certificate of a participant in combat, but you are on the front, so to speak, in combat, you did not sit in the trench. I think it's going to be absolutely fair, and the more, I think, these are the ones that are left that have become volunteers, gone to the front. I suggest, please, please, let's not stretch, nothing to refer to second reading. Let's take it right away. It's going to be a penny literally, literally a penny. These people can already be counted today, as they say, by name, these are units. So I'm going to propose, once again, let's take this as a whole as a law, and to tens or two hundred people, we're going to make some kind of support and a gift. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u204	Who else insists on the discussion? Karpuk, national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u205	Vladimir Karpuk, MP group “For Ukraine!” Ladies and gentlemen, this is a very important law. And I want to thank my colleague, Paul Ungurian, for this initiative. After all, this is the title of the 27 - year - old birth certificate, virtually from the western regions of Ukraine, as the Soviet Army progressed, a hundred percent of the 27 - year - olds and even 28 - year - olds were taken to the army. These are the men of war who have long served in the Soviet Army for seven years, no less, in the Saratov region, in Tatarstan. These are the people of the military suit, which many of them died at that time, but also many became ill, received, and became disabled from those years onward. And so, indeed, justice needs to be restored, likened to those involved in the fighting, so that they can receive the benefits they deserve. And I also propose to adopt this bill as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u206	Dear colleagues, I have been looking for a compromise here to make a decision in general and I have suggested that if from January 1, 2010, it should be taken as a whole. But right now I don't see any good will. So I'm going to put to the vote the first sentence of the committee to accept it as a basis, this is Project 4080, amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans and Guaranteeing Their Social Protection, on persons who were appointed or voluntarily joined the Soviet Army, the Navy at the time of the 1941-1945 military appeals. [[13:41:41]] For 335 We accepted it as a foundation. There was a proposal in general, but I understand it, the author, please, of the bill Paul Ungurian.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u207	Dear colleagues! The point is that we've started working on this law from the Ministry of Defence, from the Ministry of the Interior, and by 2006 these categories of people who fought as a minor were on the payroll of the military commissioners. Then, for two years, they actually depended on it because the entire documentary base began to be passed on to the organs of the cospolytics. Today, we have not figured out the number of people and so on. So you have to make these registers. We've now invited information to the Ministry of Defense, to the University of Minnesota to make the case really balanced, and I think that if we're behind schedule. His committee will consider, for the second reading, literally in a week, we will vote on it. Please, this is really the kind of question that Vladimir Mikhailovich would like to support.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u208	Thank you. Adam Martinyuk. We need to, if we make decisions, we're consolidated, otherwise I don't see how that's gonna work out. Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, please the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u209	Dear colleagues! I'm particularly referring to the faction of Yulia Timoshenko. From what you're taking from the military, don't let them tell you, long ago, all the things that have been handed over because we've built a centralized system of social security for military pensions right now, they're all getting pensions at their place of residence. That's one thing. The other one. I'd like to pay attention, it's not about all the conscripts of the 27th year, it's about people who were called underage, and then when they were serving in the army, they became disabled. The disabled have become, excuse me, the ones of the hundreds that have been called. So once again, it's no more than a hundred, well, let thousands of people in the whole state be. Let's take it because of what you're going to be. You won't make any more changes, we're just making what we can do today. Let us give them joy, for as long as we accept it, believe me, most of them will not wait for this amendment. Ivan Grigorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-03-m0.u210	Dear colleagues, please note that your acquaintance reads: “War invalids also include persons with disabilities. “ I’m sorry. ” And with regard to the law proposed by our colleague Ungurian: “The persons who took direct part in the fighting during the Great Homeland War and the war with Japan” is in the current law. And complement: “the persons who were appointed or voluntarily joined the ranks of the Soviet Army and the Navy during military appeals in 1941-45 and became disabled as a result of a general illness or illness received during military service or service in the internal affairs, state security, other military formations.” This is really about units of people, because as a compromise, let's write that this law comes in and out of January 1, 2010 and we vote it out. I ask you to support, not from the time of publication, but from 1 January 2010 and to vote on it as a whole. No objections? I am voting on this proposal, namely the adoption, as the Act, of the draft Act amending the Law on the Status of War Veterans, guaranteeing their social protection, taking into account the proposals for the implementation of this Act as of 1 January 2010. [[on persons who were appointed or voluntarily joined the ranks of the Soviet Army and the Navy during military appeals in 1941-1945]] Please vote. [[13:45:46.]] For 366 The law is passed. Ladies and gentlemen, we've discussed all the issues that were defined by Wednesday's schedule. At 3 p.m. Parliamentary hearings will begin on "On the social, medical and pension security of war veterans and marking 65 years of victory in the Great War of 1941-1945". The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow we'll continue our plenary work at 10 a.m. on schedule for Thursday. Thanks for the job.
