ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Please include the “Council” system. [[15:59:47]] A total of 425 Ukrainian national deputies were registered. The evening plenary session is open. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian Laws on Organizing Social Protection Issues, which resides in the area of monitoring of uranium mining and processing, nuclear facilities and facilities for handling radioactive waste, is under review. [[Registration number 2174]] Reported Deputy Head of the Ukrainian Presidential Secretariat Popov Igor Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u2	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The President of Ukraine drew attention to the socio-economic significance adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Law on Change in Certain Laws of Ukraine on the Organization of Social Protection Issues, which resides in the area of observation of uranium mining and processing enterprises, nuclear installations and facilities for handling radioactive waste. Indeed, the issue of social protection of the population in areas that may be subject to radioactive pollution needs a legislative solution. However, it is necessary to resolve these issues in an existing legal field, without violating the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine. Therefore, I would like to point out that the adoptions of the law have violated the basic constitutional requirements for the tax system and the tax system, since the only body that can regulate this area is the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Instead, it is proposed that the law empowers the Cabinet of Ministers to actually regulate the taxation of the mining, processing of uranium ore, the operators of nuclear installations, and the enterprises that are contracting its construction. Unfortunately, the government has been interfering with the taxation system and has recently exceeded its powers and its decisions have had negative socio-economic consequences. An example is the Government’s unconstitutional action to interfere with the rules on the administration of income tax and the administration of VAT. By order of July 1, 2009, No. 757, July 17, 2009, No. 838 and September 23, 2009, the government has already interfered with the order of payment of VAT. In addition, honourable national MPs, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, in a number of decisions, have declared unlawful government powers under the law to establish a system of taxation. By a decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine in 2005, in the case of the 2009 tax levy in the case of the temporary allowance to the applicable import duty rates. I would then like to take note of the proposals made by the Head of State for action solely in the existing legal field and within the framework of the rules of the Basic Law of the country. Furthermore, the concentration of funds in Ukraine’s State Budget special fund may lead to the failure of local budgets to receive appropriate subsidies, since they must be used only in the direction and order established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. As of 1 November of this year, for example, the transfer of the State budget to a special fund in the region was 90.7 percent to the plan for the period. The actual financing of investment projects in the socio-economic development of the regions, at the expense of the Stabilisation Fund for 9 months 2009, was only 51.4 per cent up to the plan for the period and only 29.5 per cent up to the plan for the year. Thus, the President of Ukraine does not object to the introduction of such a congregation, but proposes to set its rates in the law, as well as to provide for the budget code of Ukraine and the State Budget laws for the relevant years of directing its revenues directly to local budgets. I would like to point out that the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, in its conclusion, considers the proposals of the Head of State to be sufficiently substantiated and worthy of support in part of the provisions of the law, that the granting of powers to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to determine the sub-legal acts, elements of the legal mechanism for regulating the kind of public compulsory payment as a congregation for socio-economic compensation for the risk of the population living in observation zones.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u3	Please sign up for a question to the reporter. There are no wanters. Please, have a seat. A report from the committee, Tulub Sergey Borisovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u4	Honorary colleagues, the Committee on Fuel and Energy Complex, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security considered the proposals of the President of Ukraine to the Act on Amendments to Certain Laws of Ukraine on the Classification of Social Protection of Populations, which resides in Zones of Monitoring for Uranium Mines, Nuclear Installations and Objects for the Treatment of Radioactive Wastes. [[No. 2174]] The Chief Scientific and Expert Office and the members of the Professional Committee, having examined the proposals made by the President that you have now heard, does not deny that the rules that provide for the definition of individual elements of the legal mechanism of the Assembly for socio-economic compensation of the risk of population under the legal acts of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine are, to some extent, a delegation by Parliament of its own legislative powers. But first. I would like to remind you that it was with you that we supported 376 votes in the second reading of the law that was sent to the President in June. Next. It's different. These standards are in no way contrary to the already established legal practice of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. That is, the Cabinet of Ministers regulates a number of payments and congregations. I could give some examples. And that's all that matters. In the face of current financial and economic instability, this approach can even be justified, as it allows for the rapid elimination of obstacles to the implementation of the developed management, distribution and control mechanism for the socio-economic compensation of population risk. Therefore, the issue raised by the President of Ukraine has no issue, is important, but not decisive. With regard to the proposals of the Head of State to supplement the law with provisions that will determine the size of the assembly for socio-economic compensation of the risk of the population living in the area of observation of uranium mining and processing enterprises, the findings of the General Scientific and Scientific Administration seem to be more general judgment and does not impose substantive regulatory burdens on the improvement of the law. In addition, our committee has unanimously considered this issue and a new draft, a bill, a separate bill to deal with the problems of mining uranium ores and their territories is now being prepared. In view of what I have said, the committee has decided unanimously to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of this law in general by rejecting the President's proposals. So I very much ask you to vote in favour of this bill, as we voted in favour of it in June of this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u5	Any questions for Sergei Borisovich? There's a question. Please sign in. Bondarenko Volodymyr Dmitrovic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u6	Bondarenko, "Club of Yulia Timoshenko", Party "Reforms and Orders". Actually, it's not exactly a question, it's more of an argument to your position. We have such a fundamental financial document as the budget of Ukraine, it defines payments in different directions, including compensation for the population as a separate article, and it is limited in its use by the amount recorded there. That's why the government won't pop up. And the President is blinded by hatred for the head of government, and for whatever reason, he promises, sets his feet, blocks the government's decision. So in this case, I fully support the position of the committee and I ask everyone to vote in favour of the provision made to keep that law as whole as it is and to vote again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u7	Thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u8	Sit down, Sergey Borisovich. There are no more questions. Let's take a look at the president's remarks. At the very least, I would like to make a comment on the committee that has not prepared a table containing the comments of the President of Ukraine, as well as the relevant proposals of the committee. But you all have proposals made by the President of Ukraine, they are formulated and we are obliged to put all proposals separately to the vote. The President's proposals contain three meaningful proposals. Offer one. Paragraph 5, 8, 10, 11, 12 of paragraph 3 of paragraph 1 and paragraph 2, paragraph 2 of section 1 delete. This is the President's first meaningful proposal before the law that was passed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please be determined to support the proposal of the President of Ukraine. Please include the “Council” system. [[16:10:48]] For the 18th. The offer is not supported. President of Ukraine's second proposal. In paragraph 2 of section III, paragraph 3, the words “in order to determine the size of the calculation and the manner in which the costs are recalculated for socio-economic compensation for the risk of the population residing in the area of observation” shall be deleted. The President of Ukraine's proposal is for a vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[16:11:33]] For-19 The President's proposal is not supported. And the last proposal from the President of Ukraine. The President proposes to supplement the law with provisions that will determine the size of the congregation to compensate for the socio-economic risk of the population living in the area of observation, which is managed by uranium mining and processing enterprises, as provided for in the regulations on determining the size of such a assembly for the operating organizations of nuclear installations and the appropriate mechanisms for its handling. The President of Ukraine's proposal is for a vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[16:12:26]] For-21 The President's proposal is not supported. So we've considered all of the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. I'm voting on the proposal of a profile committee that proposes to overcome the veto of the President of Ukraine and re-adopt the law as a whole. The proposal for a profile committee shall be subject to a vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[16:13:04]] For 352 Decision taken. The President's veto is over. The law has been passed in general. The Ukrainian Act on the Integration of Ukraine into the European Agreement on the International Carriage of Dangerous Goods by Inland Waterways, with proposals by the President of Ukraine, is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 0125]] Reported Deputy Head of the Ukrainian Presidential Secretariat, Stavniychuk Marina Ivanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u9	Honorary Chairman of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, distinguished national deputies and present at the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! The Head of State supports the accession of Ukraine to the European Agreement on the International Carriage of Dangerous Goods by Inland Waterways, taking into account its importance for the development of Ukrainian-European cooperation on trade relations and improving the security of international transport of dangerous goods by waterways. At the same time, the President of Ukraine feels it is necessary to pay attention to this. The law provides for a commitment to Ukraine to the European Agreement on the International Carriage of Dangerous Goods by Inland Waterways by means of an association added to the law, with a warning that Ukraine does not consider itself bound by article 15 of the Agreement on the procedures it has established for dealing with disputes concerning the interpretation or application of the Agreement. Thus, the European Agreement, whose full obligation, with the exception of article 15, is given by law, is an integral part of the law that came upon the signature of the President of Ukraine. Article 2 of the European Agreement provides that the rules added to the covenant form an integral part of it. Any reference to an agreement means that the rules added to the agreement are simultaneously referenced. It is also specified that the rules added to the Agreement include rules relating to international transport of dangerous goods by inland waterways, prescriptions and procedures relating to inspection, issuance of certificates of approval, recognition of qualified associations,.. special permits, control, preparation and examination of experts, general transitional positions, additional transitional positions applied on separate inland waterways. [[paragraph 2 of the Treaty]] Meanwhile, the law that came to the President of Ukraine contains only part of the European Agreement on the International Carriage of Dangerous Goods by Inland Waterways, since the rules that are an integral part of the transfer to the President of Ukraine for signature have not been reached. They're gone. This could mean that Parliament, by consenting to Ukraine's accession to this European Agreement, voted only in favour of the part of the agreement that was added to the law adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Or that Parliament voted in favour of an agreement with its integral part, which is the stated rules, but the law that came upon the President of Ukraine did not add them to them for an unknown reason. In view of this, the President of Ukraine considers it possible to sign and formally publish a law that contains only a small part of the text of the European Agreement and has been voted on in a specified manner. Under these circumstances, the head of the coven returns the law with a proposal to reconsider it in order to settle the issue raised by the President of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please support the offer of the head of the garrison.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u10	Any questions for the reporter? There's a question. Please sign in. Bondarenko Volodymir Dmitrovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u11	Vladimir Bondarenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, Party “Reforms and Orders”. I find this document extremely important because in recent years there have been incidents of inland water freight transport, particularly in the Danube and extremely large accidents involving the loss of 17, 11 cargoes, which we do not know so far, especially sulfur, oil, and so on, you remember these incidents on the Azov Sea. So the delay, any delay in our country's entry into that order of legal regulation of such accidents that the world has set up is dangerous, in the winter ahead, precisely the storms that are taking place on this sea. So I think the President found a purely formal excuse here -- no rules. Well, let's do this, and in fact, they just didn't come, or they weren't counted by the Supreme Council, and I think that's what happened, that they were counted, they had to be taken into account, the law had to be taken into account, the veto must be overcome, and if it's in full measure, and no, then we'd have to take it into consideration in a new way, taking all those rules into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u12	The Honourable Volodymyr Dmitrovich is actually in this position as President of Ukraine. With the President of Ukraine returning the prescribed law to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, it was precisely because the law was complete and if there were to be additions to it, according to the constitutional procedure when the President signed the relevant law adopted by the Supreme Council, all additions should be given to the President of Ukraine in signing. In view of this, the President is asking Parliament: please vote again, add all additions to the relevant law, and the President will immediately sign this law with an understanding of the situation. In fact, you repeated the position of the President of Ukraine, which I thank you for.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u13	Shevchuk Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u14	Sergey Shevchuk, faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Dear Mary Ivanovna, please tell me if you think this is really a technical question. And if not all the documents came to the President's Secretariat that the matter could have been resolved by a simple phone call or an explanation of why no documents had been received from the Secretariat. And that makes it seem like our guarantor got some kind of Vetomania disease, and any minor reasons are an argument for vetoing, and we're here in Parliament, spending time clarifying such misunderstandings. It is clear that the Supreme Council of Ukraine, by voting in favour of joining the European Agreement, had in mind a complete document along with rules that for some strange reason did not reach the President's Secretariat.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u15	Can I answer that? Dear Sergey Volodymyrovich, the procedure of article 94 of the Constitution of Ukraine contains a clear procedure for signature by the President of Ukraine of the laws adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I will draw your attention to the fact that the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine on the order of voting and the re-examination of laws by the Supreme Council of Ukraine clearly provides an understanding of the procedure to be followed by Parliament in passing on the relevant laws for signature to the President of Ukraine. Since, in accordance with the Constitution and the legal position of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine in this case, Parliament has failed to comply with the procedure, the President of Ukraine has every reason to return and ask Parliament to do as the Constitution requires when adopting laws. And I would ask you to be more tolerant of what we all need -- both the Parliament and the President and all the people working in the appropriate apparatus -- to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u16	Thank you, Marina Ivanovna. Have a seat, please. The report is by Crnowil Taras Vjačeslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u17	Your Honor, the presiding officer, the distinguished colleagues of the national MPs! The Act on the Ratification of Ukraine’s Agreement to Join the European Agreement on the International Carriage of Dangerous Goods by Inland Waterways was successfully adopted by the Supreme Council on May 20, 2009. After that, with the motives that Marina Ivanovna Stavniyczuk just told us about, the President's veto was applied, he was returned to the Supreme Council. And the Committee on Foreign Affairs immediately, on May 24th, reviewed the President's proposals to this law, fully supported the President's proposal. There was no objection, no dissonant in this case. I just want to make a brief explanation essentially. As for the text of the agreement itself, there were no warnings about all the materials in it. Not in the Cabinet of Ministers, which provided this text, nor in the Supreme Council, nor in the Committees of the Supreme Council, nor in the Secretary of the President and the President himself. Textually, everything is fully agreed, including one exception to the ratification law that we have allowed. This is what is clearly provided for in the 16th article of the Law, where it is very clear in the first part that countries that are acceding to the Treaty have the absolute right, except for the 15th article. We took advantage of that right. Nor did this give rise to any objection from the President. A question arose. Whether by adopting this law on the ratification of their time the Supreme Council voted only for the part that came to the President, that is, the law itself, whether the Treaty itself voted, or whether it was voted in the same way, for all the supplements. I must say that we voted in favour of the full volume of the document at that time. They voted in favour of the treaty, voted in favour of the rule, and voted in favour of the addenda. The only one, since the plugins are usually slightly more than 1 thousand 800 pages in size, was found to be inappropriate, especially in view of the situation in the country, including paper, to reproduce the rules and supplements. This would be about a million pages in circulation made by the Supreme Council. The decision was to put it on the Web site of the Supreme Council. And for the first time and for the second time, these rules are completely posted on the site. Any of the deputies had a chance to get to know each other, and I think everyone got to know each other, all of those rules read completely. In this regard, we are correcting today the invalidity that was not due to the Supreme Council’s fault, since these documents in the original were still the same at that time in the Cabinet of Ministers, but this misunderstanding was removed. Today, we can fully implement the President’s proposals, re-adopt this law with these proposals, pass it on to the President’s Secretariat for signature in full volume. Just like the Ratification Act itself, both the treaty itself and the rules that I'm going to visually show you are about to occupy such an area on the ceiling. After that, I hope the law will be signed, because it is very serious for Ukraine today, and we need it, and there are no warnings. We, I hope that in the near future, as our colleagues said, it will be signed and the problems will be solved. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u18	Is there a question for a co-conspirator? No questions, sit down, please. Dear colleagues! There's a coincidence between the position of the President of Ukraine and the profile committee. I am voting for the re-admission of the full scope of the Ukrainian Act on Ukraine's accession to the European Agreement on the International Carriage of Dangerous Goods by Inland and Waterways. Registration number 0125. I'd like to make a statement. Take down the vote. Dear colleagues, this is part of the Ukrainian national MPs who don't understand what we're voting for, although twice both the rapporteur and the co-rapporteur explain that it's about re-adopting the ratification law, taking into account that they weren't transferred to the President's Secretariat all the appendices that were signed out of this agreement. And now, in order to send all the apps, we're voting again. This is a proposal from the President of Ukraine and this is a proposal from a committee of profile. Do you understand the offer? The Ukrainian Act on Ukraine’s accession to the European Agreement on the International Carriage of Dangerous Goods by Inland Waterways is on the vote. Please be sure. [[16:27:32]] For 343 The law has been re-adopted with all the protocols and additions sent to the President of Ukraine. It is announced before the review of the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of Citizens' Property Rights at the time of the exit of Ukraine's economy from the financial crisis. Reported by the Deputy Head of the Secretary of the President of Ukraine, Popov Igor Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u19	The Honourable Head of Nationals, the President of Ukraine fully agrees that the issue of social protection for borrowers is a very important issue in the context of the economic crisis. However, efforts to resolve the problem at the expense of other citizens, bank investors, are unacceptable. Therefore, the head of state applied the veto to the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of Citizens' Property Rights during the period of Ukraine's economic exit from the financial crisis, for this reason. First, the bill adopted by the Supreme Council, first of all, violates private property rights, particularly by preventing banks from returning funds from lenders. One of the main and worst consequences of the adoption of this law will be the critical deterioration in the financial discipline of borrowers, regardless of their financial status and the actual ability to pay their debts. Because the law approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine does not provide for any criteria for the selection of citizens living in mortgaged housing, so all lenders are subject to this law. Predicting an appropriate rule in the law, we destroy civil law in part of the right to use the encumbered property as a means of ensuring compliance with obligations to the creditor. Because the formulation of “residential real estate in which citizens are permanently living” is quite flimsy and wide, since it includes not only the borrowers themselves, but also, for example, the tenants who take down a flat in the citizens on a simple basis, but they will not be evicted, although the practice has shown that quite a large proportion of the property was purchased not for their own living, but for the purpose of reselling or renting. I would like to point out that the mortgage institution is primarily based on the moral incentive to take back the loan because the borrower may lose his property, which is collateralized by the loan taken. I must warn that the massive non-refundability of mortgage loans, which may start on the first day after the promulgation of this law, will entail a further outturn of the destabilization of the financial system, the bankruptcy of individual banking institutions and the total destruction of the mortgage lending mechanism as such, since such actions will demonstrate the inability of public institutions to establish clear and predictable rules for regulating social relations and balance the interests of all market participants in banking services, creditors, banks and lenders. Let me remind you, honourable national MPs, at this time there are about 200 billion dollars of citizens' money to be recovered in the banking system. And by putting the bank's funds at risk, we're depriving the banking system of its functions with regard to the accumulation and redistribution of citizens' savings, destroying confidence in the financial system as a whole. These are the numbers for help. On January 1, 2008, the mortgage amounted to 51.6 billion dollars, with a share of the problem loans being 0.7 percent. As of November 1, 2009, the amount of mortgages is 101.2 billion dollars, the share of problem loans has increased to 4.8 percent. Moreover, the bill that is proposed does not provide an answer to another equally important question: how will citizens, once the crisis is over, set by a Supreme Council decree that can last for years, put out the accumulated debt to the bank for all these years? And lastly, according to practice, in terms of the decline in the capacity of citizens and market conditions, banking institutions rarely take action such as the enforcement of mortgage assets and the forced eviction of residents from their homes. Because such actions result in significant losses for both the bank and the borrower in an insolvent real estate market. So why in such a radically forbidden way of regulating things that are not used by banks. I call on you before you start voting for a given project -- think again, by saving one borrower's choice, you're drowning two investors, and you're ruining the state's financial system. I would also like to remind you that on October 23, 2009, you, the honourable people's deputies, passed Bill 3585, which deals much more correctly with the problem of the bank's lenders. Yes, the bill foresees a moratorium on forced eviction from the home where a natural person resides or registers, a mortgage-payer, if the interest on mortgage loans is paid at the time or with a maximum delay of up to two months. The question of debt restructuring on agreed terms has also been documented. The standard limits the number of troubled borrowers and the grounds for moving out of the home. The introduction of such a moratorium will preserve the paying discipline of the borrowers and protect the rights of the creditor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u20	Any questions for the reporter? Yes. Please sign in. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u21	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders of Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense. Your Honor, I certainly agree with many of the President's proposals you've made. But isn't it clear to the President now that the best protection of the property rights of citizens who have money in banks is today's deadline for the President's submission of Mr. Stelmach's release from office and the change of the entire government of the National Bank. There's no place in the world for that kind of money to go down, and we're still getting 130,000 dollars for people to get their wages, I got them. I'm referring to the management of the National Bank. So, in considering this law, you've led to the famous President and the President has seen the concern of the national MPs who are looking for a way out of the crisis. Of course, it may not be entirely within the scope of this law, but the solution is today's release of the National Bank's leadership and the return of credit and population confidence to banks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u22	Dear Yuri Anatolyevich, the National Bank is an independent institution and it is very difficult to work in a financial crisis. The President of Ukraine highly appreciates Nazbank's activities and more than that, you see, in our work, we're trying to protect Nazbank from being placed on the Nazbank's insolvent position so that the National Bank doesn't have budget holes. To keep Ukraine’s gold reserves, which, unfortunately, are constantly inundated to use gold - currency reserves on non - property reserves for this function. That is why the President is not currently considering changing the direction of the National Bank, although he is closely monitoring its work.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u23	Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u24	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Igor Volodymyrovich, you have initiated the President's speech and argument in connection with this bill, saying that the President is in charge of protecting private property. You can kind of agree, so it's private property of banks. But did you think about the administration and the President's secretariat, or did we think about how we care about 180 banks, about their private property, and forget about the private property of about 20 million bank investors? Because they also invested their private property in banks, they deposited deposits, and these banks don't return. They want to return theirs, and they don't want to give back theirs. Isn't there a conflict here that we're protecting, and it turns out that we're protecting, I'm stressing once again, just 180 banks, forgetting 20 million investors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u25	Dear Adam Ivanovich, in my speech, I was just trying to point out that the President in this case does not protect specific banks and commercial institutions. In this case, the President protects the employment savings of 20 million Ukrainian citizens. Because if banks are robbed of loans, they will no longer be able to pay savings on deposits. And this is really going to be a blow to a lot of Ukrainian citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u26	Bondarenko Volodymir Dmitrovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u27	Vladimir Bondarenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, “Reforms and Orders”. I will vote in favour of rejecting this law. He should not act in the legislative field of Ukraine at all. Note what we are talking about. A person deliberately sets up his dwelling without planning to give it to anyone. He's taking money -- it's what's called borrowing alcoholism, or borrowing drugs, or the idea of laying the devil's soul and not planning on praying it back. So it's a completely immoral act of individuals who, by making a living, take money and want to use it. What about the one who invested his money and planned to return it safely from the bank? Of course, there is a breakup. And here some advocate the interests of those citizens. I wouldn't say that they act on moral principles, they act solely, coming out of it, grab the money, and don't take it back. Then let's make a rule: don't make a living. I mean, it's the law to ban housing. Then it will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u28	Because it's not just a question, it's a comment. Partly, of course, I can agree with you. At the same time, however, they are Ukrainian citizens like you and me. They are in a difficult situation. Of course, they must fulfill their obligations. But Law 3585, which I've already talked about, which is now on the President's signature, and it's very likely to sign, it's regulating the procedures for negotiations between the borrower and the bank to restructure that debt. So completely, of course, you can't let them not pay for the loans. However, there must be both target sheep and net wolves, and the banking system should work. People have to get their deposits and people have to pay their loans.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u29	Please sit down. According to the account, Archevite Stanislaw Mikhailovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u30	Dear National Deputies! The Committee of the Supreme Council on Finance and Banking reviewed the bill and unanimously decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that the proposals of the President of Ukraine be supported and rejected. Our committee came out of the next one. Well, first of all, on the first reading, our committee wasn't the main committee for the drafting of this bill. He was working on a committee on tax and customs policy, and among other things, the committee recommended that the bill not be passed on as a basis and even registered a decision on its rejection. Against the adoption of the bill was expressed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the National Bank of Ukraine, the Association of Ukrainian Banks, the Ukrainian National Mortgage Association, the Ukrainian Banking Union. Significant comments were made by the Chief Scientific and Expert and Chief Legal Administrations of the Supreme Council, the Institute of Legislation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The law is totally inconsistent with civil, financial banking legislation. Here are some examples. Article 33 of the Law on Mortgage, article 20 of the Law on “Prosecution”, articles 589, 590, 591, 1046, 1054 of the Civil Code of Ukraine, article 6 of the master code of Ukraine, article 5 of the Law on Banks and Banking. In no way are the authors of the bill proposing that all legal standards be resolved. But given the importance of protecting the debtor’s property rights, our committee prepared an alternative and was talking about it today. It's a law or a 3585 bill in which we have professionally and comprehensively addressed the protection of debtors' property rights and the introduction of a moratorium. At the same time, the committee points out that the consideration of the bill and its adoption were not taken into account by our committee or taken into account. Our committee also points out that if this bill is adopted, it is obvious that the financial situation of the creditor will deteriorate, resulting in the reduction of creditors’ credit resources, i.e. banks and other credit institutions; it will negatively affect the ability of them to lend to others, including for housing to increase housing loans; it will result in the risk of the creditor’s default on third parties, i.e. the return of deposits. And of course, the moratorium that is proposed in this way will, of course, lead to abuses, deliberate defaults. And in doing so, we have to remember that once the crisis is over, that's when the financial crisis comes out, there's going to be a lot of debt on the market, which is going to have to go back anyway. So the committee proposes to support the President's proposals and reject the bill. And once again, all of these norms are civilized and we've integrated into the bill under number 3580, for which we've all voted almost with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u31	The question is to a coconspirator? Yes. Please sign up. Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u32	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear Stanislav Mikhailovich, would you please tell me what committee had the right not to prepare this bill for second reading? The committee against this law, but no one gave you the right not to prepare it for second reading and the Supreme Council, unfortunately, had to vote this bill in May-Month in the second reading in the version that was considered for the first time. What's my point? But the point is, there were amendments, including Simoneka, amendments to this bill, which were made to the following. First, expand the base, not just housing, but all the other property not to be taken out of the crisis. Second, not counting the course, but returning to the course that people took those loans. And thirdly, to increase the credit of a national producer, i.e. to give it a 3-5 percent chance. The committee has completely ignored, that is, any suggestions. He wasn't preparing the bill at all for second reading. Who gave you that right, please tell me.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u33	Well, I have to do it again. First of all, to remind you that somehow this bill did not come to our committee from the very beginning, but was considered on the Tax Committee. And I would like to point out that this committee has also rejected, registered a proposal that this bill should be rejected. I recall one of the meetings when I asked the committee not to consider this bill because we are preparing a bill under number 3585, where we are professionally addressing the issue of moratorium and, thanks to you, and we thank you all for your support. Twice this bill has nearly 400 votes. Bill 3585, where the moratorium is clearly prescribed. Of which. Why our proposal wasn't taken into account and this bill was put forward in the room, it's hard for me to comment now, but our position was to consider two bills: and this one that I'm reporting now, and 3585, because it was there. One item of consideration, that is, a mortgage moratorium.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u34	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u35	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Your Honor, you know very well that, when preparing the President's proposals, every national deputy is obliged to hand out a table to each of the President's proposals, and she has to vote. Today we have not published such charts, and they are not at all in the secretariat of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for today. Thus, the law is now passed - I understand that in order to fail it - but contrary to the Rules. So, Reverend Alexander Volodymyrovich, you can't look at the full program as it should, and the money is worth millions and millions, tens of millions of Ukrainian citizens. There should be a table because the expert board writes that part of the president's remarks are correct, part is no, but then we should vote and accept it in a new edition. We are deprived of this opportunity. I agree with what Martinyuk said.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u36	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u37	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that the bill consists of two positions. Two sentences. The first sentence is the introduction of a moratorium.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u38	I'm sorry. I'd like us to get a table on the President's proposal. The president wrote them down, and now you've heard a huge performance, a huge performance. So these proposals had to be broken down, and just like we always do, at the points, and they should be in us. I'm calling. I ask the chairman, the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, that Alexander Volodymyrovich, should require a table for the tables to be. This is provided for. There aren't any. Then we must vote on our departure from the Rules before this. But we didn't vote on that? We didn't vote. So let's not throw out the law altogether. I see an intention: the intention is to throw out the law. And let those people walk, because bankers have to be protected. The bankers are protected by everyone, and the people are protected by nobody. That's a big deal.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u39	Dear colleagues, you have heard that I have made a comment today by one of the committees that did not submit the table where the proposals of the President of Ukraine were made. Now we're looking at a law that the table should not be prepared for, because the President only made one suggestion: to reject. And the committee also made only one suggestion: reject. Table here can't be in nature as a phenomenon. Please be careful when you read the documents. Please, the question is the national deputy of Žebrovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u40	Dear colleague, don't you think the adoption of moratorium laws is just populism to say that we're protecting someone? As far as the bankers are concerned. Dear colleagues, in general, the bank’s capital consists of a constitutional, a deposit, i.e. liabilities, both natural and legal persons. And actually, talking about what bankers are protecting is not true. Because most of the bank's assets are made up of liabilities, i.e. deposits. And if you don't count the loans as a new one, then you don't have to count the deposits. Then it is fair to admit that there should be rules of the game, once and for all. Of course, the impact that exists but within the limits of the wise one is to be softened. And just a moratorium is pure populism to go to people and tell them how they care about them. Take care of others. Because a banker is always his mastermind, he can get his money out. And it's going to be the deposit of the people who put it in the bank.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u41	Thank you. It is in Bill 3585 that we have prescribed such criteria and such an algorithm that the moratorium is that the last limit, the last measure of punishment, should be. By Law 3585, we've prescribed a mechanism so that the customer and the bank can first agree on restructuring this debt. And among other things, the bill that we passed with you, we made it clear that only those mortgage agreements where this person actually lives are going to the moratorium. No more than 35 percent of the family’s income should be directed to repay the loan each month. We've identified those mortgage agreements that have a plot of not more than 1 million dollars and a lot of other rules. So it's all done: and lower interest rates. This was done to find first a way to restructure this debt, not a moratorium or repayment, or the realisation of this property. Thus, Bill 3585 professionally regulated the protection of property rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u42	Thank you, Stanislav Mikhailovich. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues! We have two proposals that are oddly consistent, both with the President of Ukraine and with the Committee of Profiles, and they are based on the proposal to repeal the law previously adopted by the Supreme Council. The proposal by the President of Ukraine and the Pro-Profession Committee to repeal the Law on the Protection of Citizens' Property Rights at the time of Ukraine's economic exit from the financial crisis is put to the vote. Please identify yourself. [[16:51:59]] For-26 President of Ukraine's proposals and the profile committee are not supported. I am voting for the President's proposal to overcome the President's veto on the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of Citizens' Property Rights during Ukraine's economic exit from the financial crisis, and I ask you to identify yourself. [[16:52:33]] For-56 The decision is not taken. The law has been revoked. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on the Licensing of Activities of Development, Production, Implementation, Repair of Technical and Other Means of Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities and on Services for Rehabilitated Rehabilitation is under review. Reported Deputy Head of the Ukrainian Presidential Secretariat Popov Igor Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u43	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! On 21 May 2009, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the Ukrainian Act “On Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on the Licensing of Activities in Development, Production, Implementation, Repair of Technical and Other Means of Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities and on the Provision of Services for Selected Rehabilitation Services”. The law proposes to introduce licensing of activities for the development, production, repair of technical and other means, rehabilitation of disabled persons and provision of services for the services of the listed means by making appropriate changes to the laws of Ukraine on the licensing of certain types of economic activity and on the rehabilitation of disabled Ukrainians. In the opinion of the President of Ukraine, this law cannot be signed for such reasons. First, the changes proposed by law do not comply with the principles of the relevance, adequacy and balance of State regulatory policy as defined by the Ukrainian Law on the Principles of National Regulatory Policy in the Field of Economic Activity. In particular, there is sufficient justification for the state’s regulation of household relations, for ensuring the balance of interests, for citizens, and for the State. It should be noted that the Ukrainian Act on the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities establishes mandatory certification in the State Certification System of Medically Designed Products, Technical and Other Rehabilitation Means, which are compiled into them under the conditions of serial production, article 26. The implementation of this product without certification and a sign of conformity, which confirms its compliance with the requirements of standards or other regulatory technical documents, is prohibited. To this day, a national registration made in Ukraine or imported medical devices, including orthopedics, has been introduced. The Ukrainian Ministry of Health’s order of 4.08.05 on the approval of the list of medical devices subject to national registrations, re-registerings in Ukraine, sets out a list of products that are subject to mandatory national registration. [[No. 393]] This list includes, inter alia, wheelchairs with no machinery to drive, wheelchairs with a motor, or other machinery to bring in motors and orthopedic devices. Imports into customs territory, implementation and applications in Ukraine of the listed medical products are allowed only after their national registration. In view of the above, the introduction, licensing of the listed activities will lead to a fundamental and excessive regulatory influence of the State on the relevant areas of economic activity. The production and repair of facilities for the rehabilitation of persons with disabilities are carried out by large associations, such as Croprotez, SPECmedtechnics, and thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises and workshops. Including the formation and integration of persons with disabilities with visual, hearing, and motion equipment. The introduction of licensing means that all of these enterprises, apart from obtaining mandatory certificates, will also be subject to licensing procedures. This will inevitably lead to the cessation of small businesses, which in many cases are directly occupied by people with limited physical capacity, for which the licensing procedure is insurmountable. So the state is actually forcing these people who need special attention to stand in line for weeks to get the necessary paperwork. Second, the changes proposed by law will lead to violations of citizens' constitutional rights to health. [[Article 49 Constitutions of Ukraine]] The introduction of licences for these types of farming activities will result in additional costs for the owners of these activities, and it will inevitably result in higher costs for the rehabilitation of disabled persons and services. It is unacceptable to adopt decisions that are an additional burden for the most vulnerable and underserved categories of the population — the disabled. Therefore, the President of Ukraine proposes a revision of the Ukrainian Law on Change in Certain Ukrainian Laws on the Licensing of Activities for the Development, Production, Implementation and Repair of Technical and Other Means of Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities and on the Provision of Services for Selected Rehabilitation Means, taking into account these observations and subsequent proposals. Yes, the Head of State proposes the deletion of article 1 and paragraphs 2 and 3 of article 2 of chapter 1. It is proposed that the legislation voted by Parliament be repealed, which establishes the licensing of manufacturing activities, the maintenance of technical and other means of rehabilitating persons with disabilities, and the provision of services for the services of designated rehabilitation facilities. In this connection, it is also proposed to change the name of the law by introducing it in the following wording: “To amend the Ukrainian Act on the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine”. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u44	Is there a question for the reporter? Please sign in. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u45	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear reporter, Mr. Igor! This law does not introduce licensing as miscalculated now, since it is provided for in article 26 of the Law on the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine, which is absolutely valid today. This law only harmonizes with the law on the licensing of certain types of agricultural activity. So, in my opinion, it's a bit of a veto twist. And I'd like to ask you, taking this opportunity. Why does the President, his representatives during the second reading procedure not exercise their right to legislative initiative, and the result is that everything is passed by law, even a normal law, no one uses the right of legislative initiative, and then goes on to abuse the veto? So that's the abuse of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u46	Answer me.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u47	Dear Yuri Anatoliyovich, yes, there is some disagreement in the two laws on the rehabilitation of disabled persons in Ukraine and on the licensing of certain types of economic activity, but why do we make a decision that makes it difficult to regulate the licensing of all kinds of activities rather than simplify and make them more accessible to both customers and businesses. With regard to the abuse of the veto, I must say that unfortunately, a very large part of the President's proposals are perceived politically in the style “I do not love the President, I will not vote for any of his proposals even if, in principle, they are healthy”. I hope that we'll move on to something more constructive, and we'll work on the content of the laws, and we'll actually evaluate the text of those amendments, not the subject of the introduction. But it is precisely why it is very often difficult to work with second reading because of the rejection of procedures, of proposals. And while there are some pretty positive examples, let's say under the Elections Act after all these political solitaires and pitches, the last week was fruitful work, and we're going to have a normal result after tomorrow.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u48	Landik Vladimir Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u49	Dear Mr. Igoru, don't you think that the Cabinet of Ministers is always telling us what we are simplifying, simplifying, and in this law, on the contrary, making a system of licensing this activity, it is all about commanding everyone in the world by hand. And then you get the same firm for all of Ukraine, which can with and without tender, and now you don't need a license and only get a license, and you deliver Tamiflu for 251 bracelets instead of 5 euros and you'll be delivering carts purchased abroad and so on. That this is all done to usurp all activities in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u50	Dear Mr. Landik, I would like to support this position that since this Supreme Council has formed this government, this Supreme Council is responsible for the work of this government and the parliamentary control is very important and the examples that you've been talking about, really Parliament should control the government's activities, direct and sometimes even force the government to comply with those laws that Parliament is adopting that have formed this government. And that's why I think in your speech you've also divided that point of view that our business, primarily the business in which the disabled citizens of Ukraine work, needs not regulation, but deregulation.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u51	Alexandrovska Alla Alexandrovna
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u52	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Igor Vladimirović, but agree that licensing is not just about getting extra money, yes, it's actually about letting money do some kind of activity. But licensing means that you let someone do this kind of work that you're sure will do it right, that he's a specialist, that he owns certain technologies, you know? Therefore, the question might have been raised correctly because how they would work in this area, how they would produce prosthetics, how they would produce the necessary equipment for persons with disabilities depended on the life and health of persons with disabilities. Therefore, the question may indeed be that such activities should be licensed.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u53	Dear Alla Alexandrovna, there is now a very hard and serious mechanism for certification and control and for the production of goods for the disabled, and for their import and sale. And this law, we think, in the opinion of the President of Ukraine, creates additional barriers, additional bureaucratic barriers for these enterprises to work and, of course, the price of the license will be placed in the price of the final product, and the price of the final product is also so heavy, especially in the context of the socio-economic crisis, and for many small enterprises, it will really not be possible to go through another additional registration procedure, pay an additional duty. That's why the President thinks that the certification mechanisms that work today and the level of regulation in this field are sufficient. It's working today.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u54	Thank you. Have a seat, please. The report is Natalia Kraljevska.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u55	Dear colleagues, the Industrial Regulatory Policy and Enterprise Committee, at its meeting on 08 July 2009, considered the President's proposals to the Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the licensing of work to develop the maintenance of technical and other means of rehabilitating persons with disabilities and the provision of services for the maintenance of those means of rehabilitation. [[Bill No. 3287]] This law was to bring the law on the rehabilitation of disabled persons in Ukraine into line with and the licensing of certain economic activities. The President's proposal is that the adoption of the law will lead to the excessive regulatory influence of the State and will entail additional costs for economic operators, resulting in an increase in the cost of rehabilitation of persons with disabilities. But it is fair to say that increasing the cost of rehabilitation prices if the enterprise is officially licensed is only one minimum wage. Therefore, if we invest in the cost of a bribe for a license in the cost of a means of rehabilitation, it will be a completely different calculation. Therefore, the official value will certainly not increase. As a result, the constitutional rights of citizens to receive health services will be enhanced. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in its conclusion of 22 June 2009, proposes to reject the President's proposal. The Industrial Regulatory Policy and Enterprise Committee examined the President's comments and suggested that the law should be amended. The Committee is fairly consistent in its decisions. And we categorically oppose an increase in the number of activities to be licensed, except those activities that could undermine Ukraine's competitiveness and strategic sectors of the economy. In this case, this approach to certification of this activity is rather harsh, rather complex in Ukraine. And if all certification procedures are followed, we believe that licensing is not an objective norm in this case. The Committee therefore requests support for the new law and requests the support of the Committee's proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u56	Natalia Yuriovna, don't go so fast, please, Natalia Yuriovna. I have a suspicion that you may be questioned. Is there a question for a co-conspirator? There's a question. Please sign in. Please, Shevchuk Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u57	Natalia Yuriovna, please tell me more clearly, maybe I listened. The committee supports the President's proposal or not to make clarity definitive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u58	The Committee proposes a new version of the law where the rule on licensing of this business activity is excluded. We oppose the introduction of licences for this type of economic activity.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u59	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u60	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Natalia Yuriovna, here you suggest, in the table at least, that you take into account three Presidential proposals: by changing the name, by deleting part one of article 9 and by article 26 on removing part thirteen. But this same Law does not invalidate the rehabilitation of persons with disabilities; it remains. So, we're just. We can be misunderstood. That we're canceling the license. For whoever gets where he is will do as the marmalade is now done. And this is a tool for people with disabilities, it's a serious thing. You can't approach that, just simplify it. Now we've got it simplified, it's whoever's in jail and wherever. Tuberculosis patients sew bandages, and we feel that this is normal? It can't just be treated that way. So I wanted to ask you. How do you propose to vote? The committee and you personally?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u61	It is agreed that this is an important and responsible activity. Indeed, the means to rehabilitate persons with disabilities must be prepared professionally. But let us remember the licensing law, which very clearly defines the criteria under which certain economic activities are subject to licensing. I am here to support my colleague, Vladimir Ivanovich, who spoke. And we don't have to put everyone under the most severe state control. There must be a measure in everything. Otherwise, the chair we're sitting on in Rada will also require a license from him. Because, in principle, you can fall and get hurt. So let's look for a balance. And I, for example, believe that the disability law also requires that this rule be removed. Because now it's half and it's not working. Because all licensing in our country is governed solely by the licensing law. Therefore, the certification rule, and we have a huge machine that carries out certification of all activities in the country, should simply take on this activity.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u62	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u63	Taking the certification and standardization system, I think we will make it a law that this activity should be subject to a more detailed approach to controlling the production of rehabilitation tools for persons with disabilities, and our standardizers did not go to markets and seek where to find any violations, pseudo-infringements and indeed engaged in this norm and had serious State control. But licensing has nothing to do with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u64	Herman Hanna Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u65	Please give Chechchev the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u66	Dear Natalya Juryevna, I don't understand why this has happened. Recently, the bills coming from the Government have not found support in the 226-vote room. What seems to be supporting is promised by the President. And I would not say that the President speaks out of such political positions, because very often, I would say so, the active representative of the majority of Yuri Carmazin, too, strongly criticizes these bills. Maybe they're really bad laws and you don't have to push the shaft? And so it is, as the miners say, “The government drives away the rock, and there is no coal.” Therefore, it must be stopped and simply not destroyed by quality, unprofessional draft laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u67	Thank you very much, Mikhail Vasilevich, we finally have the miners saying that the government is chasing the rock, I thought it was always the other way around. I agree with you in part. And I believe that, as you and I have considered this bill on the committee, we have adopted a completely balanced and professional position. The State is always doing its best, and this is the task of the State, the task of the Government, in a large way, to maximize State control, to take everything into account, under the system of government regulation. To that end, there is a Parliament to strike a balance in order to clearly understand the extent to which our State control system should have a regulated system or the extent to which we should give our entrepreneurs freedom and opportunity. This is a very delicate norm, and I believe that we need to finalize the disability law and take all the necessary comments into account. But don't put that rule in the licensing law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u68	Thank you, Natalia Yuriovna. Let's move on to making a decision. Honorary colleagues, the first proposal of the President of Ukraine, recommended by the committee to take account of, introduce the new title of the article as follows: Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine. The President of Ukraine's proposal is for a vote. [[17:14:03]] For-83 The proposal of the President of Ukraine and the committee of profile are not supported. Second sentence of the President of Ukraine: Part 1 delete. It is also supported by a committee. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:14:34]] For-13. The offer is not supported. President of Ukraine's third sentence: paragraph 2 and paragraph 3 of paragraph 1 delete. It is also supported by a profile committee. I'll bet you a vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[17:15:02]] For the 15th. The offer is not supported. I am voting for the proposal to defeat the veto of the President of Ukraine on the Ukrainian Law “To Change Certain Laws of Ukraine. ” [[on the licensing of activities for the development, production and implementation of technical and other means of rehabilitation]] Registration number 3287. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:15:41]] For-187 The decision is not taken. Veto's not overtaken. The law has been revoked. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of economic activity on aviation is being published for consideration. Registration number 2311. Reported Deputy Head of the Ukrainian Presidential Secretariat Popov Igor Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u69	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! History is similar to this bill. On the one hand, we want to have the safety of the means on which we fly, on the other hand, we cannot regulate the sector too much. On 21 May 2009, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the Ukrainian Act “On the Amendment to Article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of economic activity” on aviation industry”. The law proposes to introduce licensing for commercial activities from manufacturing, repair, and aviation equipment, including aircraft engines, parts and accessories. According to the President of Ukraine, this law cannot be signed for such reasons. First, the changes proposed by law do not comply with the principles of the relevance, adequacy and balance of the State regulatory policy set out in the Ukrainian Act on the Principles of State Regulatory Policy in the Field of Economic Activity. In particular, this applies to sufficient justification for government regulation of household relations, the provision of regulatory activities for the balance of interests of operators, citizens, and the state. Of course, the State must ensure that aviation technology is developed, produced, and repaired, primarily through safety requirements. We would like to draw your attention to the fact that, for today, such control is being carried out in Ukraine through a mechanism for mandatory certification of activities related to the design, manufacture, and repair of aviation technology. Problems related to the problems of proper certification should be the subject of constant attention by experts. It is no secret that the modern certification system in some cases is outdated and rather corrupt, which has a negative impact on its effectiveness as a mechanism for State control over flight safety. However, existing problems cannot be the basis for another round of state control. It is also worth considering that legislation is now subject to licensing for the development, manufacture, implementation, repair, modernization, and disposal of military equipment, including aviation technology. This is provided for in article 9, paragraph 72.1, of the Ukrainian Act on the licensing of certain economic activities. Under these circumstances, the introduction of additional licensing of manufacturing, repair, and aviation technology and equipment will result in the State’s excessive regulatory influence on the relevant areas of economic activity. It's different. The introduction of licences for these types of farming activities will result in significant additional costs for operators, may lead to the removal from the market of small producers and the monopolization of the market, and will inevitably result in an increase in the cost of aviation technology and aviation equipment, and the provision of services to them. So far, 23 companies are producing aviation technology, and about 180 companies, including 19 specialized repair companies, are operating in aviation and equipment. The adopted law provides that more than 200 airlines listed in addition to obtaining compulsory certificates should also be required to obtain licenses. I'm not sure that this will improve the quality, but I'm confident that it will affect the cost of the products and services of the listed enterprises, but it will accordingly reduce the competitiveness of aviation technology and domestic production in the world market. Thirdly, it is also appropriate to note that consumers of maintenance services and buyers of aviation technology and aircraft equipment are particularly airlines that provide services for the transport of passengers and cargo to Ukraine. The increase in the cost of aviation technology and aviation equipment, as well as their repairs, will, in turn, result in an increase in the cost of such services, and will have a negative impact on the development of appropriate services markets. Therefore, the President of Ukraine proposes to repeal the Ukrainian Law “On Making Changes to Article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on Licensing Certain Economic Activities. ” Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u70	Any questions for the reporter? Yes. Please sign up for the question. Stonewall Valery Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u71	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Kamchatya, Yulia Timoshenko, Kharkiv district. Your Honor, you've been arguing that there's nothing to be done. It seems to me that every extra degree of control in such a responsible area as aircraft construction is not too expensive, it is security, first. So the arguments you're making, I don't think they're very convincing, that's the first. And secondly, if you'll excuse me, maybe a little bit off the subject, but you coughed eight times during your report, maybe you should see a doctor, because you have signs of acute respiratory infection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u72	Dear Mr. Valerius, I will begin with the second question, because of my specificity of work, I am regularly examined by a doctor so as not to infect the honourable national deputies or to disrupt the legislative process in this room. The doctor said that everything is fine, you need to do less, and you need to make more decisions at the level of the Supreme Council Committees so that there are not so many vetoes. In fact, your question should say that the secretariat has consulted experts in both business and aviation. And they all came together that the really available certification system for today is a pretty tough, reliable system that needs to be implemented, and running an additional system for today will be a negative stimulus to the entrepreneurial climate in Ukraine. Unfortunately, Ukraine continues to fall behind for its freedom and business, and we are about 150 places below 150 places worldwide. And that's why we don't have investment, which is why Ukraine is so negative.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u73	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u74	Yuri Carmazin. You know, we have one of the best airplanes in the world and one of the reliable airplanes, unfortunately, the political situation does not allow us to invest. And you know very well why. And I wanted to, the point of my question is one, as you're referring to the proposal made by the Chief Scientific and Experimental Administration under the signature of the Bordenuk on another edition of this law, adding quite rightly that there is no need for two different licenses to have an enterprise: one for military engineering and aviation equipment, and the other for civilian equipment, which is actually there. [[artists: Teeth and Valkowski]] So they proposed: “The production, manufacture, implementation, repair, modernization and disposal of military equipment, military weapons and ammunition, except for the manufacture and repair of military aviation technology and aviation equipment”, which is how they propose to write this article. And the committee suggested that part of it. So I want to hear your opinion on this, if you can, you've been given authority.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u75	Dear Yuri Anatoliyovich, as I understand it, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority in this particular case is proposing ways, as in the body of the law, as in the text of the law, to take into account the President's observations and suggestions. And so, of course, that fits the ideology of the President's address, and if the Supreme Council takes that into account, that's exactly what the President's proposal is.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u76	Bondarenko Volodymir Dmitrovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u77	Vladimir Bondarenko, "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko", the “Reforms and Orders” party. Everything about aviation in Ukraine is very important to us. Ukraine is one of the seven aviation countries in the world, and so the legislative framework that provides for this sector should be clear and concentrated, I think, in one big document, for example, the Aviation Code of Ukraine. So today's paper, it's a piecemeal document, and it has to solve certain issues, although very important. But lately, this sector is branching out, developing, and there are a lot of small businesses, not just like Kyivsky or Kharkiv Airlines, but also small companies that release oversized aircraft, there have been incidents. So I think this law needs to be repealed, and I think we should start to develop the Aviation Code, where there would be situations that relate to aviation incidents, what actions should be the authorities after them and the controlling authorities. There should be certification and personnel, for for example, the entire plane was operated by a relative of Yanukovic, who had worked in a glass plant before. This should not be the case even if he is a relative.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u78	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u79	So I would ask you not to vote in favour of this document, but rather to have the relevant committee and Cabinet of Ministers develop the Ukrainian Aviation Code, which would include these positions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u80	Well, all I can do is support the national MP, because, in fact, the systemic approach is always better than the cleavage than the operational response to a single event. I'm wondering where the law might have come from that someone, someone, did something wrong, didn't work out, and we're cutting off the whole sector right now. That's why if such a code is developed, of course, it might be better.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u81	Thank you. Sit down, Igor Volodymyrovich. Correspondence from the Natalia Juryovna Kraljevska Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u82	Dear colleagues, on 21 May this year we passed the Ukrainian Act amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Act on the licensing of certain economic activities. [[concerning the aircraft construction industry]] This law is not signed by the President, the President's objections are that any legal and natural person who develops, manufactures, repairs and operates civil aviation must obtain a certificate. In doing so, the development, manufacture, implementation, repair, modernization and disposal of military equipment, including aviation equipment, is now subject to licensing. That is, we understand that, for today's military technology, we have more State control and less State control for civil aviation. Logic, in principle, is not at the beginning of the establishment of a legislative framework. On the basis of the above, the adoption of the law is expected to lead to the excessive regulatory influence of the State and will also entail additional costs for economic operators. But with regard to additional costs. I explained in my previous statement that, with regard to the excessive regulatory influence of the State, it is not clear why this excessive regulatory influence for military equipment can be extended and for civil aviation, where indeed liability is far from being applied. In principle, this is a fairly traditional argument by the President, and we have heard it many times, and I think we will hear it again. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine draws attention to the fact that the introduction of licensing in this case does not conflict with the basics of the Licensing Act, because in principle it has the key principles of public licensing policy such as the protection of the legitimate interests of life and the health of citizens, the protection of the environment and the security of the State. Therefore, we believe that the excessive regulatory influence of the State expressed by the President is sufficiently controversial. Our committee agrees with the expert evaluation, and it is the life and health of our citizens. And here the State simply cannot afford to deviate from control and leave producers without proper control. In addition, we understand that today and in the past decades, aviation in our country is a strategic industry and Ukraine is now part of a world of aircraft manufacturers. Therefore, the Committee on Industrial, Regulatory Policy and Enterprise does not fully agree with the conclusions of the President of Ukraine, and at the same time, we have negotiated with the authors of the bill. And today the committee has prepared a new draft of the bill, and the amendment to the new draft of the bill has been made by the author himself, Mr. Boguslaev, who has made it clear that production, repairs, aviation trade must be registered and licensed at a maximum take-off weight of more than 5 tons of 700 kilograms and aviation equipment to it, including aircraft engines, in detail. Because initially, when the drafters did not set a minimum threshold, all light aviation was also licensed. These are now tens of thousands of small aviation enterprises that are sufficiently competitive and have completely different conditions. This is a small aviation licensing base and we can't let our aircraft down. Therefore, the drafters and I have clearly separated the bill from Mr. Boguslaev between small aviation and civil aviation. In this case, the Committee has already prepared. We therefore request that, honourable members, send this bill to the committee for further elaboration. And tomorrow we will be ready to register in the new version this bill, which will indeed be useful and which today will bring order in the sector as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u83	Is there a question for a coconspirator? Please log in. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u84	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin. I'd like to ask you a question like that. Dear Natalia Yuriovna, did I think you said there should be weaker requirements for small aviation? And let's remember that a small or loving flying machine could go somewhere, somewhere else, into people where there's a lot, and create huge, huge problems. So I absolutely agree with your, as always, brilliant arguments, stress, as always brilliant, including with the reaction, but please, everything that goes up, everything that can cause some security, must be checked by the Ministry of Industrial Policy, and it must be issued in an orderly manner. Someone must be responsible for the safety of this product, which flies, moves, and is an object of danger, rises into the air, and is an object of danger. I asked.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u85	Thank you very much. I fully agree with you that all aircraft should be completely safe. And the State must guarantee all our citizens the safety of aviation. But we must also be aware that there is a small aviation that cannot be covered by the same licensing conditions in conjunction with civil aviation and military aviation. It's like licensing giguli and bicycles and saying that both should have the same licensing conditions. You're never gonna make a Giguli out of a bike. But we cannot say that any of them are less secure. Therefore, today, based on the logic and arguments of the drafters of the bill, we have come to a full understanding with them. To separate small aviation and, in the first option, to be adopted for civil aviation and in conjunction with military aviation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u86	Please, Kseniya Mikhailna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u87	Colleagues! Xenia Lapina, group “For Ukraine!” Dear colleagues! I want to pay attention to a few professional things. First. Now we're all not talking about what's in the bill. Because the issue of flight quality and safety and pre-flight inspections are carried out by an administration that complies with international requirements. And all of this is happening. And it's only about what's called the production and repair of aviation. And that's where exclusive certification works, because the license is for activity, and the certification for specific products. And we are concerned about the quality of this product, not at all about the process of conducting some kind of activity. And we're making demands for production, so that's where certification is supposed to work. And we're really ready to prepare for the next time one that will guarantee security, and at the same time it won't.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u88	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u89	will not put us on our knees in another economic freedom rating where you and I, colleagues, refer to a repressive economy below Belarus, Russia, Kyrgyzstan and Uzbekistan. We're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u90	Natalia Juryovna, your arguments. There are no more arguments in the report. Let's move on to making a decision. The president of Ukraine proposes that the law be repealed. The proposal by the President of Ukraine to repeal Ukrainian law No. 2311 on amendment to article 9 of the Ukrainian Act on the licensing of certain economic activities is subject to voting. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:36:12]] For -14 The proposal is not supported. The proposal to overcome the veto of the President of Ukraine is put to the vote on the Ukrainian law on amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of economic activity on aviation industry. [[Registration number 2311]] I'd like to make a statement. [[17:36:50]] For 176 The decision is not taken. The law has been revoked. Dear colleagues, what can the committee do with the President's proposal to reject the law? You just said from the rostrum that you'd be ready to start a new project. You bring it in, the national MPs will look at it, and they'll get it. A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on State support for aircraft industry is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 2515]] Natalia Juryovna Kraljevska, please, from the committee. Your suggestions. Well, I've been informed that you're ready to present this bill from the committee. The author of the bill is Boguslaev.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u91	Well, I just want to. As will be the case with the rule of law, because we are here as the Second Committee. Without a report from the Main Committee, and without a report from the author of the bill. That is, as the committee that has considered this bill, we can express the position of our committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u92	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u93	Please. Dear colleagues, when it comes to industrial support, we understand that all industries and all businesses today, in times of crisis, cannot be supported. And there are enterprises that are hopelessly outdated, and there are industries that cannot compete with foreign producers. But neither is the case with Ukrainian aviation today. Ukrainian aviation has a huge potential, and this potential is directed towards the future, focusing on the most advanced technologies. Aviation is one of the few industries in Ukraine that today can produce high-tech products, competitive products not only in the 19th century but also in the 21st century. Take, for example, Motor-Sic. Here today, they are producing and developing excellent modern engines. Work is now under way to ensure that our aircraft are shipped abroad. It is planned to resume joint work with the Russian Federation on the production of the AN-70 military transport aircraft. All this is possible thanks to the support of the Government, due to the timely adoption of the anti-crisis programme. And today we have developed, together with the drafters of this bill, an anti-crisis law that we believe must be adopted on first reading. A working group was also set up to finalize the draft for second reading. But we believe this today is the kind of push that will allow our aviation market to continue to be a highly competitive market and actually play in the markets of the most highly developed and rich countries. And today, Ukraine will have to go the same way. And our enterprises still need a global-wide modernization. And it's about billions of dollars worth of dollars worth of money today. In addition, aviation is the key to modern technology today. Let us also bear in mind the social significance of the industry. Because there are 34 enterprises in this sector today, and one job creates 12 jobs in other machinery companies. Today, 70,000 people are involved in the aviation industry. All of this is well understood by the Government and we demonstrate our readiness to meet with the airlines to work with them during the crisis to develop written and correct anti-crisis bills for strategic industries. With a view to providing specific tangible support, the bill has been drafted by the authors of the bill. The adoption of the law does not require additional costs from the State budget, but it is also expected that the production of goods and the transfer of mandatory payments to Gosbuyt will increase by 2.5 times. I hope that thanks to our laws, Ukraine will not follow the deadlocked path of turning developed countries into commodities. And I hope that our country will preserve and support the development of high-tech industries. As a result, we will stand up and increase our share in high-tech marketing markets and increase our intellectual know-how. The Committee on Industrial, Regulatory Policy supports the adoption of the bill on first reading, with the establishment of a working group jointly with the Tax Committee. Mr. Terehin, and the finalization of this draft for second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u94	Thank you, Natalia Yuriovna. Please, question the reporter, let's write it down. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u95	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Natalia Yuriovna, as always, you spoke out brilliantly, but I do have a question. You agree that the changes to this law should be made to the tax system law, which in principle is in this law, although we know that it is written that the benefits cannot be established by other laws than the tax laws, the land fee, the single customs tariff law. Do you think a tax on added value or perhaps some other approach is on the committee of vision on this? Because we already have a valid law on state support for aviation industry, and as you look at whether or not you need to change the list, the government is already being removed from here. And who will then offer the list because the government adopted the program in 2008, the program by 2012, the strategy for the development of the domestic aviation industry, as you rightly said, and the praise of God.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u96	Thank you very much, Yuri Anatolyevich. Yes, the Cabinet of Ministers has indeed adopted a national aviation strategy and is making every effort to implement the strategy even during the crisis. As a result, aviation enterprises are developing today and are increasing production during the crisis. More than 50 per cent of the aviation industry today, compared to 2008, is carrying out its size, and this is indeed a good example when Ukraine is developing its high-tech productions. As far as depreciation is concerned, I support this rule. As far as the land tax is concerned, I also support this rule, because all major, large aircraft factories have their runways, it is a kilometer of coverage that is necessary for the conduct of experiments and for the installation of facilities. It is therefore necessary to adopt this at the legislative level. With regard to changes in the uniform customs tariff and value added tax, when importing spare parts, c.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u97	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u98	When I import equipment that is not produced in Ukraine, I also support such a rule, and I just need to clarify it in this bill. And you know that the first anti-crisis law we passed with you, and the President was committed, unfortunately today is a catastrophic constraint on modernization in our country, the introduction of new technologies -- equipment that is not produced in Ukraine, must go to Ukraine without additional duties and without paying the value added tax as prepayments. The Constitutional Court closed the Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u99	Bondarenko Volodymir Dmitrovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u100	Vladimir Bondarenko, Yuli Block Timoshenko, Reform Party and Order. Mrs. Natal, don't you want to be able to adopt this law in the first reading today, even in the absence of that Main Committee or its conclusion and author? It's about 4, 5 things that are understandable. First of all, today the aviation sector is really a sector that lives and develops in contrast to those that have turned factories into auto showrooms or banking offices. I think that today we need to establish order, to get that loans to this sector should be issued in a priority order, to think that the land allocations that are being used today should be released from the land tax in the option that there is. The VAT must be returned quickly so that the export product can rotate faster. And the critical import that is today -- it's not big, it's only 7-8 percent. Ninety-three percent of the plane is made up of our details in Ukraine. So that critical mass needs to be released from import taxes because it's small in production. Come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u101	I told you right away, I warned you. Thank you very much. My distinguished colleague, I have started by warning the Chamber that our committee cannot take full responsibility, I am a co-rapporteur and as co-rapporteur I am still explaining the basic rules of this bill today. And unfortunately, I cannot comment on why there is no author of the bill in the room and why there is no representative of the Main Committee, I am only bringing forward the position of the Committee, which is classified as industrial policy, as a whole, on aviation. Of course, we've worked very hard with the airlines on this issue and we've passed on this bill, and it needs to be finalized, but on the first reading it can be adopted and it's already been finalized for the second reading in sufficient detail. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u102	Kilincarov Spiridon Pavlovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u103	Natalya Juryevna, I have two questions for you. Question one. I don't understand how a bill that doesn't provide for State budget expenditure can seriously help the same aircrews. This time. And the second question. I would like to find out within the framework of the Government's anti-crisis programme whether it has been considered to provide support to the only enterprise in Ukraine in Soviet times that has provided 92 per cent of the shipments of heat throughout the entire Soviet Union to the “October Revolution” plant, which, at the advent of your bloc, has been without an investor to date and has a three-month salary debt to date. People don't get paid for three months. It is also a high-tech production that requires, including State support, given that the stock package is returned to the State in fact. I would like to know the position of your faction on this enterprise.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u104	Thank you very much. Of course, this issue has a very delicate bearing on the issue of aviation. We have an airplane, a steam facility, and we can discuss the construction immediately. I want to say about our factory, which you and I are like locusts, of course we are. And it is in principle for us today that this enterprise, which is the heart of the city of Luhansk, should work and, unfortunately, the investor has not paid wages in recent months. Unfortunately, the enterprise is in a very difficult financial situation. And today, the Government is doing its best to take all necessary measures and people have been paid in time and to work together, I believe that all political forces, the Lugans need to do strategic development, investment and reconstruction programmes. And here I consider the honour of the Lugani deputies to be accepted by all the branches of power, beginning with Parliament and ending with the Government.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u105	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u106	Our Lugano thermal power plant really had a perspective. We must jointly develop an anti-crisis programme, take the initiative of the Government, and the Government is today considering paying back value added tax in order to pay off the wage fund to the people. And I think it'll be done soon, and the salary will be paid. And then you and I will continue to consider an anti-crisis programme for this enterprise. The Lugano thermal power plant is indeed an enterprise that must receive all the necessary public support.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u107	Thank you. Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u108	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. I have the impression that soon the Lugani heat will fly, but I do not know where.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u109	Only thanks to the communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u110	Yeah, but we don't know where. And to you, Natalia Yuriovna, a specific question. I support Yuri Karmazin's thesis that, as always, a brilliant report, but there is one but. I cannot agree with your statement that the Law, which is called State Support, does not require State Budget expenditure. Then what is State support. There is no support and no support from the state budget. Moreover, article 3 says that annual government budget funds are needed to support those enterprises listed in the first paragraph. And in the first paragraph, 20 or 30 airlines are listed. So the law needs state support. But he also needs our support, and we need to support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u111	Thank you so much for asking, Adam Ivanovich. I agree with you that without public support today, it is difficult enough to survive in these conditions, in principle, the image of Ukraine throughout the world. That is why the strategic programme of the Cabinet of Ministers has been adopted. Therefore, the bill has also established a package of economic measures designed to stimulate the development of aviation and the support of our airlines. This is also the case with regard to depreciation rates, as regards land tax and import duty and value added tax. The package of incentives that we need to provide to our aircraft today will allow us to be competitive in technology, not in the twenty-first century, but in technology of the twenty-first century. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u112	Thank you, Natalia Yuriovna. Please sit down. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? Is it? Please sign up for the discussion. Please, Grenevetsky Sergey Rafailovich of the “Block of Lithuania” faction. Please turn on the microphone of the people’s deputy Greenewecki.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u113	Thank you. Greenewecki, Lithuanian Block. Dear colleagues, when we look at such bills, we need to understand that this is a budgeting sector, that it is a sector that can be competitive and have a perspective, so I think that by adopting this bill we should step forward, how we will form a state budget and how we will form a plan for the socio-economic and cultural development of our state. And in general, it's a shame that there really wasn't a committee head and a lead reporter, but what the head of the Committee on Industry has told us is very relevant and needs to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u114	Bondarenko Volodymir Dmitrovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u115	Thank you. Vladimir Bondarenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, Party “Reforms and Orders”. Ukraine is a great aviation nation. At the time of the collapse of the Soviet Union in the aviation industry of Ukraine, some 90,000 fellow workers worked. In particular, there are two serial plants in Ukraine: the Kyiv Aviation Plant and Kharkiv Aviation. An outstanding design office that makes the world’s best technology, especially heavy transport technology. Ukraine has a university – the Kharkiv Aviation Plant, the Kyiv Institute of Aviation Engineers, and today it is an aviation academy. There is also a specific branch that has unfortunately not been able to expand in Ukraine, such as helicopters, helicopters. This is the Zacarpathian Helicopter Plant, which unfortunately does not work, and the Konotapian Repair Plant. With such immense power, the State did not really, for a long time, provide assistance to this area. In particular, it's not money, it's not that important. They themselves are capable of earning and earning. Because today God's company exports huge numbers of engines. In particular, all Russian helicopters are equipped with our engines. But there are some points that have unfortunately been overlooked. This is the same land payment that should be considered specifically for airlines, because vast areas are occupied by the land, and when paid at those rates, like other companies, it will simply not be possible to make money, even on this land. And there's a problem, really, with that import. See, the plane in Ukraine has, and any plane has over a million details, the vast majority of them are produced in Ukraine from Ukrainian materials, consisting of basic Ukrainian but some elements of electronics, as well as other materials and compositions that need to be imported. And if today is the moment to impose import duties at the rates that there are, then the competitiveness of our aviation technology is also declining. There are other problems. And I would like to point out that this law really doesn't need direct financial flows, but it does create conditions for the aviation industry to continue producing and growing this technology, and also to compete with foreigners. We're successfully competing, our technology is being bought, and that's why VAT returns should be taken into account. In particular, Kyiv technology, in particular, is being successfully released in Iran today by KB Antonova, the established IR-AN plant that releases technology and we get huge money for actually sending technical equipment and the result of our engineering activities. So these proposals, which are in this law, absolutely need to be supported, this is a sector that needs to be carried out today, because it partially pulls out the entire industry of Ukraine. After all, it has been said that one job in the aviation industry provides another twelve jobs in the engineering and other areas of Ukraine. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u116	Ladies and gentlemen, I continue my evening plenary session until the conclusion of this debate. Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u117	Dear Alexander Vladimirović, distinguished colleagues! Indeed, thanks to the efforts of the current Government of Yulia Timoshenko, we can turn Ukraine into a commodity for Western countries. [[& Tiles]] We have units of high-tech enterprises working on the edge of scientific and technological progress that we need to support if we are really going to take Ukraine to the level of industrially developed States. It was regrettable that the previous bill had not been voted on, with the same reference to support for the aviation industry. It was the simplest, most common alphabet to avoid the possibility of “breeding offices”, which included a husband, wife, mother and dog, to repair the high-tech equipment of the aviation industry. You know, this reminds me of China 30 years ago with Mao Dadun's decision, let's make the whole world a metal. We're done! Fired! There was smoke all over the world, and there was no metal. And by the time smart Dan Xiao Pin came, everything was wiped out, and with high-tech equipment, China is now melting every second steel. A ton of peace, yes! We were on our way to what was in China 30 years ago, yes. The wife, the mother-in-law and the dog are going to fix it, there's going to be aircraft equipment. The second bill, which is now in the process of supporting the aviation industry, supports those unique enterprises that are working to make scientific and technological progress. Let's just give some miserable State preferences, let's just give them a little bit of support, because that's where we can make the breakthrough, and there's the points of breakthrough that can tear Ukraine out of this swamp, out of this shake, yes. I therefore propose to support this bill as a basis and then to finalize it very quickly and adopt it as a whole. This will indeed be an effective step by Parliament in supporting or transferring our economy to an investment and innovation model for development and in supporting industries that are working hard to achieve scientific and technological progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u118	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u119	Yury Karmazin Party of Fatherland Defenders of Our People's Self-Defense. Ladies and gentlemen, I see that, indeed, everyone is in pain. This law is, indeed, an anti-crisis law. And I've calculated that it refers to 27 businesses in Ukraine directly. This is clearly written in it. And really, how many people are there? Today, unfortunately, it is only about 100,000 people in employment. Why I say, for today's "all" day, because there have been cuts around. And I don't agree with the only speaker who today represents the so-called opposition force, in that he said that the government, this government, didn't pay attention to aviation. That's absolutely not true, absolutely not true. Because it was this government that adopted the strategy for the development of the domestic aviation industry by 2020 on December 27, 2008. And it was this government and the Prime Minister himself that promoted and promoted even on the African continent that promoted our aviation industry. It wasn't just words, it really was. So I propose to adopt this bill in the first reading. If there may be no comments, there may be a second, but there are major adjustments that apply to terms. Here's what's written in article 3, in article 3, is that for the period from 1 January 2008 to 31 December 2012. Clearly, it is necessary to write, from the moment the law becomes effective, and so on throughout the text. If they hear me right now, they're representatives of the committees that are responsible for this law. Otherwise, dear friends, what may have happened at one of Kiev’s largest factories, where there were 20,000 workers for 85 years, now there were 1,200. It was three months ago. But it's already 800 people, it's the Bolshoik factory. Please enjoy the production he is producing today. It's a product of pornographic content. This product is produced by the company “Vikon Plus”, which belongs to the deputy director of the plant “Bilšvik” Efremova, also owned by the company “Heat”, whose commercial is located there and so on. And this first deputy director at the factory didn't work for a day. I'm going to the Attorney General's Office, to the Ministry of Internal Affairs, don't look for anything, it's found on the Internet, I've seen what our factories are doing. It's a health plant called Bilshok, who knows, there wasn't one of them at this factory doing serious things. So, honourable national MPs, I'd like to ask you to support this bill. It makes sense not to mention the government badly where he did something, to thank him for it and to support the bill, and.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u120	Sebravsky Paul Ivanovich. The word is given by the national deputy of Zebravsky Paul Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u121	Dear colleagues, once we had a deputy member of the Chamber of Deputies, he said: “I am so ‘pro’ that I am ‘against’. And actually not to vote against this law, I don't think anyone will have a hand. Clearly, it is necessary to support a domestic producer -- one who works to give people a job that gives them a budget. But, my friends, today we're only talking about the airplane industry. What about other areas in a better condition? You'll see what's going on in the state. We pay for rail transport for some categories of production, for another, and we put all our burdens on others, and other sectors become uncompetitive. You have to be clear about the rules of the game in all areas of the economy, because if you're from somewhere, you're adding someone to it as a negative. Economics is a plus, economics is a profit. Today we're saying that there's no budget spending on airplane construction. Yes. There is no land payment, which means losing the local budget and many other issues that certainly affect budgets at different levels. I would like to point out, dear friends, that there was actually supposed to be an anti-crisis program here that would determine what would be the point of today's import-amine technology, import-amine production in Ukraine, not related, but reflector movements, like Pavlov's dogs: there was a painful reaction, there was a painful reaction, and there was a complex program. I think we've just been reflecting lately, and we're not doing anything systematic. The problem of the Ukrainian economy today is that we have a systemless job, both by enacting laws and by passing laws that are being passed today by both the Cabinet and the deputies. So the immobility, the headlessness of today, including ours, and that leads to us being like Trishkin Kaftan: from there we pull out -- there's the nakedness, there's the nakedness. Today, there are many generals from manufacturing, and everyone thinks, ‘ Why not build machinery? ’ Why Is It Not Made Today? Freg_02102*001*067&lt;18:06: 26&gt; The same ones at the Herson Combustion Plant, other factories. Why is there no system? I will certainly vote for this law, but a government that. The prime minister who wants to become president needs to understand and think about the system, not about sporadic movements. So I'm actually taking a systemic approach to the economy of Ukraine, and then in Ukraine there's going to be an order and there's going to be production, and there's going to be wages, and there's going to be raising social standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-17-m1.u122	Thank you, Mikola Ivanovich. The discussion is over. Dear colleagues! I am voting on the proposal for approval in the first reading on the basis of a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on State support for aviation industry. [[Registration number 2515]] I'd like to make a statement. [[18:07:33]] For 291 Decision taken. Please assist the profile committees in preparing for the second reading. I declare the evening plenary session closed. The morning plenary meeting will begin tomorrow at 10 a.m.
