ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:00:26]] There were 332 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to provide you with information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary meetings on 15 January 2009. 36 issues of the agenda have been considered. Of these, 19 bills, 12 draft regulations and proposals by the President of Ukraine to seven laws. As a result, 15 laws and 15 regulations were passed. One bill was adopted on the basis of one bill, and one bill was returned to the committee for further consideration, followed by a second reading. One bill and one draft decree have been rejected. According to the President of Ukraine's proposals, 2 laws have been passed taking into account the proposals of the President of Ukraine, 2 laws have been passed by the President of Ukraine, and one law has been rejected. Honorable national MPs, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules, take 30 minutes on Friday to announce their requests. I'm going to announce the questions that came from the national deputies of Ukraine. Alexander GROSKEVICH to the President of Ukraine on the need for amendments to Presidential Decree No. 1064/2008 of 21 November 2008 No. 1064/2008 on the proclamation of the natural Black Sea Aquarium by a botanical order for the state-wide value of the Filophorne Field of Zernov. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. Please vote. [[10:02:27]] For 193 Request supported. Please note, the proposal to refer the request to the President of Ukraine is now being made. Please vote. [[10:02:53]] For 305 Decision taken. VICTOR ALIEN to the Head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government, the Attorney - General of Ukraine, on the enforcement of legislation on local self - government by officials of the Ivanich district council of Volinsk. Jury CARMAZIN to the Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Finance and Banking, the Head of the National Bank, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Head of the Council of the National Bank of Ukraine, the Head of the State Committee on Technical Regulation and Consumer Policy on the Verification of Violations of Constitutional Rights of National Banking Investors as Consumers of Banking Services by Individual Directors of the Government Bank, the Bank of Kiev, the Bank of Ukraine, the Bank of Ukraine, the Office of the Prosecutor for the Renewal of Their Rights and the Indemnity of Individual Heads of the National Bank of Ukraine and the Council of the National Bank of Ukraine. Jury CARMAZIN to the Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget, Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Economics, Minister of Finance for the Search for additional sources of funding for the 2008-2012 Global Space Science and Technology Programme, which will prevent the destruction of new space technologies, save tens of thousands of jobs, prevent the departure of tens of thousands of highly qualified engineering workers abroad, which will save Ukraine's leading role in the space sector. Mr. Vladimir DANILENK to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the abuse of office as Head of the State Territorial and Sectoral Union of South-West Railway Alexia Krivopishini and on the conduct of a comprehensive audit of the financial and economic activities of this enterprise. Vladimir LEMZI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the clarification of the indicators of the Illjitian City Budget of the Odessa Region. Vladimir JAVORISKI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the protection of the labour force and director of the Smolin Mine for the mining of Uranium from the state-owned enterprise "East Mining Coal" in the Kirovograd region, where pressure is exerted because of their principle of position with regard to participants in a 360-metre-deep group theft of power cable, which led to the collapse of the mine cage and caused significant material losses to the enterprise. Edouard PRUTNIK to First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Ministry of Health of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Minister of Finance for the Family, Youth and Sports, Head of the Ministry of Health of the Chernigian District Administration, Head of the District Government Administration of Montenegro, Head of the State Inspectorate for Medical Quality Control, Head of State Inspectorate of the Ministry of Health of the Ministry of Health of the Republic of the Republic of Ukraine for quality control of medical devices regarding the need for urgent measures to ensure the provision of medical supplies to the field of health care and the pharmacy of the Korop region of Montenegro for the purpose of preventing the influenza epidemic among schoolchildren and creating adequate conditions for the provision of medical supplies to the rural pensioners. Mr. Edouard PRUTNIK to the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Ukraine for Family, Youth and Sports, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Minister of Culture and Tourism of Ukraine, Head of Culture and Tourism of the Chernigiv District Administration, Acting Head of the Sosnic District Government Administration of the Chernigiv Region for the use of measures for the capital repair of the district stadium in the village of the town-type Sosnica of Chernigiv Region and the planning of measures to mark the 115th anniversary of the birth of Mr. Alexander Duzhenk. OXANI BILOSIR to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the reasons for failure by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to comply with the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian National Pension Insurance Act on the Payment of Pensions to Ukrainian Citizens residing abroad. Mr. Alexander DONI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the lack of response to the parliamentary address addressed to the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine to Ivan Vakarczuk. Alexander KEMENYASA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to improve the settlement mechanism resulting from floods in the Zakarpatsky region from July 23 to 27, 2008. JOURIA DORCHEN to the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine for the financing of the construction of a district cancer dispensary in Herson. Group of People's Deputies to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on ignoring the requirements of the Ukrainian Higher Education Act and the abuse of authority by the Minister of Education and Science, John Vakarczuk. [[COMARA, PAVLENA, only 8 deputies]] Group of National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on ignoring the requirements of the Ukrainian Higher Education Act and the abuse of authority by the Minister of Education and Science, John Vakarczuk. [[THE TABLET, THE DOVE, ONLY 10 REPRESENTATIVES]] Mr. Andrija PAVLOWSKOVSKE to the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine for the protection of the housing rights of citizens of the house on the street of Gorkovka, 42 in the city of Borispoli in the Kyiv region, and for the proper implementation of the Ukrainian Ministry of Defence's State Enterprise. Vasil GREECE to the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine on the facts that indicate that a group of officials of the Presidential Secretariat and the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine and members of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine have been misled by the decision of 7 November 2008 and Presidential Decree No. 1054-38t/2008 of 18 November 2008. Igor JERESIAH to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine regarding the improper consideration of the MP’s appeal against the execution of judicial decisions by officials. Irina BELOWS to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine on support for the work of the rehabilitation centre of the Chernobyl Regional Association of the Blind. Mikoli KULČINSKI to the Ministry of Internal Affairs on the re-establishment of the criminal case by the authorities in the fight against organized crime, the district prosecutor's office on the fact that the property of the children's health camp "Wolzka", located in the village of Golovac, the Poltava district of Poltav. Mr. Mikoli Shershun to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Minister of Housing and Utilities of Ukraine, for the purpose of paying off the debt from the construction of a high-pressure underwater pipeline to the village of Mirne Kostopil district of the Plain region. Mikoli Sherschun to the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to address the situation of bank increases in interest rates on loans. OXANI BILOSIR to the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine on the issue of a potential threat to the health and life of citizens, as well as on the possibility of a severe deterioration in the crime - related situation in Ukraine in connection with the Ministry of Internal Affairs’s intention to grant Ukrainian citizens the right to acquire weapons of trauma. Ms. Aleksandra ŠEPELEVA to the Ministry of Health regarding the failure to pay for the provision of medical services in the city of Kyiv. Stepan DAVIMIKI to the Acting Head of the Ukrainian Security Service for the unlawful actions of individuals of the Ukrainian Security Service in the Lviv region of Miroslav Senkowa and Rostislav Voronowski. Vassila GREECEA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on violations by officials of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine of the Ukrainian Act "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine". Vassila KRAVČUKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the activities of the National Credit Share Bank branch in the city of Polonne Hmělnické district regarding the payment of the funds to pensioners and investors. VICTOR SINCHENKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the misconduct of the head of the Kyiv Regional Association of Consumers of Vladimir Pak to the Cogarlic Regional Consumer Society of the Kyiv Region. Vladimir DANILENA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the prohibition of the dissemination of pornographic information in Ukraine through the global Internet. GREGORY OF OMELČENKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the improper execution by the Attorney General of Ukraine of the requirements of paragraph 2.8.15 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine in response to the parliamentary request of 19 December 2008 on the submission of the Attorney-General of Ukraine to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for consent to the arrest of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Bogdan Hubsky, and the reasons for the withdrawal of this application. Mikoli KULCHINSKI to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the actions of the former management of the Open Shareholders Association of Chernigiv Radio Devices aimed at bankrupting this plant, which is strategically important for the economy and security of the state. Jurya KOSTENKA to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on dissatisfaction with the reply to the MP's request to violate the current Ukrainian legislation in transforming Nadra Ukraine into the National Shareholder Company. LITHUANIA’S Jury to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the protest of the Cabinet of Ministers Decision No. 1029 of 26 November 2008 on the purchase of license plates for vehicles. LITHUANIA’S Jury to the Attorney General for the lack of effective supervision by the prosecutor’s authorities. Alexander ŠEPELEVA to the city’s Kiev head on the urgent solution to the heat supply problem in Kiev. Ladies and gentlemen, all 35 requests that have come to the Secretariat and have been properly formulated have been made. At the same time, I appeal to the Apparatus and the Secretariat to have them exercise strict control over the answers to parliamentary requests. And I would particularly like to point out that often the answers to parliamentary questions come from the signatures of the wrong person to whom they were directed. Such answers should return and require that the answer be only from those to whom they are directed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'm not talking about the content of the answers. Dear National Deputies, the meeting schedule for January 16, 2009, which is agreed upon by the Conciliation Council, is given to you. I ask you to sign up for five minutes to exchange your thoughts on how to organize our work today. Please sign in. Names of the National Deputies, please take them to the board. National Deputy Stishenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u2	Please pass the word to John Grigorovich Kirilenko, the head of the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u3	Ivan Kirilenko, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! We maintain the order of the day that was formed today. We maintain the order of the day, which is today formed and distributed to the deputies. We'll have one request, two requests, more loyal. First. The commission’s head, who will report on Ternopol, will request that the report be postponed in connection with the new circumstances, and they will require further study, and that the report be deferred for the next plenary week. We would be asked to support, put to the vote, this is the proposal. And the second. We agreed yesterday with our colleagues from the Party of Regions to consider two bills. One of them examined and was fully supported by our faction. And the second is considered only in the first reading, despite the fact that the committee’s decision was that in both the first and the second readings. Yesterday there was one principle of agrarianism: the deadline for full payment to the Pension Fund. Let me finish?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u5	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u6	We had appropriate consultations with the government, with the Ministry of Profiles, and we received full support that this amendment could be voted positive in the Hall, that is, removed from the rule of law. Leave the previous payment regime to the Pension Fund for agrarians. And this law could be passed in general, Volodymyr Mikhailovich. The faction insists on the fact that we had an agreement with our colleagues, to support the proposal to consider in the second reading this law, which received only one amendment in the hall. Please, let's put it up, let's vote. Thank you. The committee's decision is.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u7	Yuri Karmizin, faction “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u8	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies, is scheduled for plenary next week. And I would like to stress two things, because if there are such circumstances that the President of Ukraine matures before submitting the release of the Head of the National Bank of Steel, we will need to meet immediately in the session mode to hold this meeting so as not to allow further collapse of the bracelets. That's the first one. I also ask that protocol be given to the relevant committees that have to monitor and monitor this issue at all times. And I ask you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, in talking to the President of Ukraine about this subject, because it concerns the entire adult population of Ukraine today. That's the first one. And the second. The statements in London surprised me a little bit, we're ready to pump gas for free, and we're also going to give the committees a proper commission to inform the Supreme Council later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u9	Sergey Larin, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u10	Please pass the word to Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u11	Alexander Efraemov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u12	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, we are once again witnessing when the coalition, claiming that it is necessary to work very seriously in the Ukrainian legislative field, does not put any law in the sessional room that is today anti-crisis. I'm drawing your attention, Vladimir Mihajlovich, including when you joined the Speaker's office, you said there was an anti-crisis program that we've never seen in this room before. And no one knows what this secret anti-crisis program is, which can eventually be adopted in the sessional room. Today, once again, we are considering laws, we will say, normal laws, but not the first importance of these bills. We proposed that next week, given the strain of the situation in our State's economy, the social sphere should work in plenary. You refused. We refused.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u13	Give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u14	We think that this has been done consciously because all obstacles are being made today to prolong the gas crisis. And the new conditions that Ukraine has put forward in the alternative to Russia to hold a summit in Kiev or Poland are a mere misunderstanding among business leaders who are stopped and who do not have gas. And the Government's statement that we are fully secured by the gas component is simply a misunderstanding, because it is already starting to shut off whole areas of heat during the day, and it is only warm at night. A few more days of such management on your part, and the country will indeed be in ruin. We would therefore ask that you return to the plenary next week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u15	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u16	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! More and more, I believe that this turn of events at the beginning of each day of the Supreme Council's plenary work gives nothing for the legislative, legislative work. It seems to me that we need to work in a peaceful manner on a daily basis, especially since there are bills that are subject to the legislative initiative that representatives are practically, not practically, but all the factions that are in Parliament. And also, Vladimir Mikhailovich. It seems to us that our faction seems that the misunderstanding, again, is the product of the fact that we do have the Supreme Council Rules temporary. We today have every reason for this to be an iron concrete law. We overcame the President's veto on the Supreme Council Rules. It seems to us that signing this law will make all these misunderstandings impossible, and every day we will be very constructive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u17	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u18	Basically, I'm done. I just think it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u19	Thank you. Danilenko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u20	Please pass the word to Peter Mikolaiovich Simonek.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u21	Peter Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u22	Respectable colleagues. Simonenko, the Communist faction. We propose to consider and listen to the Commission's final report, which has studied the problems of vaccination of our children. And we are surprised, in the Communist faction, to say the least, why the issue is being blocked and why the Commission's final report is not being heard. Maybe someone's benefiting again and someone's involved and you don't want to listen to what they're involved in. The Communist faction demands that this situation on the death of our children, with the machinations of the people who have sworn to Hippocrates, and in this case, by adhering to the plight of the people, earn millions at the death of our children. And it is surprising that just this final report is being blocked. I would like to ask you, Vladimir Mihajlovich, to take personal control of the Commission's report. They're ready to report. Like many other questions. That's why the Communist faction is asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u23	Allow me to finish the speech. Are you all right, Peter Mikolaiovich? Thank you. Dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts. Now for the suggestions. John Grigorovich Kirilenko’s proposal regarding the report of the commission of inquiry dealing with problems in Ternopol. Dear colleagues, this question was agreed upon at the Conciliation Council. If there is such an offer, I will put the matter to a vote when we come to the table: the postponement of the consideration. Will the Supreme Council support it? It'll hold. He'll be fine. It won't help. We'll look into it. But I would just like to pay attention there to the draft decree, not to read everything else. And we will vote only on the ruling proposed by the interim commission of inquiry. All other decisions will not be taken in this regard. We work in the regulatory field. I wanted to calm you down in this regard. As for the bill that was adopted yesterday in the first reading, but in order to adopt it definitively as a law, you know, according to the Rules, if there is a denial of at least one MP, you have to consider it. The Supreme Council may have the task of shortening the process of preparation for second reading. Therefore, since we have agreed that we will not violate the Rules, I ask then John Grigorovitch Kirilenko: If the signatures of the five factions and the agreements that were reached yesterday for mutual support are fulfilled. We will consider this bill, for apparently colleagues, if they have agreed to introduce two laws and adopt them, they have these obligations to carry out. But at the same time, I'd like to take a quick look at the comments that have been made and accept the recommendations. It's a violation. Dear colleagues, please. And we're not breaking the Rules. We agreed to the Conciliation Council, we work exclusively in the Rules. Please forget about the violation for a while, and then as God will give it to you. Regarding the suggestions made by Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, I ask that you prepare appropriate written references and assignments. With regard to Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov's proposal regarding the anti-crisis programme, we agreed, in principle, that we would consider, including the responsibility of the government in accordance with the regulatory procedure. I think that in the next plenary week, we need to put in place a government action programme and look at it so that all the issues that the Supreme Council has taken a definite decision can be removed. As for the proposals for plenary work, please make an appropriate decision, the Supreme Council. Consider it now, on the committee, during the break and the Supreme Council will probably come back to that question. But let's stop blaming each other. I'm just suggesting, the Supreme Council, I want to remind you, it works in plenary mode, so it works without closing the session, until 3rd, I emphasize, by February 3, inclusive. On February 3rd, we will start a session, close the work of the previous session, and announce the start of a new session. So we're working on committees, if there's a problem, we need a high level of readiness for the bill. I would ask you not to block the work of committees and prepare information, and we will publish it, which committees worked and who participated in the committee work. If they didn't work, why didn't they show up, and that'll take down all the questions in the session room and in the community. Regarding Oleg Zarubinski's proposal, I would like to inform you, honourable colleagues, that on 26 January, Ukraine's law “On the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine” will be signed and promulgated. I asked the President of Ukraine to sign it immediately, or on 26 January he would be published at the signature of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Under any circumstances, the decision will be made. Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko's proposal regarding the report of the Kramatorski Commission. Is that what I'm saying? No commission, it sounded like a report. I ask the Regulatory Committee to deal with this proposal, and I will sign a written request for us to decide for the next plenary week on this issue. Thus, honourable colleagues are called upon to consider the issue first — the report of the Temporary Investigation Commission on Ternopol. But, please note, there was a proposal, including a written proposal, and now a proposal has been made to postpone consideration of the matter in response to the need to complete the work. Whether or not to quit the commission. Please, Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u24	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! Well, since morning, the red phone has been ringing from Ternopol, asking to consider the results of the commission today. There's no life there! People are crying, they're moaning! And here they're specifically stalling, someone said they're trying to take the town of Ternopol to the ground. Consider immediately and decide on what the Commission has drawn up. The approach was completely objective, correct, fair, and I think the hall is set. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u25	Dear colleagues and Mikhail Vasilovich! Dear colleagues, if the Supreme Council of Ukraine does not support the withdrawal from the agenda for today, we will have to consider. But what I'd like to say is that we're already in a very difficult conflict there, and we've decided on the temporary election of the district council. And there, you know, two territorial commissions now appear, there's a whole war going on, and there's a completely paralyzed whole government. So I would ask this commission, obviously, if a decision on the transfer of work is supported, the transfer of consideration of this issue, so that they can study this issue and give us appropriate recommendations, because in fact the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is blocked. Now, if you'll excuse me. I am voting on the postponement of the consideration of the question – a report by the Ukrainian High Council of Inquiry on facts, violations of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Code of Land, other laws of Ukraine by the Ternopil City Council, failure by the courts to comply with their decisions on the removal, transfer, use of land, as well as on official abuse in the management of municipal property and the inaction of the prosecutor's authorities on violations of Ukrainian legislation in the activities of the City Council. Please vote [[10:30:17]] For – 237 Decision taken. I ask the Committee on Rules of Procedure, on MP ethics, on the organization of the work of the Supreme Council to decide on the next plenary Friday when we meet, on what report will be considered, and on this commission first. Dear colleagues, I did not do another duty, did not make an announcement. Please listen to the announcement. In accordance with article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, and according to the minutes of the parliamentary faction meeting of the "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" of 16 January 2009, I am informing you of the election of the new leadership of the faction, namely: the head of the deputy faction of the "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense", elected the national deputy of Ukraine, Martinenko Mikolomirovich; the deputy heads of the faction "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" elected the national deputies of Ukraine, Knjazevič Ruslan Petrovic, Steckov Tarasa Stepanović, Tarasuk Boris Ivanovic, Trityakov Aleksandra Juriovic. [[Applause]] The report of the interim commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the facts of the violation of the Ukrainian Constitution, the Ukrainian Code of Land. Other laws of Ukraine. I'm sorry, we've already asked that question. The report of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the situation of violations of the Constitution of Ukraine and the legislation of Ukraine by Sevastopol State Administration and the Sevastopol City Council, other executive authorities on land relations issues, as well as on the abuse of services and the theft of state funds in carrying out the socio-economic development programme of Sevastopol. The spokesman will be the head of the Temporary Investigation Commission, Ivan Vasilovich Vernidubov. The Commission is proposing - please note, fellow Members, we will now agree on the rules - this is the order for consideration: to report to the head of the Interim Investigation Commission - for up to 20 minutes; to answer questions and questions - for up to 10 minutes; to speak to the Ukrainian National Deputies - for up to 20 minutes and to make a decision, well here, I think we need within 3-5 minutes. In five minutes, some questions may arise. No warning? Should I vote? Let's vote, who's behind this rule of procedure? He goes slightly beyond the scope of reporting to the head of the Temporary Investigation Commission – within 20 minutes, questions and answers to the rapporteur – 10 minutes, speeches by the national deputies – 20 minutes, discussion and decision-making – 5 minutes. Please vote. [[10:33:32]] For 340. Decision taken. Ivan Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u26	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Your consideration is suggested by the conclusions and suggestions of the Interim Commission of Inquiry on the situation of violations of the Constitution of Ukraine and legislation by the Sevastopol local authorities and self - government. The Commission worked in strict compliance with Parliament’s mandates and regulatory requirements. The written report is given on October 8th, or in a fixed term. The Supreme Council’s task of determining the circumstances of the violations was to determine the extent to which time allowed. With openness and transparency, the commission has great support for the inhabitants of Sevastopol. I will point out that the committee understands that these conclusions and proposals, unfortunately, cannot be decisive for the investigation and the court. In no way, however, it is necessary to point out openly from this high rostrum that public uncontrolledness and indifference in the city of Sevastopol have also in fact caused absolute contempt of state authority. The Commission considers that the Sevastopol post office of the President of Ukraine, under the leadership of Kunicin Sergey Volodymyrovich, is effectively ignoring the city’s current mouth and the legal requirements of the community, imposing its already tested corruption schemes for the city’s viability in Crimea. In my brief words today, I would like to draw your attention to, indeed, the serious problems that there are in the state, without emotion, and to try to answer the question: could there ever be such a thing in society, or could there be huge groups of people united by the State, and could there be serious talk in this case about statehood, if the theft of budget funds in the size of Sevastopol and the sale of land by hundreds of hectares of national wealth without counting any amount into the budget have a place in other regions of Ukraine, then why do these games deceive people about the lack of budgetary resources on pensions, wages, medicine, heat and so on. Billions of dollars are stolen! That's what the President knows, but the President is silent. If even after receiving today's Supreme Council ruling, they don't come to any conclusions, I have to admit, on the basis of a particular fact about Sevastopol, we will continue to beg for that power, allowing those in the same power to bathe with impunity in millions of dollars, and millions of people, our fellow countrymen, there is nothing to expect from such, with the permission to say, a state with such statesmen. If we cannot organize a fair distribution of national wealth, I think there are two ways out: one pessimistic – brothers and voluntary surrender to any neighbouring state, because they care for the welfare of people, there is order, statesmen understand each other and really fight corruption, which they stubbornly do not want to see in their “lovers” subordinates our high leaders of the state. And the other way out is to take a pitchfork and fight this mob. And closer to the report. You remember that the commission was created not because there was a violation, but because of all these violations, all the crimes were known by the President, who was approached by the Sevastopol City Council after all the legitimate ways of influence that the Sevastopols had tried -- these are rallyings, these are crumbs, these are famines, these are the end-of-life polls of the Sevastopol City Council after questioning the public opinion of the Sevastopol City Council for more than two-thirds of the votes expressed mistrust by Kunicin Serge Volodymirovich, which is the basis of an immediate resignation under the Constitution of Article 118. But the appeal of the city to the President as a guarantor of the Constitution for the resolution of the conflict remained essentially unanswered. Balog replied that only the district council or the district council could express mistrust to the head of the local administration. That means the city council has no authority to express mistrust to the head of the local administration. And about what to do with the corruption team of Kunicina, the head of the Crimean ‘EC’ party of Balog as the main active person of the ‘EC’ party, did not recommend anything, nor did he inform why the letter from the constitutional body of the Sevastopol region had not been reported to the President and he had not personally responded to it. Conclusion one: The President's Administration and its own administration are responsible for the city's lawlessness and corruption of the Kunicin team. And don't believe it after that, Kunicin, when he threatens TV screens in Sevastopol, to tell us about the bribes he has to take to the city of Kiev. I don't know, really, without irony, I'm saying who's in charge of Banking or Viktor Ivanovich, or Viktor Andryovich, but, I'm asking you, just get rid of this burden, it's going to discredit your authority, it's going to lead, really, to that Victor Ivanovich, I think that the main active person there, that precise aphorism, that forecast of the people, that the rhyming of your party will lead to a sharper start than you think. Specifically. Presidential decree of Ukraine 1.06.2006 appointed Kunicin, head of the Sevastopol State Administration, a resident of Simferopol, in the past Prime Minister of Crimea. He brought with him the so - called team of three deputies, including the first, other executives, secretaries, drivers, and bodyguards. In the Ryder way, control of the CrimeO Project was established. Under the roof of the “Criminal Project”, which has become essentially a private structure, the Land Administration, the Land Cadastre Management, Ukrainvestexpertism, the State Architectural and Building Control, which actually have central subordination. And the main link in this multi-stage scheme was the handover of Kunicin to the private structure of the “Criminoproject”, already captured by his group, by the authority of the territorial project organization. In the hands of Kunicina and Gres, all the possible activities of the construction sector were focused: landbuilding, design, copyright and technical supervision, all the stages of expertise, and the agreement of the project documentation with the administration. Illegally possessing Sevastopol’s master plan, which is the property of the Sevastopol community, the structures associated with the Crimino Project are increasing, setting huge monopolistic prices. Thus, direct corruption schemes are being created and conditions are being created to encourage corruption, causing financial damage to the state, as well as moral damage to the prestige of the public authorities in the eyes of the citizens of Sevastopol. In particular, the next issue in the field of land relations is how land dispossessing is done. For the purpose of repairing the system’s business, a simple scheme was put in place for the land trade. The house of the privatized “Criminal Project” is scrutinized with a wide variety of land, thoroughly inspected through the Land Administration, the land cadastre, its history. Project organizations prepare a project for its development, forgetfulness, and then their firm asks the state government to give it the site to build and make a superficies agreement with it instead of, say, turning to the auction commission or local self-government. The administration refuses to do so on the basis of illegal formal reasons that could easily be challenged in a court of law. And the firm goes to its 7th - grade courts, which are very quick to make decisions, and they are obliged by the administration to make a deal with the firm about the areas, under conditions offered by the plaintiff, and even with a ridiculously priced lease on land. All the initial requests from enterprises for land allocations are considered in one or two days. Remember how our deputies Bevanko and Oleg Lazko said that for six months it would take a turn to get 10 hundred of their legal ones. Here, in violation of the law, these appeals are not addressed to the department that is directly involved in these appeals, and all the answers are prepared directly by the assistant Kunicina, who is not in the circle of his powers. Here's a pattern. And what's interesting. Already in the midst of the commission’s work in the summer, the decision of the local administration is demonstrated by the court, of course, to give the lasagna much of the most attractive territory of Laspas 21 hectares [21 ha] of the Black Sea coast into the hands of a small-scale company created in Eupatoria. Of course, the court had a clear decision to make, and the Zitz president, the first deputy of Kunicina, had made a contract that had been offered to him and thus the last 20 acres [20 ha]. A total of more than 300 acres [300 ha] in this way, without a penny in the budget, it's been drained. I understand, and you understand how and where the money went. And counting how much money that is, I don't know, but of course it's billions. After the entry into force of the law, the shortest possible period of time, the administration carries out judges ’ decisions, which signify promotion, of course. The second question is the direction of budget disbursing: it is the abuse of the service and the dissipation of budgetary resources in the construction of urban socio-economic development sites. Our request was examined by the National Court of Auditors of Ukraine. I would like to express from this high rostrum the gratitude of the House of Accounts of Ukraine, which is the only one that can be said, from the central organizations located in Kiev, we can be proud of our House of Accounts, because it has courageously given, regardless of its appeal, normal conclusions -- those that were needed objectively, coming out of the situation in the city. Thus, the Court of Auditors’ firm conclusion states that the total number of violations of the law is estimated at 46.3 million. That's right. One can conclude that direct thefts without any investigation amounted to more than 17 million. Money, because that's 17 million dollars. He is, of course, the head of the capital - building department. Twice there was a record of corruption by the police on this official, but the courts, as in the corruption schemes of the land, did not decide whether to recognize him as a corrupter. The Public Prosecutor’s Office had something to say in such a judgment. I will say one thing so that I don’t have to talk about these thefts for a long time: they are being exploited even in distress. When the disaster occurred in late 2006, an extraordinary situation arose on the lake sewage treatment plants, a government commission that acknowledged that it was necessary to build sewage collectors immediately, four items from the Janukovic Reserve Fund of the State had been allocated 9 million. I tell you that in December 2008, Malishev, chief of Uxa, reported that all the funds had been recovered, reported here to Kabmin that all the funds had been spent, but no object had been delivered, and so far it had not been surrendered and planned to build, and the money had been stolen. And the law enforcement agencies, and first of all the prosecutors, don't see the damage to the state. But that is not all. The Commission clearly concludes that, as a result of the irregularities committed in the use of the State Budget Reserve and the failure to implement the planned facilities in 2007, 230 inhabitants of the city of Sevastopol remain at risk of ending drinking water supply — 70 percent of the city’s population. The management of capital construction, despite receiving 8.9 million sums of money in full volume, has not given way to any of the four facilities in use. I say again, and they're not going to give up. Money is being stolen, and nothing is being built. The third direction, so to put it, is the waste of the funds that should belong to the Sevastopol community, which is in the sphere of activity and development of the social and engineering infrastructure of the city of Sevastopol, at the expense of the involvement of the builders. You know, over the last few years, there's been a construction boom in the city. Overall, in 2007 alone, more than 121 and a half thousand square feet [121,000 sq m] of total housing were introduced. The core funds are worth 297 million. You know, there's order, there's law: 10 percent give up where you're building, the builder, the infrastructure of the city. See, after calculating 10 percent of this amount, the city should have received at least 29 million dollars. In fact, only 6 million. The lack of funding to the local budget is similarly due to the fact that the objects are made operational without the conclusion of rations contracts or without the fulfilment of obligations under the contract in part of the fee. According to the written testimony of Kunicina and the head of the management of Ahtimov's economy, social infrastructure development, such as the Consol company, which provides at least 25 percent of the buildings in the city, has not been contracted. What more evidence is needed? I don't know, for example. The Commission notes that there are many abuses with signs of corruption in this area, and believes that in this case we should also continue to work, continue the work of the commission. It should be noted that during the work of the commission, the head of the Sevastopol City State Administration, Kunicin, did not appear to meet with the commission, nor did he appear at the invitation of the commission to carry out individual investigations, nor did he contribute to the commission’s work. His subordinate, the head of the Mališev Capital Construction Authority, one of the central figures of the budget dissipation, did not conduct himself honestly and did not provide the documents necessary for the verification. As I did not give them to the account room and to the law enforcement authorities at all. As a result of the work, the commission on the two pages made a proposal, a project that is offered to you. First, take note of the previous report and send it to the President of Ukraine, the government and the competent authorities to consider and take appropriate action, secondly, to continue the work of the commission, thirdly, to take into account the urgent problem of the city, to adopt a parliamentary decision at the fourth session on the legislative definition of Sevastopol's special status. I'm asking you, Your Honor, to support such a draft decision, but at the end of the report, I want to say that there would be no looting of land without the support of the courts of corruption. I'd like to say that in this case, Judge. Individual judges of the household courts, primarily Crimea, have become just a separate link to this criminal scheme. Their actions, according to the competent experts, include lawyers, the composition of crime, the unjust decision-making process, the 375th Penal Code. And somehow they don't want to see it in law enforcement. Because an absurd decision, a delusional decision as to how the last one is a 20-acre manhupe, was brought to justice in the summer. They tell stories, they write paragraphs, they write articles, they write lectures in decisions that have taken place. But these decisions are made not by the courts, but by these frauds from this criminal group, and they tell us about some superficies, but according to the law, it's simply that if you don't want to make a treaty, one of the principles of civil justice is freedom of contract. [[Article 3]] If the city administration doesn't want to make an agreement on land for construction, no one can make it, that's what we know. The Constitution. The 19th says that everyone has to do this, no one can make them go against the law. And here I am proud and proud of those who did all the work in Lviv on these judges, but it's a long time to figure it out. I have, I have the legal analysis of these judges. If law enforcement is interested in receiving official material from the Supreme Council, please come, I'll give you these tests if you don't see any signs of crime there. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u27	Dear colleagues, the report is closed, please sign up for a question to our colleague. That's how the recording works. Names on the board, please. National MP Gordienko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u28	Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Please pass the word to Matthew Valentine Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u29	Valentin Grigorovich Matviev.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u30	Thank you. Dear Ivan Vasilovich! In general, in your report, you spoke of the numerous facts of the corruption of Kunicin and his team. And there was no doubt about that in your report, the TSC report. However, if this is possible today, please provide specific facts of abuse, because what you were talking about, even as far as three hundred acres [300 ha] of land, who specifically, in what way, when, and to whom did you sell it? Please expand our view in this direction. And not only the inhabitants of Sevastopol but also the citizens of Ukraine should know about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u31	Let me get this straight. Over the period 2007-2008, the minimum plot, which I have already mentioned, is 0.20, i.e. 20 hundred, and the maximum plot is 180 hectares. The rest of the plots are 20, 5 and so on. This is in the area, for example, of Cape Sarac, the southernmost point not only of Ukraine, but also of the entire Soviet Union. Four hectares off the sea itself -- these are the criminal schemes used by ships to give to the firm, and you think, for example, what is the annual fee, if, for example, in 0.5, I know, for parking cars, 19 grand a month, and here for four hectares, 8,000 bracelets a year. That's how they paid for it. But that's not even the problem. I'm sure we'll take all these lands. Well, one judge sold there, one judge sold in Crimea, yes. Well, we'll get what we can through the Supreme Court, but they don't have land. You know, the firm bought something out there, they took it out of Simferopol's drunk passport, they took it, the company disappears. Reselled, reselled. There are already owners in Britain of these lands. I don't know what we're gonna look like at the world level. That's more.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u32	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u33	I'm saying that this is where the Black Sea fleet's land comes in. Do you understand? There may be a conflict here, as in Georgia, because I have the answers of the Navy commander: “We will not give back the lands that Kunicin has already sold, because they are ours.” What does that mean, “no surrender ”? They're armed men. Do you understand? Of course, Russia is outraged by such facts.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u34	People's deputy Leluk, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u35	Dear Ivan Vasilevich, the facts that you have given are truly striking. Tell me, please, is the violation not just about the executive branch? That's what I understand, and so is the judiciary. In doing so, you and I may be agreeing with tens of judges every month in these walls for a lifetime of duties, and we are firing, in fact, units. You can give specific examples and name specific names of judges who have committed such illegal acts.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u36	Finally, I can. Thousands of them, I don't know, give me time, it'll take half a day, at least. But I do. The militia, thanks to her, is launching, for example, 7 criminal cases on land in Sevastopol. See, on one and the other occasions, the decision to bring the case before the judges of the Lenin Court of Central Sevastopol is repealed. I mean, there's paralysis, there's paralysis in the investigation. The appeal is dismissed four times. But if four different judges are interested in a person, who is the president of the court? What's the big deal? Is there something wrong here? Yeah? The President of the court has been a retired woman for about 20 years. Is that what What kind of demand? I'm surprised why the judges' boards, disciplinary boards, qualification commissions look at it and everything works out.Oh, my God! But you can't make fun of an investigation like that! Why is it that we will immediately be able to decide in Parliament that it has been mistakenly recognized that the decision to institute a criminal case where the investigations have already taken place cannot be removed from the legal perspective. The case can only be closed. We can't cancel. Because there was an investigation, there were investigative actions, there was a warrant for the cause as an accused and so on. But of course.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u37	National Deputy Vasilyev faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u38	Dear Ivane Vasilovich, please tell us what part of the legal service of Sevastopol City Administration illegally alienating the land in Sevastopol? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u39	Well, I told you, but you know, here's their position. Mol, what are you giving us up for giving up land? He's making us do it. He's making us do it. But no, no one has the right to make a commitment. They are themselves, his group, that's what the privatized project is, that's what it's all about, that's what it's all about, that's what it's about. I've already told you about the schematic. All right. A court decision is coming. But the Constitution says no one has the right to do what you can't do. And article 3 of the Civil Code, Freedom of the Treaty. If I'm a representative of the landowner, how's the guard, you know? It turns out that they've got guards guarding the facility, there's bandits coming in, and he's helping them. Here too. Administration's helping bandits pick up land instead of what to do? To refuse to enter into a contract, to challenge the court's illegal decision, to seek an appeal, cassation, to beat the alarm that if there's a loophole in the law, let's change what to do, i.e. you're the guardian of the State, I understand. Article 19 of the Constitution states that public husbands must protect both national wealth and so on. However, that is not the case. Here's their role. They are the initiators of these criminal schemes, not defenders of the interests of the State and the community of Sevastopol.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u40	Jokes conveys the right to ask Michael Chestnut.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u41	Dear Ivan Vasiljevic, we all know that in the Soviet Union, the city of Sevastopol's military glory was a model city, a model city, a clean vessel, a receptacle. Corruption. Today, the city of Sevastopol is headed by President Yushchenko of Ukraine through his head of administration. Everything has changed: the city is polluted by corruption, dirt, and the vacchanals are simply impossible to live there. It's embarrassing. The only thing that the President of the Saratov City Council is struggling with, but not able to do so, is to put order in place, and we must help. But I already have information that courts go completely under the administration. Is this how corruption is intertwined, even in the judiciary? The President's Administration or the local administration has already ordered the courts to decontaminate the land and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u42	Thank you for asking. Unfortunately, this is actually a public problem, but I really don't think there is one in other areas. You see, I shouldn't have said introductory words that I brought in from Crimea. There were not one or two criminal cases behind Kunicin. And there were hundreds of millions of missing bracelets. But a man left, not caught, not a thief. That's why he's here, too. There's a saying, according to his subordinates, that Kunicina was never taken down. He didn't take it down, he didn't, but I think the proud town of Sevastopol doesn't want blood, he just wants to take the team out of town so that the national wealth, first of all, stays in the community of Sevastopol, not this gastroleric, adventurous team.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u43	Burlakov National Deputy, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u44	My cousin, I'd like to give you a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u45	Vadim Koleschenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u46	Dear Ivan Vasilevich! It was clear that the absence of the City of Sevastopol Act had led to the most serious conflict between the interests of the State and the interests of the local territorial community. There's a paradox, if there's a city council, there's nothing he can do. What is the relationship between the city council and the city government? Is the Administration reporting on the work done and on the implementation of programmes and social orders or not reporting? And how can they exist in one city without a relationship? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u47	Thank you for asking. The report had not been able to highlight the issue; it was a very important issue. In fact, you understand the Sevastopol City Council, the representatives of all the inhabitants of Sevastopol and Kunicin personally opposed themselves, all the questions, he says, here I read a few, as he says: Sevastopol City State Administration ask, there's a lot of requests, give those, those, those. He replied: “Please report to the implementation of what functions you have, and to perform what tasks aimed at the realization of rights and freedoms and legitimate interests you need information.” He did not report to the representatives of the community, he said, “I do not obey you.” Indeed, it comes from Balogya’s reply that Sevastopol lives in a legal vacuum. There is no law on Sevastopol, other legal acts, no law on Sevastopol, and that is confirmed by the Sevastopol Municipal Economic Court. And from that point of view, if you take it formally, that's how you do it. But there is nothing to prevent Kunicina from reporting on where the people's money is going, where the local budget goes, where the State budget goes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u48	People's deputy Babenko, faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u49	May I have a word with you, Vladimir Bondarenko?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u50	Vladimir Bondarenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u51	Vladimir Bondarenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear John Vasilovich, except I'll ask you one question. I'd like to point out that you've noticed that in Lviv, both the prosecutor's office and the SBA were friendly, and you've discovered one of the brightest facts of bribery. I think there was another little motive, because there was a struggle between the President's influence between Mr. Balogo and Mr. Olijnik, and so we had to remove the competitor. That's why it was friendly. I think today your faction personally needs to ask Mr. Bear to take similar measures in Sevastopol. And I'm curious about how the budget is being stolen because you said so, but you didn't detail it. As a member of the Committee on Budgets, I am very concerned.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u52	It was very simple, diagram one. Customers for Sevastopol’s Social and Economic Development Programme of the Sevastopol Capital Development Authority, led by former Minister Kunicin and Crimea Malviv, who is the organizer of the immediate thefts. Hence, it receives money from the budget for the construction of these facilities, in particular where the sewage collector at Lakerna, where the commission left, the entire commission from all factions of representatives. There's three drunk men sitting there, they're not bound. I've invited the police, they've drawn up protocols. And as soon as we showed up, they started hammering the bar, creating it, and so on. And as soon as the commission's gone, there's not a single person in the building right now. It's now two years after the money's been billed and, of course, someone's got it. But paradoxes are also mocked to what extent. Malishev himself sent this money into his structures, and now he's suing his structures: return the money, please, because you didn't build it, which causes laughter and sin, you know. And so far, of course, the court has not considered these matters.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u53	Thank you, Ivan Vasilovich, time is up. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, we have 20 minutes to discuss. So I'd like to write it this way: first from factions, then from national MPs with my proposals. Please sign up for the performance. Please state the name of the national MPs on the board. Vadim Koleschenko. Get ready, Schmellow. Who signed up. The faction is written by Schmelov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u54	Dear colleagues! We heard a report today from the interim commission of inquiry on the situation in Sevastopol. And we understand very well that, in this case, the question is not about the individuals who are now leading Sevastopol, but about what kind of power we have in Ukraine today. It is clear and clear that the moment has come when we must come to a conclusion: full decentralization of power and regionalization is required. Exclusively territorial communities and citizens residing in their territories must be fully entitled to comply with the European Charter on Local Self-Government, which we ratified more than 10 years ago, to manage their territory, their resources, possible risks and prospects for the development of their territory. This is, by the way, an integral part of the second phase of political reform that has not yet been implemented. With regard to Sevastopol, this is an unprecedented phenomenon in the territory of a State where, in 17 years, locals do not have the slightest right to control the work of the executive branch. The public administration is subject exclusively to the President of Ukraine. In this case, it is neither legal nor actually possible to bring claims to the management of the administration. Because he is a hired labourer and has a personal responsibility only to the President of Ukraine. By the way, the head of administration acts like that and says so. In this part, what claims may be made. However, the absence of the Sevastopol Act, which has been cherished four times by the various presidents of our State, underlines the superficial attitude, neglect, cynical treatment of the 300,000 inhabitants of the town of Sevastopol, who so far do not have the right to a full report of the State executive for the taxes that local residents pay both in the local budget and in the state budget. The moment has finally come to a concrete conclusion: the government has discredited itself in the territory of Ukraine, and these corruption schemes, the courts are being used to dismantle the land, are now operating throughout Ukraine. Sevastopol is just an example. The main and main conclusion of the Commission's work is that the judicial system needs to be fundamentally changed, the public administration system needs to be fundamentally changed, the functions of urban, public and regional administrations changed, and the authority given to local self-government. Decentralization of power and regionalization of power is the key to the future of our country, because only the territories must determine their future development, both historically and geographically. I therefore propose to support the work of this Commission and to draw conclusions at the State level for all States. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u55	Svetlana Schmelov gives the right to speak, and Matthew, then six minutes, please. [[Communist faction]] Leonid Ivanovich Graz, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u56	Dear colleagues, Vladimir Mihajlovich, I think we are discussing today not the problem of Sevastopol, it would be very narrow. We are, in my view, discussing the central issue of the defiance of our statehood as such, and from here we can say that if we follow the Sevostopol principle, we will come to the greatest tragedy. Moreover, what Ivan Vasiljevic was talking about here was a mass of facts, could be supplemented, expanded, but they are not only Sevastopols, they are, in my opinion, extremely unfortunately present in the entire system of power, and in fact there is no such city, a settlement, but there are no such rural councils, where there is no such debauchery with property and especially with land as there is in Sevastopol. Like another parallel, which clearly and clearly states that everything that happens in Sevastopol is closing in on the Bank. Once again, I have repeatedly reiterated, and I stress that this is nothing more than a recognition that in the State of Ukraine a corrupt, criminalized system of power has been formed from the President to the country's head. And now for Sevastopol. In fact, Sevastopol is the most central, I emphasize, the nerve of our geostrategic, military-political and inter-ethnic relations today is specially thrown outside the legislative framework, so that someone who is actually going to do what is needed, on the one hand, for the Bank and, on the other hand, will be able to afford anything that is beneficial to him. Whoever is there today, the same Kunicin, yesterday was Ivanov's, yesterday was Junko's, they were in fact doing the same thing, or after Kunicin will be next, he will do the same. And that is to be understood, because it is the wisdom of Victor Yushchenk in geopolitics that his Russophobia is just as directed through Sevastopol, as I said before, that the central nerve, the holy nerve, and the eastern Slav space, and the Russian, and the Russian, and for us, and for you, be in such a divisive position. Therefore, one of the issues that has already been raised, and today it is clear and clear, is that, in the end, or we are really completing the system of power-building, especially the local authorities, we are restoring to it all the powers that have been usurped, in fact, by the centre, in order for the power itself to govern its village, city, village and so on; or we will have the abracadabra that is today. You'll be paying attention to two cities. The city of Kiev: it seems like the city's head is chosen by the Kievers, but then it has functions and also an app that it is some kind of head of administration. Who is this Abracadabra? Where is it prescribed in local government legislation? On the contrary, in Sevastopol he is the head of the administration, but the city, the community, is deprived of the right to choose its city head. Here is exactly the key to the reason why the already mentioned Sevastopol status law has been imitating for many years. Or would I ask a different question: who gave anyone the right to deprive the Sevastopol community of the use of the law on local authorities and to choose its own city head? Until then, Vladimir Mihajlovich, I am addressing you, you know, with such a public appeal and everyone, I am addressing the entire room. If we are only at this level of discussion, it is quite right, as Ivan Vasiljevic has said, but if we are done at this level alone, we will not only not solve the problem and we will not even begin to solve it. But we'll give her another coma of trouble, the ones that are. Let us take it all, it is said, with courage, and once we answer that the country's supreme legislative body is in a position to pass the Sevastopol status law or then make the appropriate decision to ensure that the city of Sevastopol enjoys the law that exists today, which works and chooses the city's head. This will not only benefit Sevastopol itself but also benefit Ukraine and Ukraine-Russian relations. On the other hand, if we leave this problem alone, and it will not be solved, we take responsibility for ourselves and, in fact, we become accomplices to the deepening of the crisis processes that have taken place and will happen. I hope you understand and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u57	Vladimir Bondarenko, faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u58	Vladimir Bondarenko, faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Dear friends! After hearing the report of this Special Investigation Commission, I am impressed by the latitude and extent of the violations that are now in Sevastopol. But I fully support the previous speaker that today, whatever administrative-territorial country of Ukraine we don't take, whether it's a city or a village or an area, we're going to notice the apparent violations everywhere, sometimes even larger. So don't take this as a joke, but I'm proposing that the President's administration, including Balozy, conduct a series of seminars on the method of corruption. In Sevastopol, it's complex, maybe in Sevastopol. You can start with Kiev, how to embalm the earth and not sit around, because dozens of criminal cases have been opened up, including through the embezzlement of students and so on, and none of this has worked. Then it's in the area. The head of Didenko’s district government in Barovara has been held in custody, and why, so far, excuse me, is there no result of this intelligence of $40 million? In the area, we also need to assign a seminar just like that of those who release rural heads who are held in bribes. Today we need to consider the question of the judicial system, where a seminar is to be held in Lviv for participation again and for the moderation of Baloga or the Secretariat, one of the responsible staff of the Secretariat, so that this humiliation is not so significant. Therefore, the leadership of the President's Secretariat should plan such seminars on the methodology of corruption, they know everything today. After all, the incident with Zvarič showed that when it comes to internal competition between two who want to take office as secretary, each other is quickly exposed. There's an S.U.I.A. involved, and the D.A. isn't standing by. I'd like to address today from this rostrum to the largest faction of the Supreme Council, because today Mr. Medvedzko is in this state office today thanks to you, and thanks only to your support, he is there today. Why does he not take action as a prosecutor? I've addressed the Kyiv issues dozens of times, and I'm informing you that dozens of lands in Kiev have been allocated to the Attorney General's Office by her coworkers. They continue on the path of so - called market relations, reselling them, and moving on. This is a terrible corruption that is taking place today at the higher levels of government. Thus, the very fact that there were so many violations in Sevastopol, no one else in Ukraine, unfortunately, is not surprising, and unfortunately, is not even annoying. Everyone understands that the state has fallen below what could possibly be. Therefore, dear friends, let us bring at least one matter to an end at the expense of our parliamentary capabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u59	I'm asking you to identify who will be speaking from the faction of "Our Ukrainian People's Self-Defense." Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u60	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Oleg Zarubinsky, Block of Lithuania. You know, we're often criticizing, and we're doing the right thing, the work of many commissions, temporary, investigators and special commissions of the Supreme Council, but this case, I think, is symptomatic enough to show that if the commission is working seriously, if it is studying the documents objectively, it is studying the materials, if it's uninvolved to the conclusions, the result is. At any rate, the conclusions of this committee are considered to be entirely adequate in the situation that has been the case with the first of all in land matters, in property matters in Sevastopol. The Lithuanian Bloc supports the conclusions of this commission not only because our representatives worked as part of this commission but also because they are faithful. But you know, respected colleagues, they're asked a different question or a different problem. When these things are done in Sevastopol, it seems to me that it is not just a blow to the inhabitants of Sevastopol, because, in fact, the hostages of such illegal, corrupt, insolent, criminal acts become ordinary people, they become simple sevastopols. First of all, they suffer from such authority. But this is not just a local issue, not just a regional one. All are well aware that the history of Sevastopol, the development of Sevastopol, is closely related to the political history of modern Ukraine and, of course, to the history of the former Soviet Union. And so today, when such facts occur, and not all of them have been cited today, it is a blow to Sevastopol as against the Ukrainian city. And that's a very important question, because when sevastopols see the attitude of power that they associate with the Ukrainian government, with the Ukrainian state, they're obviously going to get even more intense in the moods that are in Sevastopol. To whom does such authority work that so mistreats its population? Obviously not to the Ukrainian State, not to the Ukrainian people. It seems to me that these conclusions should be acceptable to us, and I feel that on these conclusions the matter should not end. We are convinced that the Lithuanian Block faction believes that those who commit such shameful acts should be punished if you want to be punished, because they are working against Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u61	Dear national deputies, all who signed up, spoke. No one insists on the performance? Don't insist. Let's move on to making a decision. Dear colleagues, we've worked on a draft decision here in the Presidium, agreed with the head of the temporary special committee, so I'll read it with your permission. If you agree, we will put it to the vote accordingly. Regarding the review of the draft Act on the Status of the City Hero of Sevastopol. There is such an offer, fellow believers, that we do not record ourselves what we are obliged to do. Let's just make a decision that as soon as we get the session started, if this document is ready, we'll take it to the first plenary week. It's going to be a protocol decision, because it's not a decision to write down, it's not a decision to write down, it's going to be a project one, and it's going to be a number. And if an alternative project is introduced, we will be obliged to consider it. Because if you support that proposal, I'm going to give you that project that's worked out and harmonized. And you can trust that document you have. Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the previous report of the Interim Investigations Commission on the situation of violations of the Constitution and legislation of Ukraine by the Sevastopol City Administration and the Sevastopol City Council, other executive authorities on land relations issues, and on the abuse of services and the theft of public funds in carrying out work under the Sevastopol Social and Economic Development Programme. [[Of course, the project]] The Supreme Council of Ukraine decides: First. A preliminary report from the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the situation of violations of the Constitution and legislation of Ukraine by the Sevastopol City Administration and the Sevastopol City Council, other executive authorities on land issues, as well as on the abuse of services and the theft of public funds in carrying out work on the Social and Economic Development Programme of Sevastopol to send to the President of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Security Service of Ukraine for appropriate response. The other one. To the President of Ukraine, in part 10 of article 118 of the Constitution of Ukraine, pursuant to the decision of the 10th session of the Sevastopol City Council, number 4374 of May 27, 2008, on expressing distrust at the head of the Sevastopol City Administration, more than two thirds of the votes cast by the Council. Third. The Office of the Attorney-General and the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine give a legal assessment to the management and officials of the Sevastopol City Public Administration on the facts of the embezzlement of public budgetary resources, the abuse of the service position in the alienation of land, the conclusion of rations contracts for the development of the city's engineering and social infrastructure. Four. During the month, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine made proposals to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to improve Ukrainian legislation in order to guarantee the rights of local self-government when contracting land leases. Fifth. Temporary investigator for the Supreme Commission. The interim investigator of the commission to continue to work in accordance with the tasks set out in the Ukrainian Supreme Council Regulation of 5 June 2008 on the establishment of the Interim Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on matters relating to the violation of the Constitution and legislation of Ukraine by Sevastopol by the State Administration and the Sevastopol City Council, other executive authorities on land relations issues, as well as on the service abuse and dissipation of public funds in carrying out work under the Sevastopol Social and Economic Development Programme, as well as to verify the facts of the abuse in the negotiation of rations contracts for the development of the city's engineering and social infrastructure. [[No. 327-6]] Six. Control over the execution of this order will be placed on a temporary commission of inquiry. And the seventh. This decision is effective from the moment it is adopted. Let's do it this way, dear fellows. I see. Now let's take this as a base, obviously, and then your clarification. Is there no objection? I am voting on the basis of the draft Resolution on the previous Report of the Interim Investigative Commission on the Situation of Violations of the Constitution of Ukraine and the Legislation of Ukraine by the Sevastopol City Administration and the Sevastopol City Council, other executive authorities on land relations issues, and on the abuse of services and the theft of public funds in carrying out work under the Sevastopol Social and Economic Development Programme. Please vote. [[11:28:29]] For 370. The decision is made as a basis. Vladimir Bondarenko, please. Then Vadim Koleschenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u62	Vladimir Bondarenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear friends, in the list of institutions to which this decision is to be directed, I would like, without joking at all, to add the Central Committee or what it is called the “One Center” Party. We don't use the party's educational capabilities in relation to our members. Today, the CD of this party will review the behavior of its member, Kunicin, and will give him an evaluation in the end so that people will know how the party treats its members in principle. I'm asking you to add that link to the list. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u63	Vadim Koleschenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u64	The Party of the Regions faction, Vadim Koleschenko. Dear colleagues, respectable Vladimir Mihajlovich! I want us to record for the record what you said was that the first plenary meeting in February was dedicated to the adoption and consideration of the Law on Hero Sevastopol. Did you say it right?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u65	Dear colleagues, we have made a deal on this matter. This was Leonid Ivanovich Grač's proposal that, with the beginning of the session, the committee should make an offer to the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u66	This is for the record, so it's clear. Since we took the order out.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u67	Ceide's protocol entry, this question is settled. So your proposal confirms the decision we made. Dear colleagues, there are no other suggestions? If you have no objection, I will put to the vote a draft decision as a whole as a ruling. Registration number 327. Please, Viacheslav Kirilenko. Microphone. Change the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u68	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “For Ukraine! ” Here, of course, you can joke about a variety of subjects. But since the Black Sea fleet of brother Russia wants to fully control the entire Sebastopol government and the entire Sevastopol, it is not difficult to agree. And we're in this rush to fight the embalming of land, which, by the way, takes place in every area -- in the West, East, in the East -- we should not forget that Sevastopol is a strategically important city for Ukraine. Let's still adopt the Sevastopol City Act, choose a national mayor from the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation -- and here Sevastopol from Ukraine. This is what the Party of the Regions is up to, and BUTT is uprooting in its hatred of whom it is unknown, not thinking and seeing behind the trees of the forest. Therefore, you fellow workers do not scream, and you do not think about who to film, but think about Ukraine at least at times. Because we lose Sevastopol, the responsibility on the budget will also lie with us.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u69	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please. Dear colleagues, I beg of you, a reply when the name of the Ukrainian national deputy is mentioned. Please, Lace's line. I understand, it's better to give a knife.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u70	You understand correctly, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. According to the Rules, when they mention the name of a deputy or a faction. I think that none of Ukraine's citizens have any doubt that the Yulia Timoshenko Block is always in Ukrainian positions. And in this case, we are like our colleagues in the “Our Ukraine” faction, primarily concerned about the interests of the Ukrainian city of Sevastopol. And the Ukrainian city’s interest is to have honest authority in this city so that it does not cause the land to be embezzled and the budget to be stolen. And we call on the President of Ukraine to protect the interests of the Ukrainian city of Sevastopol to put a representative of the President there to meet these criteria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u71	Dear colleagues, since both BUT and the Party of Regions have already been mentioned, please. Just don't mention your last name again, please. Vadim Koleschenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u72	Dear colleagues, it is a matter of seeing in Parliament today once again the cynical disregard for the rights of ordinary citizens of Ukraine, including citizens, inhabitants of Sevastopol. They are now being tried for some reason to deny the right to control the power they have chosen for their own money. This is the attitude of the orange authorities, in fact, to the unwillingness of this power to support and destabilize the situation. It must therefore be made clear that the Party of the Regions is primarily concerned with human rights, Ukrainian rights, and not with those who walk in embroidery and beat themselves in the chest about being a patriot. A patriot who respects and loves the people who keep us here with you, not the one who walks on the bench, drinks Georgian wine and walks in the embroidery. Only then will we understand why people do not love their own authority. I would therefore like to reiterate that the Law on the Hero City of Sevastopol is important and necessary. It reflects the European Charter on Local Self-Government, ratified by us, and the Constitution in which human rights are guaranteed through their elected authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u73	Dear colleagues, they exchanged lines. Let's agree with just one thing: all the speeches that have been made, they're full of us having normal civilized power, and so that we can talk about what the Constitution is doing in Ukraine. I am convinced that the proposals that have been made, Viacheslava Kirilenko, and the concern for us to adopt a normal civilized law will be realized by all of us in the process of discussing and making decisions. Let us talk about what unites us and unites us so that people can feel that they are human. That's why we're going to the vote now. It is up to the vote to be adopted as a whole as a decision on the draft Decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine under registration number 3278 on the previous report of the Interim Investigative Commission on the question of the violation of the Constitution and legislation of Ukraine by the Sevastopol City Administration and the Sevastopol City Council, other executive authorities on land relations issues, as well as on the abuse of services and the theft of public funds in carrying out the socio-economic development programme of Sevastopol. Please vote. [[11:35:19]] For 374 I'll take the order. By factions, please: Region Party – 172, “Timoshenko Yulia Block” – 154, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” – 2, Communist faction – 27, “Litvina Block” – 19. Dear colleagues, there is a request and a proposal: the following questions are to be considered in a simplified manner in order to exhaust the consideration of issues on schedule for today. You won't have any warnings to put this motion to the vote? The proposal for consideration of the issues set out in the schedule for today is put to the vote under a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[11:36:16]] For 335 Decision taken. A draft decree on the introduction of a moratorium on the eviction of publications, bookstores, and distribution firms is announced for consideration. We made a decision yesterday, Your Honor, to consider this issue, but we need to put it in the agenda. The proposal is therefore put to the vote: the inclusion in the agenda of the daily project of a moratorium on the eviction of publications, bookstores, and distribution firms. Please vote. [[11:37:05]] For 347 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, Vladimir Alexandrovich Yavorowski. Please, Vladimir Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u74	Dear Ukrainian Parliamentarians, dear voters! Turn your memory back a little bit, and I will remind you that about two months ago, you and I passed a very important law aimed at supporting the bookstore in Ukraine. Despite the fact that we have passed this law and that it gives certain preferences to the bookstore in Ukraine, such a situation may be very soon about what the law will be, but in fact we will not have publishing, there will be no bookstores, and there will be no room for book distribution. What's the matter? You know that in many cities, and especially in this, our home capital with you, is now just cleaning up some of the last points where a Ukrainian, a resident, a Ukrainian citizen can buy a book. What happened only in the center of Kiev was the impression that the Tatar-Mongol horde had just passed, which literally destroyed all of those spiritual points that were on Christianity. The complete edition of Poetry – many remember – was destroyed right on Maidan Independence, Bookstore “Notas”, “Art”, “Planeta”, “Medicine Book”, “Technical Book”. This sounds like a martyrologist, because it's all been destroyed today. And the last thing that made the Committee on Culture and Spirituality come out with this document is what's going on around the state, and I would like to stress once again, the state publication Dnipro, which has a colossal history that has published a Ukrainian classic that published a Ukrainian novel newspaper. Today, the collective is actually barricaded in the premises because city officials are actually here to take over.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u75	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u76	Which is why we're asking, we're proposing a very short decision to temporarily stop this process, which is and to prepare the Cabinet of Ministers, we recommend that we prepare for this clarification of the law. I'm asking you very much to support this, we're going to do a wonderful job. Yesterday we supported our media. Today we'll support both the bookkeeping and the distribution.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u77	Thank you, Vladimir Alexanderovich, sit down. Dear colleagues, is there a need to exchange thoughts on this matter? Please sign in, two for and two against. So while the recording is going on, I want to say that we've been doing a little bit of work here on the draft resolution and we've foreseen that we're going to include a press release to make up for the problem that we discussed with you yesterday. Roman Zvaric, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Viachelav Kirilenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u78	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “For Ukraine” MP. I am grateful to my colleague Yavorowski for initiating this consideration. It's a very important subject that we can't solve. If you look at the center of Kiev, take Khreshtick, the Pechersky region, the Podil region, you can find that dozens of bookstores that were there do not exist now. I myself, when I was Vice-Prime Minister for Humanities and Social Affairs, was literally in the newly elected Mayor of the Chamber of Chernobyl, from which they wanted to expel the children's magazine Sunshine. It was not pleasant that the children’s magazine Sunflower, of course, could not pay such a rent as could be paid by large businessmen who came with the new team of mayors. And it's not just in Kiev, it's in all the district centers. And given that bookstores are usually located in the center of the city, they suffer the most. Therefore, I am convinced that Parliament should adopt a regulation, but we should not limit ourselves to declarations. Because we would do well to write that, for example, if there are public institutions, government institutions whose premises are owned by the state, why can't they rent their premises at the foreign exchange rate? After all, decisions were made on this subject. There was a President's decree with such a proposal, there were corresponding decisions made by previous governments. I think that if Parliament sees this in its ruling today, it will be very good. And besides, we should have at least some minimum standards for bookkeeping. We are a civilized country, and we should not be running nightclubs and slot machines across Europe, we should be running bookstores. If Parliament writes this rule down and takes care of it, then we will demonstrate the state's approach. In general, he is convinced that the financing of this area, the financing of the government and the ministries in charge of the book, should be ten times more than in this budget. And this should also be taken into account when making changes to the budget for this year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u79	The word is given by Yuri Gnatkevitch, the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u80	Dear colleagues! Yuri Gnatkevitch, Yulia Timoshenko Block. Yesterday’s discussion of a similar issue in the Supreme Council, emotional and long - term speeches, showed that these issues matter more than they may seem. I wanted to draw your attention to the fact that today we again had a heated and long discussion on our faction. And we're going to support this draft decision. But all we want to do is point out that in our faction there's the idea that the necessary standards need to be redistributed, again, to all the media, to all the newspapers and publications. I would like to remind you that a long time ago, a rarety of our publication such as “Preschool Education” has been addressed to me. Of course, children need to be raised before school. But they have been tried repeatedly to remove them from these premises. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there are corruption schemes around this. They're offered money, they're bribed, they're dismembered. I also want to remind you of the fact that we are likely to have to go back not only to the media, publishing, bookkeeping, and public organizations. A few months ago, the raiders seized the headquarters of the Central Authority of the Society of Prisoners and Repressors in Kiev. And it was only my intervention as the head of the repressive committee that prevented them. So we're going to support this draft decree unanimously.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u81	The national deputy Gordienko hands over the right to speak to Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u82	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, I think we're with you today after yesterday's heated conversation, in principle, when we were talking about public media, we agreed, I think, on those speeches that have already been delivered, according to a report by the committee of profile. It feels like we're ready to actually implement that idea today to protect not only the printery, but also to protect all the print media. Because the vast majority of them are in those publishing facilities that, by the way, were built during the years of Soviet power, no new ones have appeared. These were mostly party publications. And those newspaper or magazine editors who are in these rooms are constantly getting entrenched in their rights through raids. The most striking example in this regard is the publication “Kievska Truth”, which contains three newspapers, and the raiders are all trying to evict these publications of famous, famous newspapers, including the newspaper The Kiev Publisher, which has, if I am not mistaken, some 400,000 copies of circulation, one of the most massive newspapers in our country. A newspaper that protects the interests of older people, veterans, and pensioners try to move to the streets. So I call on everyone really, and it's good that there's this support and proposal, and I know that the already edited draft of the decision is to have all the print media still installed there. And one more thing. It's a good thing we're talking about Kyiv riots, but we still have to say that unfortunately, the political forces that talk about it are responsible because they chose and recommended such a measure.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u83	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the Lithuanian Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u84	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Oleg Zarubinsky, Block of Lithuania. Obviously, this decision will probably find support in the vast majority of the halls, because in fact, the author of the legislative initiative, by the way, is the author of many initiatives on protection and bookstores, and in general Ukrainian culture, Vladimir Yavorowski, says that it is not paradoxical, but it is these raids at the bookstore that end in publishing that these premises do not go to other cultural institutions, and they start to work, casinos, nightclubs and so on. And that's not surprising, because those who carry out raids on Ukrainian bookstores have obviously read "Bukwar" in their lives at best, and the Criminal Code has become a table book for them. They don't need any Ukrainian books or any other books. But it seems to me that the honourable author of the legislative initiative should follow the Rules and the legislative work. In particular, you well know that in part seven of Rule 90, it is stated that the order of action should be noted. So I suggest, in order to avoid any legal collegiates, that when we vote in favour of this ruling, please, Mr. Volodymyr, suggest, as you think, that we add a line as it becomes effective when it becomes effective. And one more moment, I think it's important. It is appropriate to raise the questions of colleagues from different factions about the need to establish a moratorium and the facilities in which the media operate. There are two options: either it's to provide for in this regulation as the hall decides, or it's to be included in that bill that Kabmin will propose and what's in the second part of the resolution, and more specifically, the operative part. The Lithuanian bloc supports this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u85	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. Let me read you a draft ruling, because here are the proposals from the Communist faction on printed media and also the proposal by Oleg Zarubinsky that we make clear when the ruling takes effect. With that in mind, I'm going to read it now, dear colleagues. Project. What? Ariev's microphone, please. Ariev’s microphone Well, there are some suggestions, so we can make a decision. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u86	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, I would like to suggest that we consider or add to this decision a situation with cultural institutions, because, according to my information today, the Kyiv City Administration has already taken over the Houses of Culture and the premises belonging to cultural societies. Literally in three hundred meters from the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the buildings of the Arsenaltz culture have already been placed on it, they are already moving creative groups out of there, they have already given them, in fact, the idea that they will be without room. There's folk folklore groups, there's Frontowice. Comrade Communists, protect them, please, these front songs are sang by several elderly women. That is why we today, the Supreme Council, need to intervene urgently. They're already trying to take the best pieces. So if we don't get into the decision right now, or if we don't get the commission of the committee to do a draft decision on cultural institutions, we're going to lose the only one in the city center of Kiev, where children are still being brought to work in groups. And so it's going to be in other areas, it's not going to be excluded, it's going to be in other cities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u87	Viacheslav Kirilenko, then Mikola Catherinechuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u88	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “For Ukraine! ” I have two specific proposals for the text of the ruling. First. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine approves minimum standards for the provision of book-trafficking services to citizens in each administrative and territorial unit. And a second offer. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine develop order for bookshops to be placed in state-owned buildings and consider the possibility of setting rent rates for rentals in these buildings of areas that are used for the sale of bookkeeping products. That was before in a normative base. Please take into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u89	Vjačeslav Anatoliyovich, please give me. Dear colleagues, now we're going to come up with a general approach, because, you see, we're not going to make it to the city administration. Please, Mikola Catherinechuk, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u90	The European Party of Ukraine supports this bill and believes that this was a very useful proposal made by the Communists regarding the support of the media. And I'm sure what my colleague Ariev said about culture can be written in a separate decree, because we can't just talk today about what's going on in Kiev, we have to talk about what's going on all over Ukraine. And I think that the proposal of the people's deputy, Kirilenka, is just as correct, and I would ask that they be included in this determination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u91	Thank you. Before giving the word to Vladimir Aleksandrovitch Yavorowski, I want to ask the leaders of the MP factions, the minister, I saw here there was, social politics and work during the break to meet in the Cabinet of the Supreme Council. Váchaslav Anatoliyovich, please give me your suggestions in writing. And Vladimir Alexandrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u92	Dear colleagues, everything that has been said in this room, I am very grateful, everything is very clever and everything. All proposals are totally acceptable. I'm proposing that we don't make any mistakes, I just promise you that the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, we're working next week, doing what Ariev offered in terms of cultural facilities. And if Kirilenko's proposal is not included suddenly, then we're ready to include them in another decision. And everything else will be taken into account in a law that needs to be passed very quickly. That is why I would ask you to accept this decision today. Its purpose is to protect immediately now primarily the bookkeeping and distribution. We'll count the rest, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Right now, in the first numbers of the next session, you're going to make another decision about cultural facilities.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u93	Dear colleagues, in view of the fact that we are discussing this issue, it will likely be resonating, and while we are working on the next decision, I think they will take what is left. In this regard, in order to find consensus, a draft decree was being elaborated here in the Presidium. Let me read it for you. If there's any comments, you'll say. Draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the introduction of a moratorium on emigration of printed media, cultural institutions, publications, bookstores, book distribution companies. In view of the fact that in Kiev and other parts of Ukraine today there are evictions of printed media, cultural institutions, publications, bookstores, bookstores, bookstores from premises that they have occupied legally for decades, and for the purpose of developing a country’s bookstore, creating favourable conditions for printed media, cultural institutions, economic entities that specialize in publishing, manufacturing, and distribution of books, the Supreme Council decides. First. The executive authorities, local self-government authorities, have been suspended pending the approval of the relevant law to stop making decisions and to suspend the decisions already taken to evict print media, cultural institutions, publishing houses, bookstores, bookstores, and bookstores from rented public and municipal premises. The other one. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine approves minimum standards for the provision of book-trafficking services to citizens in each administrative and territorial unit. Third. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine will develop the order for bookshops to be placed in state-owned buildings and for the installation of rentable debt bags for hire in these buildings of areas that will be used for the sale of bookkeeping products. And the next one is number four. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine immediately develop a draft law prohibiting the eviction of print media, cultural institutions, publications, bookstores, bookstores from their rented public and municipal premises. And the fifth. This decision takes effect from the day it was published. No warning? Now I'm going to be the basis, and then I'm going to be the proposal. May I have your attention, please? I'm voting on the basis of the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine regulation, registration number 3617 on the introduction of a moratorium on evicting print media, cultural institutions, publishing, bookstores, book distribution companies. Please vote. [[11:57:40]] For 424 We accepted it as a foundation. Come on, Donny, please. One minute, Alex Donny has his word now.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u94	Good afternoon. A small offer. In view of the scandalous situation of evicting the children's library in Poltava, there is a proposal in the list, apart from bookstores, publishing, to add the word “bibliotek”, if possible. You want to mark the libraries separately, just add the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u95	Mikola Catherinechuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, I think we have made a completely valid decision. In terms of libraries, they refer to cultural institutions, and I think we can write it either in a separate decision that Yavorowski proposes, or they're counted here. And I would also like to say that each of us today can give a thousand examples of appeals from media outlets, bookstores about raids on their premises. You know that we have a one-hundred-year edition of Ukraine, which is being evicted by DuSa from its courtrooms today because of other provocative actions. I would like today’s decision to just start this conversation, and it will be concluded by law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u97	Oleg Light, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u98	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear colleagues, I ask you to pay attention to this situation. Here we are in the draft decrees for banning evictions from rented premises. [[Indicating this word]] For example, the lease agreement ended on December 31, 2008. And those who want to evict publishing or editing the printed media don't make a new lease agreement and formally on January 16 -- the day of the decision -- it's not a rental room. Therefore, I propose that perhaps there is a point to replace the word “rented” with the word “borrowed by printed media — publications, bookstores — premises”. Because the city authorities are not planning to evict the lease that was last year. It doesn't add up to the new year. What can be done in this case? Then it turns out that they do not fall within the scope of this decree. I'm asking you to pay attention to this and perhaps have the legal authorities work with this one.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u99	Thank you. Yuri Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u100	Thank you. Yuri Klukkowski, "Our Ukraine." I would like to point out that what colleague Lazko suggests may be written down, but it will not save you in the situation described, since the court will use the law, not the Supreme Council ruling. However, there is a problem with leases. Therefore, I propose in the first paragraph, after the words “before the approval of the relevant law”, that I add that I should “do not allow the practice of breaking or terminating leases and stopping the decision-making process and so on”. To be supplemented by the following text: “Do not allow the practice of breaking or terminating lease contracts”.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u101	People's deputy to Popescu. And now, dear fellows, we will make the final decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u102	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. I would like to propose -- this is not for the transcript -- that before our colleague Klukkowski proposes, and this is really about rent, because there are cases where the lease ends, and then, in fact, they don't sign new contracts, to foresee, as was envisaged in the draft budgets, that when the lease is concluded, the lease priority right on competitive terms has been given to the tenant who has honestly fulfilled all of his terms. If you think so, the problem is solved. If not, no one will make a new lease agreement. And these organizations and these institutions will all be thrown out of court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u103	Proposals were made in the following way: add “bibliotek”. Clearly, this is a cultural institution. True, we don't know what culture is in the authorities. So let's write down the word "bibliotek" – I see nothing to worry about, the more there is a huge historical scandal going on in Poltava. If you don't mind, I'm putting this motion to a vote: add the word "bibliotek" to the list. Please vote. [[12:02:56]] For 401 Decision taken. Oleg Ljasko proposed to add instead of the word “rented” – “borrowed”. The logic is here because many come formally, the deadline is over, and delete. Let's write: "borrowed rental premises". I'm putting this proposal to the vote. Change it. Please, Chevchenko, microphone. You can see how difficult the question has been and how painful it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u104	Colleagues, I support the idea itself. But if we leave the word "occupied," it means that we can generate a wave of self-absorbing when people just walk in, occupy a room that they've never been to, and they'll have to stay there. Let's think about the formulation, Oleg, the idea I like. You just need better stylistic, legal literacy.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u105	Dear colleagues, the lawyers have offered. May I have your attention, please? Instead of “rented”, record “ lawfully borrowed”. I put to the vote this amendment, please vote. [[12:04:18]] For 390 Another suggestion, respected colleagues, for – 390, was made regarding this amendment. Another amendment, a colleague of Popescu suggests that those who lease these premises before the end of the lease have a priority right to continue the rent. Because it's obvious that the formal touch is that the lease is over and there's no conversation. Therefore, the proposal is to add that “the priority right to continue the lease remains with those who have rented these cultural premises.” Well, we will identify the idea of “to this end”. No objections? There's a denial, so let's get this right now. Well, we're going to your repair now. Yuri Klukkowski, turn on the microphone, make it public, maybe we'll find some. position.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u106	I proposed in the first paragraph, after saying: until the approval of the relevant law, to add: “Do not allow the practice of breaking or terminating leases”. What a colleague of Popescu said does not conflict with this, but it does not replace it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u107	Do not allow the practice of breaking up. Renting, right. So let's put it this way. Please, Jaroslav Suhi, the proposal for this.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, I'd like you all to remember, we're taking the press to the press in the morning. They are now in Kiev under the pressure of the raiders, because they are, unfortunately, in very easy places -- downtown, crossings, where flows of people go. I propose, Vladimir Mikhailovich, with a voice, but to write forward the rulings of the distinguished colleague of Yavorowski, the “press distribution business”, and to distribute the moratorium to the media companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u109	We're not gonna be able to figure it all out right now. Let's take at least one document. [[B in m in s a l in]] That's right. Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u110	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I suggest you stop. We can now make a very good decision. We're not going to solve all the problems anyway. So, Vladimir Mikhajlovich, I propose to put to the vote a decision to be taken in general, and all the other ideas that will arise, we will certainly take into account in the laws, because our decision is just a political statement, and we need to legitimize it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u111	Well. Oleg Zarubinski on this matter? And now we're going to, we're going to vote on the amendments and we're going to vote on it as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u112	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, Adam Martinyuk has now said quite correctly: look, we are making the situation absurd. It was a good idea. Vladimir Mikhailovich read the version that included both libraries and the media. Now we're going to reverse this legal technique and we're going to see that there's going to be a balanced bill. And in general, if you want to include anything, you have to make a law, not a decree. If we continue now, we will not accept anything. I propose to vote now.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u113	Dear colleagues, the point is that we are this determination, in fact, and let's face it, we're making wheels to compromise us, and in order to demonstrate the will of the Supreme Council, we should probably take a look at all the amendments and make a principled decision. That's why it's now being proposed, and I think enough of the amendments that Yuri Klukkowski made and combined with the amendment of his colleague Popescu. “Do not allow without justification, to add the first paragraph,- not to allow groundless practices of rent break-up or termination. Renters, current renters have a priority for the extension of the lease." I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please vote. What, what? Take it off. Rentars, yes. Excuse me, renters. Well, it's been reported. Excuse me, renters, yes. Vote. [[12:09:30]] For – 398 Decision taken. Respectful colleagues, given the amendments that have been voted on, there is no insistence on anyone? Viacheslav Koval still has one.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u114	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, we make the decision that those areas of our lives really need. But we, Volodymyr Mihajlovich, are commissioning the Committee on Culture to look into the problems of cultural institutions, cultural institutions, because there are still orchestras, there is a symphony orchestra, there is finally a Kyiv "Camerata" that has colossal rent problems right now. So if, given that the Committee on Cultural Affairs will consider this issue at a meeting next week and issue either a draft regulation or a draft law, this decision can be adopted without any additions or changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, Viacheslav Koval is right, but this will be equivalent to saying that the fish swims in the water. The committee is obliged to consider the relevant issues, make the appropriate proposals, so I would ask that I do not insist on voting on this amendment, since this will mean that we are again reminding ourselves that the powers that are due to be recognized by each committee should be exercised. But on a protocol, let's agree that we need to make such an appointment so that the committees are appropriate and, above all, the committee that initiates this decision, so that they can process proposals for the relevant legislation, and that we can bring the law into the river. And now we have to put up an ass, at least temporarily. As for Jaroslav Mikhailovich's proposals, I would ask you not to insist, because we have a conflict today between the media and the institutions that distribute them. And that's why we're going to put a conflict into this. Do you understand? I'd ask her to take it off, she needs a different regulation. Taking into account the amendments that have been adopted, I am voting on the approval of the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine regulation on the introduction of a moratorium on evicting print media, cultural institutions, publishing, bookstores, book distribution companies as a whole as a decision. [[Registration number 3617]] Please vote. [[12:12:19]] For 414 I'll take the order. Dear colleagues! A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 43 minutes. I ask the leaders of factions as well as the minister of social policy and work to gather in the office of the Head.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u116	Invite the deputies to the session room so that we can continue our work. Dear colleagues, we held meetings of the Conciliation Council, discussed the matter of Bill 3556. I'll brief you on the outcome of the Conciliation Council meeting, but right now, I think we might as long as the national committee deputies, the factions return to the session room, consider another bill, and then continue our work. So I'm announcing a draft law amending the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences to increase responsibility for violations of Ukrainian regulations. Registration number 2531. Reporter is Deputy Minister of Interior Vasil Evgenovich Marmazov. The co-reporter will be the head of the committee's subcommittee on law enforcement issues, Victor Viktorovich Shemchuk. Victor Viktorovich, please look. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u117	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! For your consideration, a bill is proposed by the Ministry of Internal Affairs to carry out the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Given that we are now seeing an increase in the number of violations by foreigners and non-citizens in Ukraine, as well as an increase in the number of cases of violations of the laws on the legal status of aliens in Ukraine by legal and natural persons, as well as the number of cases detected by the internal authorities of illegal migrants being proposed and envisaged to amend articles 204, 205 and 206 with the symbol 1 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences, by increasing the liability of offenders to the legal status of aliens, by increasing it by approximately two times the size of fines. The implementation of Ukraine’s law does not provide for additional costs from the State Budget, nor will it contribute to its fulfillment. In addition, strengthening administrative responsibility for actions that help foreigners to violate established regulations in Ukraine will have a positive impact on issues related to prevention and the fight against illegal migration. The bill is accepted without notice by the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economics, the State Border Service Administration, the Ministry of Justice and approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Please support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u118	Victor Viktorovich Shemchuk, please position the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u119	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Law Enforcement at its meeting considered the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Violations on Strengthening Responsibility for Violations of the Regulations in Ukraine. The bill provides for amendments to articles 204, 206. The Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences, which will allow to increase the lower limit of sanctions for articles 204, 205, 206 and 206. The Code, which is mentioned, does not significantly increase the scope of responsibility for violating the prescribed articles of the Code. Today, there is a trend towards an increase in the number of violations by foreigners and stateless persons in Ukraine, as well as an increase in the incidence of violations of legislation on the legal status of foreigners by legal and natural persons in Ukraine. Therefore, the adoption of the bill will allow for increased administrative responsibility for actions that help foreigners to violate established regulations in Ukraine, as well as help to resolve issues related to prevention and the fight against illegal migration. Having examined the bill, the committee considers it necessary to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the bill be considered by a reduced procedure and adopted as a basis and as a whole as a law of Ukraine. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Foreign Affairs also supports the bill. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u120	Dear colleagues who are willing to participate in the discussion of this bill, please register: two in favour, two in favour. On the board is the name of the national deputies who are registered. Pudov, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u121	I would like to give the floor to Mr. Gnatkevich Yuri Vasilevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u122	Yuri Gnatkevitch, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u123	Dear colleagues, the globalization of the world’s economic and crisis situations have intensified migration processes in many countries. And so the question that we are considering today is more important than it may seem. But Ukraine is not ready for these processes. First of all, there's not a single government body that deals with migration issues. We have essentially seven state institutions dealing with this issue. There is no clear and comprehensive legislation on migration policy. And what's important is that today, criminal structural groups have been formed that use and abuse this case. I will tell you this strange experience when nine Chinese men were found in Luhansk in one of the district centers in the apartment, with one legitimate passport for all. And since they look like one face to us, they went out in turn with this passport and walked around the city. I've recently been to Brussels and Berlin with a group of our practitioners dealing with this issue, and we've come to the conclusion that if they're looking at this in Europe from a liberal and pragmatic perspective, that is, taking what they need, who they need, what jobs they can do, what they don't want to do, they're taking these people, we have an ethnopsychological and pragmatic approach, that is, everyone who's strangers today, we don't need them, they're hurting us. We have received several drafts from the committee, such as the Grigory Smituch Bill from the Party of Regions. We've considered it. But what's interesting is that this bill, like the one we're considering today, increases the responsibility of our people as well as those who come to us illegally, their responsibility. Criminal responsibility, fines, and so forth is strengthened. Our committee recently received a draft concept of migration policy approved by the Cabinet of Ministers. At last we awaited this bill of concept, and we looked at it on the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u124	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u125	And then we'll be able to look at these projects that others came to us in the complex. We also recommend that our faction vote in favour of this bill in the first reading or “screw” it so that there are no rules that strongly untie the hands of our militia, so that they do not show us that we are a militia state. And not too many fines to look at are proposed in this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u126	Thank you. Valerius Beales, Communist faction. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u127	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, on a large scale, what we have today is actually going on with illegal migration, so to speak, the problem is complex and our ratifications of the respective readmission agreements and so forth. But statistics show that every year we have illegal migrants through the territory of our country growing rapidly. In the past year alone, 2008, more than 12,000 employees of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and of foreign forces have been detained. All the crime syndicates, the Malinin apartments, including our capital, are working. So what is being proposed today is that I think we need to support and vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u128	Roman Zvarić, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u129	Dear colleagues, I don't really deny it, because for some of the actions that the government is proposing to strengthen and, by the way, to strengthen punishment for such acts, it is necessary to do so. But if there is really a significant social danger, as is seen in the legislative initiative of the government, in the opinion of the government, it would not be in the Code of Administrative Offences, but it should be criminalized and carried out in the field of punishment in a particular part of the Criminal Code. Why do I say that? Because I would like to draw your attention to the fact that what the government is proposing, that is, severe punishments for individual acts, similar to those of the Criminal Code, are far weaker penalties. What do you mean, how do you do it? If this law becomes effective, the wrongdoer will insist that it be identified as a criminal, thus greatly weakening his punishment. So my proposal is to send this bill to the government to work with the proposal that they should make these penalties not in the Code of Administrative Offences, but in the Criminal Code, as this comes from the very essence of the proposal of the legislative initiative of the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u130	Oleg Zarubinski, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u131	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! This is precisely the case when the subject of the legislative initiative is sufficiently fragmented to address the systemic issue. Any systemic issue needs a systemic solution. It was rightly pointed out here by colleagues that the problem of illegal migration and the problem of illegal or partly illegal residence of citizens in Ukraine is a problem of migration policy as a whole. In this case, one fragment is proposed: on the one hand, it can be said that there are, in fact, objective factors for increasing fines, at least in order for these fines to be adequate to the reality of life, the reality of the present, because there are fines not only in this area, which simply do not concern those who have to pay them because they are extremely small. But in the development of what my colleague Zvaric said, I would like to detail this problem. See article 53 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code defines fines for committing crimes between 30 and 1,000 untaxed minimum citizens’ incomes. The penalties provided for in the current articles range from 204 to 206. 1 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences, - it was rightly said that in some cases they are already exceeding the minimum amount of fines for committing crimes. And it turns out that when administrative seduction is more severe than punishment for committing a crime. If certain activities referred to in these articles pose a significant social danger and cause significant harm to the subject of protection, then some of them should be considered for criminalizing and proposing appropriate changes — I agree with the cook — to the Criminal Code of Ukraine. So here's a case of a fragmented approach to.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u132	Let me finish. You all have it, don't you?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u133	There is a case where the problem is dealt with in a fragmented way. As a minimum, this should not be accepted in general: either for work or in the first reading, but for work in preparation for the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u134	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the bill is under discussion. Registration number 2531 has been completed. The committee’s proposal was to accept as a basis and generally as a law. At the same time, the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration is that the bill is intended to restore the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further development. I will therefore put to the vote in accordance with the Rules: the adoption of the draft Law amending the Code of Administrative Offences. [[on strengthening responsibility for violations of Ukrainian regulations]] Registration number 2531. Please vote. On the basis of this, and then we'll work on taking into account the proposals made by the national MPs. [[12:57:05]] For 239. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I have been repeatedly urged by National Deputy Jaroslav Kendzior to bring you to your attention that he did not vote on Bill 3250-D yesterday and that his card was illegally ordered by the National Deputy of Blackwillor. We're going to add this to the protocol. But I would like to ask the distinguished national MPs to be in the workplace and manage my cards as assigned. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Let me inform you about the Conciliation Council of Ukraine, the issues discussed at the Conciliation Council of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Conciliation Council considered the proposal that today the Supreme Council of Ukraine should finally determine the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine on pension insurance. This is registration number 3556. Yesterday it was received under about 300 votes in the first reading. A number of comments were made. Accordingly, the Committee and the Ministry of Social Policy have accepted those comments and suggestions, and considering that it should serve as a filler of the Pension Fund, and at the same time considering that it is sensitive and necessary to accept its political responsibility, we have agreed that we will now consider this issue. But in order to get to the hearing, I ask, first of all, that the deputies be in the sessional room, and second of all, that they sign up for five minutes to exchange their thoughts on this subject. As long as it's recording, Alexander Lavrinovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u135	Dear colleagues, yesterday we included this issue in the agenda, considered it in the first reading, and approved it. During the discussion, several national deputies made proposals regarding this law. Today the Council of the Party of the Regions has considered this issue and because there are so many proposals that need to be made in this law, we will not today support its inclusion in today’s session and consideration of the draft law. It is necessary to comply with the requirements of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and, within the time limit set, to allow a national MP to make a proposal, a committee to adopt the relevant decision and, in accordance with the Rules, in the second reading, to consider the draft law in the session room in order to adopt the final decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u136	Thank you. Dear, honourable colleagues, I ask before we continue to communicate, so that we can agree to postpone the consideration of the matter at the scheduled time – “Miscellaneous” and to decide with Bill 3556. No objections? And then we'll make up for that time. Please, Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u137	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I will certainly, as a obedient member of the Party of the Regions, execute the decision of the Presidium, the political tradition of the Party of the Regions, but I want to make one warning. You see, this bill can be boldly applied. This is the only bill from the beginning of the crisis that can be called a real bill of unpopular but necessary action. The thing is, we may not vote, it may not pass. The pension fund is now in a pitiful position to fill the budget. The dynamics are going up. We now have a budget deficit that will continue to deepen. You understand very well that the sharp decline in production volumes, almost 48-50 percent of some industries, have sharply reduced the pay-per-work fund. And that 32-33 percent is just not going to be where they're from.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u138	Arjewitin is delegating the right to speak to his fellow Viennese.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u139	For Ukraine, the "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" faction. There is a fairly high element to the truth of the crisis of the State Pension Fund. And so, of course, whatever we want to do, we will have to make certain decisions that will be unpopular among the inhabitants, but all the residents will be allowed to receive at any rate not as large as we would like to offer a pension, but to receive it on time. But there are a number of novelties in this bill that can stimulate what we've seen quite recently, when entrepreneurs, peasants, and others are coming under the Supreme Council, who are further threatened by paying to the Pension Fund, who are still having a hard time with this. Therefore, it would be appropriate to follow the Rules, to make constructive suggestions that were made in this session hall, and only then to consider and accept them as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u140	National Deputy Steshenko, Timoshenko Yuli Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u141	John Grigorovich Kirilenko please be handed over by the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u142	Ivan Kirilenko. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u143	Dear colleagues, I would like to thank the National Deputy Sukhoma, who has told the truth as it is. In fact, one of the most important laws that we are considering this week is this law. Taking into account yesterday’s conversation and discussion, both the Ministry and the Committee changed their reasoning articles, such as the agricultural complex. And the comparative table is already on the hands. And the minister will speak, and the committee will talk about it. This is reflected in a number of other suggestions. I want to state with responsibility that this law does not reduce pensions, God forbid. This law provides for an increase in pensions. He'll see to it. But it's a law of many, many things and it's fine. And really, we need to make sure that the pensioners get their pensions uninterrupted. Unbreakable. Colleagues, this law is absolutely necessary. I'm asking him to look at it today and accept it anyway. Support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u144	Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukrainian People's Self-Defense.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u145	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland. "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense." Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Head, I appeal to you so that we may have the same approach. There are no double standards. Last night we were handed out the bill 0924, it wasn't handed out, it was lying on the side of the deal. Why? Because it's done, so to speak, smuggled, without the conclusion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Legal Authority, without a deal. The pages didn't all pass. In short, this law was called “On the system of assembly and the calculation of the only social contribution to the general government social insurance”. We have considered it, starting with the introduction of the document, is a brutal violation of the Rules. Then it can be done. With regard to this bill, which now exists, there is a danger that people who are already angry may not get pensions. For this to not happen, we need to consider this bill. If not, hold a meeting on Monday or Tuesday, one day, and then consider. That's why I have to.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u146	Vladimir Yavorowski, faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u147	Dear colleagues, dear voters, I just want to remind everyone that the global crisis that we have is the result of waste, the squandering waste of all mankind, not just us Ukrainians. Because of this, we understand very well that this year is going to be incredibly difficult, and today we need to literally limit ourselves to everything that's too much to just survive everything. Because there is nothing more sacred today than the pensioners we have to provide with a pension, they have no other means of living. Because of all of our conversations, all of our blackouts that we're putting out here about what we're going to do there, and we're going to do it, and we're going to do it. Believe me, against the backdrop of a colossal problem, which has literally gathered today a hole from the amount that was to be collected today to the budget, just 10 percent. It's a colossal signal both in our conscience and all you want us to vote for this bill today. And if you suddenly have to make some little adjustments.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u148	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u149	Because I am convinced that if we have to make any adjustments and refinements that life will bring into this bill, we will do so very quickly. We just have to vote for this bill today.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u150	Dear colleagues! We exchanged thoughts on the subject. There was criticism, it was fair, about violations of the Rules, and so forth. I'd like to introduce you to your well-known, distinguished colleagues, since you're going to be working with the electorate, I'd like to present you with this statistic, please. Second session. Of the 70 scheduled plenary meetings of the Supreme Council, 31 plenary meetings were not held at all, for various reasons. The third session, of the 81 scheduled plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, 24 plenary sessions were not opened or closed immediately after they were opened. I'm not taking any more statistics that talked about blocking the work of the Supreme Council. Another statistic. During the third session, 428 questions were considered. Of these, 9/12 C.E. - over 300. We started working, yes, there are problems, but we're gradually starting to introduce the Supreme Council of Ukraine into the normal workplace when it hasn't worked since 2006. [[Applause]] Therefore, honourable colleagues, in view of meeting the requirement of the Rules, I will now put to the vote a proposal for a second reading of the draft law now. [[Registration number 3556]] Please prepare for the vote. Consideration of Bill 3556 on amending some of Ukraine's pension insurance laws, i.e. withdrawing from the Rules. Ladies and gentlemen, we are on our way. Here we go. Dear colleagues, this is not a discussion. When the issue is discussed, we will speak. Please vote for inclusion in the agenda. More specifically, it's not about inclusion. [[13:08:53]] For 212 Dear colleagues, calm down. Change the vote. I ask you to give me the opportunity to work because I made a mistake saying “for inclusion in the agenda”. It's a day's work. So we need not include it, but simply to consider it today, by shortening the procedure for consideration between first and second readings, the time of consideration. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, please, calm down. Well, I'm an honorary national MP, and I want to tell you, dear colleague, I'm going to pick up the archive at home and show you when you wrote me a letter that I'm outstanding. And don't blame me for what you don't have. I want to say again that I made a technical mistake when I said, "I will put to the vote the inclusion in the agenda." It's a day's work. It has already been considered in the first reading. Now to shorten the time to consider it in the second question, to consider it today, it's a question. Here's the proposition. I am voting on a proposal to consider a bill to amend some of Ukraine's pension laws now. [[Registration number 3556]] Please vote. In the second reading. [[13:10:19]] For 216 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 0; "Timoshenko Yulia Block" – 155; "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" – 41; Communist faction – 0; "Lithuania Block" – 20. To complete this consideration, please ask the Minister of Social Policy and the work of Ludmila Denisov. Please. Well, dear colleagues, the minister was present, allow me to make a statement. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm a regularist, and I advise you to read it. That would be helpful to mention the letters.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u151	The honourable national deputies, unfortunately you did not support the government, did not support your fellow national MP Bondarenko, did not include this issue in a second reading. We've taken into account all the amendments that you've insisted on saving the pension scheme for agricultural producers, the rule on the pension mechanism, as decided by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, has been clarified. It's all worked out. Ladies and gentlemen, the pension is now paid in terms that are set. Unfortunately, it could be different in February. I look forward to supporting this bill so that it can balance the pension fund's budget and pay pensions in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u152	Vladimir Bondarenko, please initiate. Dear colleagues, no votes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u153	Vladimir Bondarenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. I would like to highlight just two points that apply to this law today. First. Indeed, there is a difficult situation in the Pension Fund. And everyone who's concerned today is doing it in words, and in fact not all of them, has to understand that, in fact, there is a period when there is nothing to pay any pension at all. So this is obviously part of the plans of those who have already highlighted the March-Month exit of people not the street, the strike in Kiev and so on, it goes into their plans. So the worse for them, the better. I would like to refer to the leadership of the Party of Regions, look at this position: it is anti - Ukrainian, anti - Ukrainian, it beats at the Pension Fund, and it beats at every pensioner. You have to think about it. And I'd like you to reconsider. And the second is that you came in yesterday and asked us to support the law that was yours, and we supported it. You are acting in the worst sense as if you had quit without giving a single voice today.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u154	Thank you. Mikola Kulczynski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u155	The parliamentary group “For Ukraine! ” I am generally impressed by the hypocrisy of the cowards, the professional cowards for the pensioners, and the entire Ukrainian people. Let us be honest to the end. On what basis will Ukraine’s Pension Fund be replenished? Small and close to small, medium-sized businesses, as they are offered a minimum premium to pay in full. So let's say we, the national deputies, the judges, the prosecutors who get 15, 20, 50 thousand pensions, why doesn't this law touch us? Let's fight for the people in real terms and set ourselves a maximum of 12 per capita pensions. The Pension Fund won't collapse. We will arrive on February 3rd for the session, and the amendments to the second reading will be registered, an amended bill will be passed out, and we will do everything right. Oh, no.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u156	Dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts. Too bad, please. Unfortunately, I do not see our will, at least to consider this issue today. Already in the voting process, it would be possible to determine whether or not to make a decision by reasoning on this point. Too bad. We all understand well that the problem needs to be solved. And the problem has to be solved for people to get pensions. I don't want to do moralism against whom we're going to do worse. That's why it's different. Is it possible to re-vote the return to consideration? [[B in m in s a l in]] If there are no votes, there is no voice, but you can see it. In order to maintain cleanliness and have everyone's position, I'm going to put to the vote the question of today's consideration of Bill 3556. Please vote. [[13:15:54]] For 218. The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, that's understandable. The factions, please. Region Party – 0, “Club of Timoshenko” – 155, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” – 43, Communist Block – 0, “Club of Lithuania – 20. Dear colleagues, we are moving on to the speeches of the National Deputies in the “Variable”. Please record your statements. Please show me the name of the national MPs who signed up. Bummer, please. Zabzaluk, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko”. Please pass it on to Good Guy.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u157	Dear Volodymyr Mihailovich, distinguished colleagues as the leader of the Ukrainian-Palestinian Friendship Group, As head of the Subcommittee on Global Security and International Cooperation of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I would like to make an unwarranted statement on the massive loss of the civilian population and the immediate cessation of fire and military opposition in the Gaza Strip.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u158	Excuse me, one minute. Please interrupt. Dear colleagues, yesterday we passed one law, I beg you not to depart, one clarification, please. Yesterday we passed the Law with you 0888 on support for young people, and there was technically “from January 1st 2008,” and we would like to introduce such an amendment. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw attention to this law under 400 votes. Come on, I ask you to support me, to make a point on this subject, “from the moment of publication”. Please vote. Please vote. [[13:18:56]] For 270. Clarification accepted, thank you, Your Honor. Count back time.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u159	The world was deeply impressed by bloody events in the Middle East. Israel, accusing the Palestinian Hamaz movement, which does not recognize Israel as a state, of violating the armistice and the mortar shelling of its territory since December 27, last year, launched the military operation "Lithium Lead" against the Palestinian movement "Hamaz" by shelling the Gaza Strip. Since January 4, 2009, Israel has carried out a second phase of the operation — the ground attack of its troops in the territory of Anclave. The Gaza Strip is a small area of the Palestinian territory of 360 square miles [360 sq km], where over one and a half million people live. Military action in this area, with the world’s largest population density, is in itself doomed to mass casualties among the civilian population and is unacceptable under international law. In the Gaza Strip, hundreds of homes, schools, hospitals, and shops were destroyed, and hundreds of people were killed and injured. Doctors do not have access to remote areas that have been bombarded by Israeli forces. Journalists and doctors accused Israel of using prohibited weapons using white phosphorous and bursting bullets. In 20 days, the parties suffered heavy losses: more than a thousand Palestinians were killed, hundreds of them civilians, about 250 people were children, 5,000 were injured, 500 of them in critical condition, 13 were also killed, three of them civilians and 135 injured. During the Israeli shelling of the Gaza Strip, some 300 Ukrainians suffered, and on January 7, Ukraine and its two - year - old son were killed by a mistake in firing an Israeli tank. In summary, I consider the urgent need for the salvation of peaceful inhabitants. I declare my support for the UN Security Council Resolution and the efforts of the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Mr. Gimun, to put an immediate end to the fire and military opposition in the Gaza Strip. All issues relating to the settlement of the Middle East conflict must be resolved exclusively by peaceful, diplomatic means with the participation of world mediators.: The United States, the Russian Federation, the countries of the European Union and the Arab States, primarily Saudi Arabia and Egypt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u160	Zubov People's Deputy, faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u161	Valentin Zubov, "Bloka Yulii Timoshenko" faction. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues are the people's deputies! Indeed, this week the Supreme Council has been working very actively, productively, and a decree has been adopted among many of the bills that, on a dignified meeting and a celebration on the occasion of the 65th anniversary of the victory of the Soviet people in the Great Homeland War. Why am I going back to this decision? In this regulation, we have provided for a number of serious activities to celebrate this outstanding date and have made provision for the necessary funds. But at the same time, I recall Robert's words during the Christmas restructuring period when he said, "It's easy to be brave if you're allowed." Thus, in this regard, I can say, in this context, that it is easy to be good at the State account, at the expense of the State budget. And let's think about what we personally are, every national MP can do to perpetuate the memory of those who died in this terrible war. Today it is far, far away, and everyone knows that the people's deputies are not the poorest people. Let us take the initiative in the context that many of the people’s deputies, especially the oligarchs, today have been drawn to the construction of Christian temples and that is good, especially what they have to paint. But today, tens of thousands of monuments to the dead Soviet soldiers are destroyed, not in large cities, but in villages, villages, in steppes. But let us, for the past year and a half, remain until that date, make a commitment because the law cannot do so. And we'll take every single monument, put it in order. And as a result, in 1.5 years, 900 monuments throughout Ukraine will look worthy of the heroic path that our warriors have done and their feat. Once again, I stress, almost once again, that it is not possible to force the people's deputies to do so by law, but the Committee on Veterans Affairs can address every national MP by giving him the opportunity to choose a monument for himself in any territory in any area of Ukraine. And let him put him in order. I understand that questions are coming to me, and I appeal to you, do I have the right to call? I'll say yes, because three years ago in the village of Prisip Slavinsky district of Donetsk, together with the members of the Slavyan Mountains Council, we made a classy monument where 287 Soviet soldiers were buried. I can't talk to my colleagues in any other way.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u162	Vladimir Bondarenko, faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Get ready for Porubia.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u163	Vladimir Bondarenko, Timoshenko Yuli Block. Dear friends, and especially I am addressing the Chianas from this rostrum today. The problem with Kiev is that the Kiev authorities are inadequate. And this situation that is unfolding in Kiev today shows that any action that needs to be taken today in a crisis is not going to be taken by this authority. Lie detectors, some choices, some so - called public hearings, will continue to be sought, but problems will not be solved. No questions have been resolved in the residential area of Kiev during the period of work of Leonid Chernivetsky. No service standards, no counters, no network technical status. This field is operated by the well-known political power of the Party of Regions, whose representatives are, in fact, the owners of Kievenergo and lead KiivenergoHolding, indeed, he holds his avoir on Cyprus. And I would like to point out that this activity has led to the fact that today the city of Kiev has failed to pay off more than a billion dollars because of its free will, economic helplessness, and sometimes criminal actions of the city’s Kiev authorities, as well as its gas - operated services. This undermines the state's ability to account for gas with Russia, which is now creating the possibility of shutting the city of Kiev away from heat supply. Today, we need to remember how Chernewsky acted in his election when he distributed millions, tens, and hundreds of millions of dollars of so - called gifts to people. Then he took these gifts away from some categories of wage budgeters as well as premium funds. Today, however, questions have arisen about the introduction of paid medicine in Kiev. A project is being discussed, according to which even after a doctor’s request, a person should pay for other treatment facilities. In the meantime, he has paid for lunch with him -- $10,000 or $50,000 should be paid by the one who has lunch with the Chernewsky. That is, a corrupt scheme that is accompanied by large sums of money, which gives access to local authority, contrary to the Local Self-Government Act, only to the people who have these 50 or 10 or more thousand. That's what his deputy Dennis Bass is doing today, Kielczycka, is going to take for money, they say. I already took it for big money once, I don't know if she took it for less money before, maybe. So I would like to point out that the Attorney General's office is closing its eyes on the city of Kiev. Who is giving instructions to the prosecution today? One who apparently has some gain from it. I would like to refer to the President's Secretariat, which, if necessary, quickly regulates the areas in which they have an interest in order. Provide order in the capital city of Kiev. Because today, Chernewsky is abusing the population, including people who understand that he is abusing the president and you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u164	The People's Deputy of Paris, the faction of Our People's Self-Defense.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u165	Paubai Andry, faction of "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense", MP group "For Ukraine". Dear countrymen, in the near future, will observe two very important dates and close to one another. This is the 90th anniversary of the evil of the Ukrainian People's Republic and the Western Ukrainian People's Republic, and the 91st anniversary of the heroic feat of the students under the Kruts. These two events were extremely important for the establishment of the Ukrainian State, for the establishment of Ukrainian self-awareness. But today we need to remember that these events are not only important to us as history. They remain relevant today. And today Ukraine is remarkably similar to what happened at the beginning of the last century. And then Russia, whether red, Bolshevik or biological, saw the main task -- to destroy Ukraine as a state, and could not accept Ukrainian statehood. And then a lot of Ukrainian politicians, those who belonged to the left camp, said that Ukraine didn't need an army, because they said we were fighting, because next to the same socialist Russia. Many of the left-wing politicians have called for an army to be eliminated in Ukraine, and there is no need for it. And it led to the fact that when Muraviov’s hordes of bloody animal killings were on their way to Kiev, there was no one to protect the capital of our country. And only 300 young Rotary boys were able to enter a heroic victory battle and die fighting for Ukraine. There's an old saying that someone who doesn't feed their army feeds a stranger. And unfortunately, today, when we voted on the budget, when we doubled the funding of the Ukrainian army, this unfortunately reminds us of a time when Ukraine does not remember the historic challenges when Ukraine, in its pursuit of political intrigue, forgets the main thing, the protection and value of the Ukrainian State. This ends with Ukraine losing its state and then famine, killing tens of millions of Ukrainians. Likewise today, we face trials with provocative acts of separatism in various parts of Ukraine. From East Ukraine, Crimea to Carpathians we see flashes there, there are provocative actions that provoke separatism in Ukraine. We remember that 90 years ago, while being historically in other states, Ukrainians longed for unity and demonstrated that all efforts to divide Ukrainians were artificial. Ukraine has one great, only nation. So, bearing in mind that period, we need to realize that the best memory of the heroes of Krut, the heroes who fought in the Ukrainian People's Republic, the Western Ukrainian People's Republic, the best memory of them will be the construction of a large Ukraine that will be united when the most important slogan for all Ukrainians and politicians is “Ukraine – above all”.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u166	Not one minute, 10 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u167	And then their political parties, when we build Ukraine like this, will be the best monument for our great, heroic predecessors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u168	The People's Deputy of Argevite, the faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Get ready, Sulkovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u169	I have a commission as chairman of the Board of Association of Commercial Banks to give a speech, an association of commercial banks to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. “Dear National Deputies of Ukraine! Banks, as unique institutions for the accumulation of temporarily free population and economic resources and directing them through credit mechanisms to the needs of the country’s production and economic processes. It is thanks to the operation of the principal cost involved that the banks around the world have increased regulatory requirements, and the stability of the banking system, the protection of the interests of investors, the ensuring the timeliness of the accounts and payments are absolute priorities of the economic policy of most nations. Unfortunately, Ukraine is not one of them. In the context of the global financial crisis, parliaments and governments in virtually all countries are directing huge amounts of money to support the banking sector as a guarantee of non-financial collapse. This support is being implemented through government participation in the capital of banks, the redemption of their lost assets as a result of a crisis of assets, the provision of financial assistance to certain categories of borrowers to provide them with credit services. Having taken the right first steps to support the Ukrainian banking system, unfortunately, in the future the Supreme Council has embarked on a path of legislative populism, adopting or approving at the committee level a whole package of bills aimed at supporting the interests of debtors at the expense of banks, their creditors and customers. For example. If only one bill was adopted to compensate for the exchange rate difference at the rate of the loans granted, the price could have been twice as high as the capital of the banking system itself. And that would indicate the bankruptcy of the banking system, the cessation of all payments in Ukraine. None of these bills are designed to protect the rights of creditors as a stabilizing factor in the lending activities of banks, to which the association has repeatedly stressed. On the contrary, they are aimed at increasing the cost of banking activity, and some are simply encouraging borrowers to stop lending as a result of which only the destruction of the national banking system, the cessation of financing the economy, the acceleration of the decline in production, unemployment and the massive failure of deposits to investors whose interests the national electorate is fighting in the anti-crisis momentum. The Association of Ukrainian Banks also informs legislators that 10 to 40 percent of GDP will be damaged if proven to be unprofessional in the banking system to bankrupt society. The Association of Ukrainian Banks believes that the new leadership of the Supreme Council of Ukraine can change the direction of legislative action to support the economy and the banking sector of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u170	National Deputy Paul Sulkovsky Faction of the Party of the Regions, the next will be by Boris Tarasyuk, who is given the right to speak by the Kamchatny People’s Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u171	Honorable National Deputies, reverend people of Ukraine! Paul Sulkovsky faction of the Party of the Regions, Ravenshkin. The faction of the Party of the Regions is concerned about the situation in Ukraine today. Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin, Head of the Supreme Council, spoke a month ago about the situation in Ukraine: the President, the Prime Minister of the Supreme Council, should immediately meet and discuss seriously the situation in Ukraine, the internal political and foreign policy, and tell the people of Ukraine where we are taking Ukraine and its people. However, as we have seated the chair of the Supreme Council, this question is never called to mind. What's that? This is the deception of the Ukrainian people. Vladimir Litwin did everything with Julia Timoshenko to sit in the chair of the Supreme Council. And thus allowing the free government of Julia Timoshenko and Victor Yushchenko to delay time, and this time for the people of Ukraine is a disaster. Because these oranges are unable in Ukraine to do good and improve the lives of their own people. You see, full production collapses, factories, factories stop, small and medium-sized businesses are in danger of paying pensions and wages. Ukraine is under threat of energy supplies. If this difficult policy persists for another few months, Ukraine will face a problem such as food security. That's what you're going to do, Your Honor, don't shout, Victor Yushchenko for his own people, for the nation, for the pure hands, for the beautiful populist life of the people of Ukraine. What happened in four years with Ukraine, which led to life from a small to a large Ukrainian. Ukraine is leading to an extremely difficult, unforeseeable situation. And that says that Ukraine is destined for a beautiful future. Yushchenko was then manipulating his native people that the Ukrainians lost their savings of 130 billion at the time of the collapse of the Soviet Union. What happened in Ukraine today? There is no collapse of the Union unless your faction of “Our Ukraine” has fallen apart. Yushchenko is a financier, led by the long term of Nazbank. And no one, like Yushchenko, gets information on the situation every day as President. And so today, Ukraine has twice as much investment as it has in the Soviet Union. On the contrary, speculation in the foreign exchange market has been launched with its impenetrable policy. And I believe it is the same crime committed against its Ukrainian people. The people of Ukraine lost twice as much money as they lost in the Union. And to the President, I think Yushchenk, the people never do.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u172	Thirty seconds, please finish. It's an interesting performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u173	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, you told the people of Ukraine that a coalition was formed. There's no such thing as a coalition. There are no 226 votes. There is no one to take responsibility for the state of affairs in the state. Again, this speaks of the deception of the people. You drive around Ukraine and say, "No one thinks for the people of Ukraine but you." This is not true. The Kuchma regime, in which you worked for many years, led Ukraine to poverty by 90 percent in 10 years, enriching only five percent — the rich, the corrupt, and so on. That is why it is not necessary to manipulate, but it is necessary to start forming the majority of deputies immediately from February.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u174	Time. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u175	Which would take the responsibility to form.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u176	Thank you. Dear colleagues, allow me, since the name was mentioned, a replica. I would first recommend that the term “Ukrainian people” be used, as required by the Constitution. That's the first one. The other one. With regard to the President's invitation to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. You talk to the President every day. Invite him to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Third. With regard to responsibility. I would like to remind you once again, dear colleagues, that the second session of the Supreme Council was blocked by every second plenary session. I'll ask you next to prepare for whose proposal it was blocked. The third session of the 81st scheduled plenary meeting of 24 did not begin at all. We will publish, for whose reason, on whose proposals the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has been transferred, and we, and I have taken responsibility, realizing that there will be little political victory. And one more thing. I would advise you to be simpler in your performances so that people can see that it's easier to go nowhere. [[Applause]] Boris Tarasyuk, “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u177	Boris Tarasyuk, National Movement of Ukraine, NU-NS. God protects us from such cowards and advocates of the Ukrainian people as the previous speaker. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to make a statement from the National Movement of Ukraine regarding the situation of gas supply to Ukraine and Europe by the Russian Federation. Every year in December, citizens of European countries, including Ukraine, are horrified to expect that this time Putin’s gas supply regime may be cut short. Everyone has become accustomed to blackmail, lying claims, and intimidation, but for the first time, we have all faced brutal violations and actual neglect of Russia’s contractual obligations. This year, Russian leadership demonstrated its uncivilized essence in a brutal and cynical way throughout Europe. Of course, we are well aware that the Russian authoritarian regime’s herd of attacks was directed at Ukraine. During the past year, there was an unprecedented information war against Ukraine using controlled media. The allegations that the Ukrainians were saying they were stealing gas were the softest expressions of Russian politicians that have spoken in recent times. We understand very well that Russia is sleeping and seeing Ukraine on its knees, which, after such a massive attack, should have given its largest gas transport system in Europe. But there was a breach. Russia did not consider that, unlike the January 2006 situation, Ukraine had enough gas to withstand the attack and provide its citizens with gas and heat. Since 2005, Russia has consistently used blackmail and intimidation to punish Ukraine for democratic transformation. The huge gap in democratic values practiced by Ukraine and Russia has become a bone in the throats of Russian chauvinists, who use gas to corrupt Ukraine’s image. Russia’s second gas crisis demonstrates the new quality of Russian gas monopolies, which is used as a tool for international pressure. In addition to military aggression against Georgia and disregarding international rules of conduct in part concerning the European Energy Charter, Russia is demonstrating to the international community its uncivilized and aggressive nature. At the same time, everyone was able to see with their own eyes what the Kremlin leaders were capable of using gas as a weapon to challenge the entire civilized Europe. For the purpose of applying blackmail during the winter cold season, Russia stubbornly refuses to make long - term contracts with Ukraine for gas supply and transit.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u178	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u179	in the western direction with transparent conditions that meet the European Energy Charter. By the way, Russia, which has recently mentioned the existence of this Charter, stubbornly refuses to ratify it and adhere to its principles, thus reaffirming its uncivilized behaviour in gas supply. Ukraine should demand the transfer of European prices to the Russian gas transit territory of our country. We have to stop subsidizing Russia's economy by setting an unwarranted transit tariff that is three to five times lower than the market rate. Moreover, we should make contracts for the transit of Russian gas, not with Gazprom, but with European consumers directly. As for the average European gas price, 450 or so.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u180	Boris Ivanovich, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u181	Four hundred and seventy dollars, which are so fond of mentioning and admiring the Kremlin’s cartridges.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u182	Thank you. Microphone. I can't because I'm being blamed now, it'll take extra time. Please, come on, we'll distribute it. So the previous one was just four minutes in, and the previous one is going to control me and blame me. I'm sorry. Please. And Oleg Belarus can give you time if you want. Oleg Grigorovich Belarus gives Yagoffer the right to speak, and he wrote about it so that there are no questions asked.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u183	Dear Head, citizens of Ukraine”! Despite the hysterical cries of some factions, today we are pleased to note that Parliament is functioning normally, and it adopts dozens of laws, including social orientation. The government works in crisis management. There are signs of increased cooperation between the President and the government. I think that the gas war, the use of gas as weapons in bilateral relations against Ukraine, should unite Ukrainian citizens. The global financial crisis has yet to bring us citizens of Ukraine closer together, for without such a race of forces, we will not be able to get out of this situation. The gas conflict between Russia and Ukraine was not caused by Ukraine's fault – it is now clear not only to the citizens of Ukraine but also to the representatives of the whole world. Ukraine has always advocated a fair, equitable, mutually beneficial relationship. Today, this conflict has become a global and global problem. Some 40,000 miles [40,000 km] of gas transport networks in Ukraine, 150 billion cubic meters [150 billion cubic metres] of gas transit per year, is too much of a potential to be ignored by such powerful associations, including the European Union. The solution to the problem today, as the negotiations show, lies in the ways of real, effective internationalization. It means creating an international consortium, but not the bilateral or triangular one that some countries have previously thought of -- Russia, Germany and the European Union -- but the multilateral one, as a minimum of 30 countries that produce, transport and consume gas, will provide a balanced and fair approach to the distribution of the results of the gas house. We stand for the total depoliticization of the gas supply, and the gas weapons have to be thrown into the trash. And that's why we're talking about the organization of security and cooperation.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u184	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u185	We are in favour of a full economy of gas supply and gas use, taking into account everyone's interests fairly, and it is finally the time for full integration, Ukraine's unique global gas transit economy into the European Union's economic and cooperation system.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u186	Thank you. Lie down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u187	This will give investment and modernisation to our economy.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u188	Thank you. Mikola Haritonovich Shershun. Please, Your Honor, follow the Rules. Mikola Haritonovich Shershun. The next one will be the national deputy of the Kings. To whom, will you act? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u189	Mikola Shershun, "Litvina Block" faction. Dear Head, my fellow Members, I would like to draw your attention to the problem of violating the rights of participants in the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl AES accident by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. A ministry that should primarily protect the interests of those to whom we owe our health and even our lives. Repeatedly, I have been addressed to and continued to be addressed by participants in the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl AES accident, referred to 1st and 2nd categories concerning violations of their rights while receiving additional leave and retaining the wages provided for by the Ukrainian law on the status of social protection for citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. Such situations arise when citizens who are referred to the first and second categories of victims of the Chernobyl disaster are ill while on extra leave. Employers, including in state institutions, refuse to continue additional leave during temporary incapacity, referring to a letter of clarification from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine. The letter says that in the event that holidays and nonworking days occur on additional leave, it will not be extended on these days, which is totally wrong and does not comply with Ukrainian legislation. At my request, at the request of the Committee, the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine carried out a legal expertise paper by Minpraci and explained that under the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster, annual leave should be carried over for a different period or extended, particularly in the event of temporary disability of the employee, as well as in the event that holidays and non-working days are due for additional leave. I would like to point out to my colleagues that a letter from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, in fact, has established new legal rules that affect the rights, freedoms and legitimate interests of citizens, which violates the legislation on state registration of legal acts. It is extremely sad that thousands of people are suffering from the finding of the wrongfulness of the letter mentioned above. I demand that the letter from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy be removed immediately and that employers be provided with appropriate clarification. And those officials who violate Ukrainian legislation and give such wrong explanations that violate citizens’ rights and interests must be held accountable. Please consider my statement an official request to the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u190	National MP Kzarykov, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u191	Dear President, distinguished voters, respectable people's deputies of Ukraine! The presentation was sent slightly to the other side, and I will also try to raise the issue of raids in Odessa, but neither the faction nor I could not but be declared “Our Ukraine” again. The anti-communist, once hysterical and anti-Russian, two, and the Lungs of the two peoples of Russia and Ukraine over the gas negotiations and the gas war as they called it. Well, first of all, I'm going to say not only the faction, but also the commission, the TSC, which is working today on the third day and all the officials: both Dubina and the leader of the UkrTransgas have admitted in closed meetings that two people are to blame. One of them is the President of Ukraine. And that Dubina would have come at a price of 201 if it hadn't been for the President's intervention and his environment. Second question. Let's see why we bought 179 gas from brother Russia, and each of you, every Ukrainian citizen, paid 330. And where the structures of Brother Yushchenko "Petragaz" are going to look for roots. No official wants to answer that question today. Second question. Let us look at the level of response of the President and his environment to the disaster that has taken place today in the oil and gas sector. We have the largest enterprises, including the Odessa Porting Plant, and Yushchenko and the secretariat are sending instructions to the sites to find alternative sources of fuel. And there are documents, such as Governor Yushchenko Serduk Odessa District, that we have the Odessa 2nd in Ukraine on stocks of straw. And today it proposes that all schools, all budgetary institutions, be converted to straw. Here's your level, here's the faction level, here's our Ukraine and this president. Finally, I would like to say that the work of the Commission, however the representatives of your faction may be there, will be criminalized and the heads of the secretariat, and personally the entities to which Yushchenko is involved with his brother and those who have disrupted the gas negotiations. Once again, I urge you not to encounter two fraternal peoples -- Russian and Ukrainian in this dirty war, which has been waged by the orange marasmatics and nationalists themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u192	Igor Kaletnik, Communist faction. The following will be the national deputy, Korge. The thing is, we can't make it, too bad. Please. Let's invest in five minutes. Then our colleague Who, and we will conclude on this.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u193	Cauliflower, Communist faction. Dear colleagues! Respectable compatriots! Under the Constitution, human rights and freedoms are the primary responsibility of the State. The main source of power in Ukraine is the people. However, today’s leaders are concerned, not with constitutional obligations, but with the protection of citizens’ interests, but with their own ambitions and riches. Systemic corruption has completely replaced government. The economic crisis has led to the total poverty of citizens and has put the country on the verge of breaking down. According to the United Nations in 2008, Ukraine has settled 76 places alongside Colombia and Samoa. The income of 60 percent of the population in Ukraine is only enough for food. According to available figures, industrial production decreased by about 30 percent in November alone. In metallurgy, the figure reached 50 percent. The country is living in debt, the total amount of external borrowing has doubled last year, the government debt is projected to increase by another 103 billion dollars this year. However, capable officials, even the crisis, were able to benefit themselves. The National Currency Prize for the Banking Mafia has resulted in billions of U.S. dollars being placed in its own pocket. Some fraudsters have been able to gain wealth at the expense of the workers. As a result of the abuse of several financial institutions close to the Bank, hundreds of thousands of Ukrainian citizens have been deprived of their means of livelihood, jobless, and no prospect of improving their lives. Several corrupters have put the country on the brink of failure. In the meantime, the Security Service and the Attorney General have so far failed to give proper credit to the criminal activity and to the bankers and officials who contributed to it. Not yet placed dots in the investigation of currency market fraud, and the country is faced with a new disaster — a gas conflict. In addition to the problems caused by the world financial crisis, Ukraine today suffers from the fierce struggle of the oligaric clans over the gas pipe. According to the long and incomprehensible explanations of the first humans, the nations hide their own business interests. The long-term brokerage in the energy market remains a source of income and no matter who's in the gears, ITERA, Eurotransgas, Rossukrenerego, Firtash – only names change, and business and stakeholders remain unchanged. Pragmatic Europe focused on studying the technical problems of transporting gas. But it's useless, because it's not about technical security, it's about large-scale corruption schemes. The fight against corruption is only simulated. In fact, there are many free and empty decisions that officials do not even gather to make. The main problem in Ukraine is not the lack of laws and regulations, but the critical low level of implementation. The irreparability of punishment is just a principle enshrined in the Criminal Code, but when it comes to high-ranking officials it is always possible. The government apparatus that is working on itself has become a weightless burden for the people. Officials’ appetites grow daily. Not long ago, apartment and car were the best things to do. Today, it is not uncommon for private airplanes and possessions to be found on exotic islands. Many government officials are lacking in power or time because they spend on bribes and beatings. Such officials are not even interested in the size of their own wages. Their main income is the money that citizens bring, as a thank - you note, has gone through dozens of offices of proud intercessors, helpers, and secretaries. For each such paper, on the one hand, thanks to the official, on the other, millions of damages to the state. One can only imagine the market value of the land for which the head of the Brovary Reservoir of Didenko received a bribe of $42 million from the United States. But what are the claims against a district level official if the former president of the Supreme Council ex-governor of Lvivščina Olijnik, in his own office on a permanent basis, arranged for the transfer of bribes. There is no area where the governor is not a full - fledged host and steward of all things moving and immobile. Yes, hundreds of miles [100 km] of coastline of the Black Seas and the Azoves in Hersonian Seas are owned by well - founded individuals. At the same time, Governor Silenkov seems to stay away. In a land of lawlessness, where each law - enforcement officer himself had to exercise the necessary influence on the situation by a judicial branch of authority. However, the free action of the President and his surroundings not only shattered elements of government leadership but also threatened the existence of judicial authority in Ukraine. Instead of improving the efficiency of the judiciary, the judicial structure is being destroyed. A strong and responsible authority can correct such a shameful situation. The people were tired of the constant quarrels, the mutual accusations of today’s leaders.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u194	Ten seconds. Well, we're out of time.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u195	The Ukrainian Communist Party is ready to bring order to the country and ensure the welfare of its citizens. The Communists have repeatedly demonstrated their ability to handle such challenges. During the postwar years, the industry was restored in a short period of time, and the use of violence and banditry was halted. People were given a stable job and confidence in tomorrow. That is exactly what the people of Ukraine need today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u196	Thank you. Vitaly Terentiyovich Korge. One last speech, my dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u197	Vitaly Corge, BUT faction. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! You and I have talked a lot and heard a lot about energy, heat, and cold. We need to draw conclusions and get to work. What are the conclusions, and what kind of work should be started? First, let's stop praying for gas from Russia and look at our own possibilities. Because these longtime prayers, for example in my Chernigiv region, have resulted in the total elimination of two powerful thorphobic plants that provided reliable fuel to several areas of Ukraine. When praying for gas, people put huge money into gasification, some destroyed stoves in houses, and now no gas. And this is because the existing peat deposits in Montenegro are confidently providing for the needs of the entire region for the next 150 years. We need to restore the work of thorphobic plants immediately, which I am already hitting all the bells about for the third year in a row. Second, a review of financial relations with Russia. Well, tell me, how much longer does it take to gain courage and determination, to take the experience of the Baltic countries, their patriotic stand in relations with Russia? Russian supplies to Ukraine, Russian gas transport through Ukraine, Russian troops in Ukraine, Russian media presence in Ukraine and on concert scenes, bookkeeping and distribution systems, languages and literature, etc., are behind these and other activities with financial interests that have been given priority and privileges to the Russian side. And that's why, thirdly, the extermination of the “Rosukrenergo” which, from the very beginning of this disgraceful creation, Yulia Timoshenko spoke of its corrupt origin, and which, in the eyes of the whole world, is fat at the expense of the Ukrainian people. The elimination of this so-called mediator is a matter of our national dignity. Fourth. Our own oil and gas deposits in Ukraine are well-known in Moscow, and Ukrainian presidents appear to be unaware of them. True, the blade came out of the bag when under the comfort of the guarantor, the Wenko-Durchen equipment was carried out. Had it not been for the timely intervention of today’s government, Russia would soon have sold us our gas from our homeland.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u198	Let me finish. I'm telling you, finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u199	And last of all, control. Almost always appear, around the realization of any good good ideas in Ukraine almost always appear wanting to tear down a piece of pie. So I think we've all matured to finally set up a national control committee in the state with the necessary powers, especially so that no one can play on the islands at the expense of the fact that our people are freezing out here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-16-m0.u200	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the speeches are over. Let me remind you that according to our decision to change the calendar plan for the holding of the third session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call from January 19 to 23, the National Deputies are working on committees and factions. And next week, from January 26th to January 30th, in constituencies, that is, in places. The next plenary meeting will take place on Tuesday 3 February at 10 a.m. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed.
