ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-26-m0.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, in order to make the announcement I will do so, we will open up, after the announcement, we will close the meetings and we will not consider any questions today -- this is the decision of the Conciliation Council. And I'll inform you about the decision of the Conciliation Board. So, for starters, I'd like you, your honors, to prepare for registration. Ready, that's it. Turn on the "Race" system. [[Registration of Ukrainian National Deputies]] [[11:40:20]] They registered in the 288 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is open. Ladies and gentlemen, let me inform you of the outcome of the Conciliation Council. Today a key issue has been discussed, and the reason for blocking the rostrum is that one requirement is to consider today, in the final edition, the law, which provides new indicators for minimum wage, minimum subsistence minimum or, vice versa, minimum wage. The proposal came from the Party of the Regions -- to review this law today and to make a decision -- because yesterday there was no support for the proposal to prepare for the second reading of this bill under a reduced procedure. My suggestion was how to compromise today in the session room to vote in favour of a reduced procedure, i.e. for the next plenary week, to prepare for consideration in the session room. And in order to find common positions and common approaches, to create a working group with the participation of the budget committee, with the participation of the initiators, of course, a bill and other profiling committees involved in the drafting of the bill, and above all with the participation of government officials, and at the same time to propose changes to the budget. Because it's clear that when you make this decision without any budget changes, this decision will never work, it will be purely propaganda. Unfortunately, I have to say that this proposal was not supported, especially by the faction of the Party of the Regions. So the consultations will continue, and then I announce that the morning meeting of the Supreme. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, I want to tell you that we have agreed that the consultation and meeting of the Conciliation Board will continue, that we will not consider questions, there are almost 140 of them, there are parliamentary questions, just as we have today to agree and decide on the staffing and staffing assignments. But under these conditions, you know perfectly well that we can't work. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. We'll continue our plenary work on July 7th this year. A meeting of the Conciliation Council will take place on July 6.
