ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:08]] There were 429 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Shemczuk Viktorovich. Please welcome our colleague and wish him success. Dear colleagues, I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in plenary meetings on 3 November 2009. Five issues of order were considered: one law had been passed, one draft decree had been adopted, and three bills had been rejected. Dear colleagues, yesterday we discussed with you a fundamental question about the situation with regard to the spread of pandemic flu in Ukraine and urgent measures to combat this scourge. It was agreed that this morning we would consider a draft decision that was developed on the basis and on the basis of proposals from MPs, MPs. In view of the many proposals that have been made, and the committee is working on them, the committee requests that today they have the opportunity to finalize the draft decree and bring all proposals from deputies and factions to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for consideration tomorrow morning. Is there no objection? Thank you. In accordance with article 25 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, 30 minutes are allocated on Wednesday for public speaking. Please sign up for the performance. Yes, Roman Zvaric, faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Paul Zebravsky. Next will be the national deputy of Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u2	Good afternoon, dear fellows! And I want to express my point of view about what is happening today with the epidemic that so much is being talked about. I would like to point out that those who sow serious panic and those who tell you that you urgently have to run to the pharmacies, buy everything that's gone down, get rid of antibiotics and all the other drugs, to my deep conviction, do well if it's not a crime, do bad service to the Ukrainian people. And for today, I was listening to the Prime Minister's speech yesterday, and they were supposed to talk about the serious prevention of this disease, so that they wouldn't let the flu get sick, not what drugs, how powerful they get from abroad. In fact, those drugs that come from abroad should only be used limitedly when there is actually an illness. And to encourage, to speak, to advertise various preparations from the high-rise, parliamentary rostrum, is unfair. In fact, we have to think that enough drugs are chemicals, and they affect other organs. And today, I would like to emphasize once again, speaking only to the MPs of the Ukrainian Parliament, but to the Ukrainian people, on the grounds that, dear friends, we need to focus primarily on prevention of the disease, in order not to allow these things, and only in cases of extreme need to take some drugs, because what is being done in pharmacies today is nothing other than some psychosis that can be called psychosis. Because it's easy to buy, the last money to spend on drugs is wrong, it's harmful to a serious degree to people's health. And today we need to do those. Buying those drugs that improve the immune system is usually very low-cost drugs that are not made on a chemical basis, and if we make a serious prevention, we will not allow such powerful chemicals to affect our body. I would like to emphasize once again that onions, garlic, eczema, other drugs that are homeopathically made, which are natural -- this is the main prerequisite that we don't get sick and we don't have major deaths. And those who encourage and advertise drugs actually do bad service to the Ukrainian people, including the Prime Minister and all the authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u3	The Pavlovsky People’s Deputy hands over the right to speak to Olga Bodnar, a faction. "Julia Tymoshenko Block," I'm sorry. Next up will be Mikola Kulczynski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u4	National Deputy Olga Bodnar, Timoshenko Street. Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! Respectable citizens! It is quite common for our team to solve problems that result from the thoughtless and often destructive activities of the local authorities of Kiev. In September of this year, I was approached, as curator of the Desnian District by the Yulia Timoshenko Block, by the disillusioned and abandoned community workers of the Residentialmbudsman, in the right-wing district of Kiev, asking them to help them get a salary that they had not paid in July of this year, which was 1,650 for a moment. The constant rises in the size of municipal tariffs in Kiev and the totally uncontrollable situation regarding the relevance of their increase have led to huge debts to creditors, external organizations, the Kiev Channel, household waste management services, and so on, amounting to 60 million dollars. As a result of the conflicts that lasted several years, creditors in the Kyivwater Channel person filed a lawsuit and placed an arrest on the account of the Housing Booth Service. The critical situation with debt was that the capital authorities did not in time compensate the municipal companies for the difference in tariffs. By the way, she hasn't done it until today. In fact, these actions have led Kiev’s utilities to be purposefully bankrupt at present, making them easy to gain from those who want to take over the capital’s municipal property and its sphere of activity. The situation with three months of blocking the company’s accounts was becoming increasingly uncontrollable. The right - hand region had every chance of being littered with unscrambled garbage that would cause environmental degradation in the area and create negative social tensions among its 350,000 inhabitants. On September 10, 2009, the public officials held a protest rally involving more than a thousand people in front of the Righteous RDA. The workers threatened to stop their duties and set out to start an act of hunger - stricken rebellion. The efforts of the Director of the Housing Buttervis utility and on the basis of my remarks have managed to resolve this conflict in some way. Jurists of the “Timoshenko Block” worked out a scheme for resolving the issue through a committee on labour disputes. And it was only then that the publicist began to pay off the unpaid salary, which amounted to 11 million dollars. This is a critical situation when district utilities are effectively overthrown by urban authority in the capital. In particular, the communers of the Golossian district of Kiev have a six-month debt before.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u5	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u6	A similar situation is the case in the region of Thessalonica, where some 12 million dollars were owed to municipal workers. I would like to point out that, at present, in the Desnian region, the issue of public utility debt has been fully resolved. And this positive fact is all thanks to the work of the Timoshenko Block in the area. But today there are still dangers, the great dangers that lie in the fact that there is a debt to the program “My House, My Court”, set up by the Mayor of Chernobyl, his team, is 5 million dollars. What's more, I'm warning you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u7	Thank you. Your time is up. Mikola Kulczynski refers to Vijacheslav Kirilenko, the faction of "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense". Next up will be Michael Schershung.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u8	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “For Ukraine! ” Dear colleagues, honourable voters, the public movement “For Ukraine!” welcomes the efforts of all those who are really struggling with the flu epidemic, rather than engaging in their own political self-advertisement, because unfortunately, they are willing to do more than enough. But we are obliged to pay attention to things that we cannot keep quiet about. Soon, a week like Ukraine in epidemic mode, and the mask and antiviral drugs are both gone and gone, regardless of the government's victorious relations and reports and its leadership, citizens still can't buy enough even minimal self-defense. Yesterday, for example, my family and loved ones in the largest city in the Kyiv region of the Bila Church visited all the pharmacies that are in the city and no drugstores have been found. Because pharmacies, executives, and simple shopkeepers in the pharmacies that stand there say, “We could buy those masks, but not at the same price as the maximum. If there is a possibility of selling masks on a bracelet of twenty, we cannot do it in pharmacies because we have to buy no more than 73 copies.” And so the government is proposing that Ukrainian citizens be left without protection, without masks, and without drugs, there's no way of knowing how much time, because there's a price limit. Obviously, such an approach is unproductive. Because if you carefully study the issue, it turns out that in Ukraine, according to official data from the Ministry of Health, 22 percent are state and municipal pharmacies, while the rest are private and collective. So the marginal prices can be set in state and municipal pharmacies, in these networks and there they can be sold at the price set by the government. However, there are enough people in Ukraine who can buy a mask not for 1 bracelet but for 1 bracelet for 20 copies and protect themselves and their family. And they could buy this mask at that price on a network of private pharmacies or pharmacies with a collective form of property. So we call for an end to baseless terror against honest people who just sell stuff in pharmacies and to allow people to fill the counters and buy self-defense at different prices. And the last. We are convinced that if all the first officials really think about fighting the epidemic, not self-advertising, we should see a joint meeting at the hands of the President of Ukraine, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Council and the leader of the opposition, after which there will be a joint briefing on the fight against the epidemic, not on the subject of our own political self-proclaims, which unfortunately we have seen most recently. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u9	Mikola Shershun, Lithuanian Block faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u10	Mikola Shershun, Block Lithuania. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Each of us knows that today the system of Ukraine's agro-industry complex is experiencing far from the best times of its development, particularly with regard to agriculture, which primarily requires serious support from the state. This is evident from the numerous appeals that come to us. Most complaints arise through gaps in existing land laws because they do not correspond to the reality of what is written in the law. As a result, countless baseless criminal cases against land users are being violated. Thus, a meeting of the Association of Farmers and Private Landowners of Ukraine with the Head of the Supreme Council, Litvin Volodymyr Mikhailovich, was held to bring the problems of Ukrainian farming to power. The first important issue is the legislative provision for the development of non-profit agricultural cooperatives and private farmers. Thus today, prices set by buyers for agricultural and agricultural products are 4-5 times lower than those at which the consumer buys them. And the result is that the village is poorer and degraded. The solution lies in the establishment of agricultural cooperation. The implementation of this action is enshrined in the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Laws of Ukraine on the Activities of Non-profit Organizations, which provides for granting agricultural cooperatives legal status as a non-profit organization. The bill was previously adopted in the first reading, but the second was still pending. So we encourage you to look at and accept it immediately in the second reading, because this will remove the problem of double taxation of agricultural cooperatives and remove obstacles to the creation of an organised agricultural market. The third problem is the lack of funding for agriculture provided for in the Ukraine State Budget Act 2010. Therefore, the Lithuanian Block supports the proposals made by farmers regarding the allocation of funds for farm lending, financial support for farm farms, state support for agricultural service cooperation, state support for agricultural advisory services, as well as the passporting of rural areas. In the end, I would like to address you, fellow dignitaries, and the executive authorities with a request and a request to give appropriate attention to the proposals put forward and to support them in our work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u11	Sergey Pavlenko is transferring the right to speak to Oleg Zarubinski, a faction of the “Block of Lithuania”. Next is Mironenko, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u12	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! On March 19th of this year, you and I, the Supreme Council, passed the Ukrainian Law on Change of the Ukrainian Law on Electricity. The essence of this law was to regulate the export of electricity. The point was that exports should be transparent, transparent, and advantageous to the country of Ukraine. This law stipulated, in particular, that the sale of electricity abroad would take place exclusively through open auctions, article 30. The auctions grant export rights for a maximum of one year, an article of the same law. For the practical implementation of this law, its “Final Positions” provides for the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine within four months of the date of entry into force of this law to ensure the holding of the relevant auction. However, according to official sources, all the auctions that seemed to have taken place during that time did not take place on formal grounds, again, as if there were no buyers, as if there were no buyers. However, almost all experts claim that, without exception, and this is reflected in the media, the reason for this was the deliberate activity of individual officials interested in returning to the previous scheme of electricity sales and a particularly high price for electricity. What does that mean? In fact, electricity export legislation is not being implemented today. What follows is a clear objective: to prove the imperfections of legal norms and to return to the practice of semi-circular schemes that were in force until the adoption of this Law on Electricity Exports. So there are conditions under which one corporation, as before, will monopolly export electricity at a price, we'll think less about it than it does for the Ukrainian industry, exports below the price of the Ukrainian industry. As a result, it is not the State that receives the income, but the intermediary. Moreover, the difference between the price of electricity for export and domestic sales lies directly on the shoulders of domestic consumers. We demand an analysis of this problem, to identify and eliminate the reasons that contribute to the shadowy actual and harmful patterns of electricity sales for Ukraine. Next time, please consider my statement as a request to the Prime Minister of Ukraine and get rid of the system of shadow schemes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u13	People's MP Mironenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. Anna Mikolayevna Herman, faction of the Party of Regions. Prepare Kendzior.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u14	Respectful colleagues, the overwhelming government around the epidemic, have already emptied the wallets of Ukrainian citizens. Experts estimate that on average every Ukrainian spent between $100 and $1,000 on drugs. At the same time, the government does not want to pay higher wages and pensions to the poorest Ukrainians -- pensioners and the least insured. We hear direct calls from government ministers, such as the doer of the duties of finance ministers, not to implement the Law on Raising Wages and Pensions. I ask the Attorney General's Office today: why is it that the highest official who calls for the sabotage of law enforcement is still not criminally responsible? We also need to understand that the epidemic will pass away, but people will not stop getting sick because it's cold in the apartments, because schools don't burn and burn in hospitals, in other budget institutions. And we should be hearing from the government here in parliament about the government's failure to prepare for the winter, for the heating season. And we must punish the guilty. Because today they are shutting down schools, covering up an epidemic. After the election, they will no longer talk about the epidemic, for they will no longer need it, but in schools it will be cold and our children will be sick. We must also find answers to the questions that were raised in the air yesterday in Parliament. Is it true that the only distributor of a Swiss drug that advertises from all the TVs of the Prime Minister is a member of the state? And is there corruption here? We need to answer that question. We need to answer the questions and bring to justice those responsible who called more than 150,000 people into the midst of the flu epidemic. We must make sure that those who make such terrible mistakes that affect the health and life of humans are responsible for this and that they do not leak out of them like water from a goose.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u15	People's deputy Kenzior and his right to speak is handed to him by Roman Tchac, so six minutes. Oleg Lazko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u16	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear fellow national MPs! Jaroslav Kenzior, “For Ukraine!” I completely agree with the request of both Vladimir Mikhailovich and the President of Ukraine, and many others not to politicize any trouble that comes into the house into our country. But not to talk about how we could have prevented, in all arms, in maximum preparation to face this disaster and get out of this trouble with as little loss as possible. I think it is necessary to say that people need to be reasoned and convinced that if the Ukrainian authorities fail, knowing this in advance, that the second wave of this so-called "California flu" is rolling and it is plagued by its own problems of preparing for the presidential elections, has completely thrown the entire society of its state at its discretion. Such authority, in my view, has no right to continue to be near the leadership of the state, because it will not be alone and it will be extremely expensive for society. I understand that this pandemic, which is now rolling from the west to the east of Ukraine, cannot be stopped. But the government certainly knew that in the spring of this year there was a wave of this pandemic in the world. The government was well aware of the World Health Organization’s warning of the dangers of the second wave. And yesterday, speaking out of the Supreme Council's rostrum, the Prime Minister, as he did on the podium, it was very strange to me that all those who spoke and asked questions, well, with such mildness and respect for the Prime Minister, were saying that I was asking a colleague today for six minutes. Dear friends, early in October of this year and from Ternopol, from Lviv, there was alarming information about the government’s outbreak of influenza. By October 24, in Ternopilska, in Lviv, the flu was already killing people. At a time when, from all over Ukraine, in order to get to Kiev, and listen to the Prime Minister load and unload tires twice as big as her in college, they were unloaded like shingles from maquirees. And this is already a wedding, this wedding was on the backdrop of these deaths caused by the flu. Today, the number of deaths has reached a hundred. And of course, the responsibility of direct, moral, political responsibility for these deaths lies directly with the Prime Minister of Ukraine. The Prime Minister talked about what they said yesterday, he quoted it, he wrote, "We have prepared for all levels of danger." Dear Society, yes, if we were to prepare, this basic bond, which would have been produced before the outbreak of this pandemic in Ukraine, would have been at least 10,000, starting with the newborn and the oldest citizen of Ukraine. It's not there yet. Only now did the Prime Minister unpack the gauze, saying, “On, sew, save yourselves.” Such cynicism, such disrespect for their own people, was not demonstrated by anyone in Ukraine, I think in the world. But Julia Volodymyrna says there was no money. Ladies and gentlemen, a brief estimate. Two meetings with the heads of rural and rural councils cost the state budget 40 million dollars. These adverts, which have been cursing all of us for six months when it's working, but it can't do that, would have been better if it were sewing a billboard and a billboard that it's working, necking a flu. A tour of stars with Ukraine in the heart or with Ukraine elsewhere is $50 million, that's 400 million dollars. It's a fireworks of 24 people's union, it's a modest estimate of 50 million dollars to spend on this goat, the head of the Ukrainian People's Movement, on primitive advertising of one and a half million dollars, total. This is within one billion dollars. Please tell me how much for one billion dollars you can find a connection and provide the most needed, first - priority drugs to meet the flu pandemic in this way. So when I say all of this, I'm saying the biggest epidemic, the biggest epidemic.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u17	Thank you. Two seconds. Two seconds. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u18	The biggest danger for Ukraine is this pandemic.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u19	Thank you. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u20	The Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u21	Yes, Oleg Lazko, please. Oleg Lazko. And please, Vladimir Bondarenko instead of Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u22	Vladimir Bondarenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, Party “Reforms and Orders”. We've just heard a few speeches, when, well, not loud co-workers or KGB informants, who in unison, both told us about all the sins of the government. And you noticed that the nationalists, the so-called nationalist, were applauded by the Communists. Surprisingly, their views coincided in the struggle against the government. So I want to say that yesterday and in the coming days, three big rallies took place in the Donetsk region. And we're going to the D.A.'s office to find out who organized them and what they've been artificially pushing people for, and why they've been forced to take miners to the Red Army, to Dimitrov, and to another town in Dobropilli. Now there's something else. I would like to draw attention to my colleague's presentation, who pointed out that they had not responded for a long time. So, please check with the D.A. when the President of Chizmar received disturbing information and his virgins. Why didn't he report her? Why didn't he publish it and so on. Now, about the essence of the question. Yesterday there was an artificial delay in the use of anti - influenza measures in this room. The point is that a man by the name of Adam, who is not called without a replica, was misleading all of us here, saying that through the Ministry all of this could be distributed. No, from the Ministry of Health, it is not possible to transfer money to the Ministry of Emergency Situations, as well as to the Ministry of Industrial Policy, or to others, without a decision. Moreover, the Ministry of Health operates only 20 percent of the hospitals, and now it has been placed under operational arrangements to use the bed fund of other hospitals. Financially, no one was subordinated to anyone. That is, the entire system of medical institutions in Ukraine has been deprived of this money. The same thing is not going to happen because of the area. Neither the Blacks nor the other areas where there's concern today will come, because we can't pass it on again without our decision. So yesterday, in this theater of absurdity, there was an artificial braking of money to fight the epidemic. Who did this? And let the people of Ukraine thank for this work, as did Adam, two Vitima, Wiaccheslav, and Ghana. This will be a normal decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u23	Dear colleagues, now the national deputy of Kilinkarov has the right to speak. He is given the word of his colleague Volintz.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u24	First of all, I would like to respond to this statement and say that if our Government did not distribute money to the public, to the extent necessary for the Ministry of Health, to the extent necessary for the Ministry of Health, we would accept these changes to the budget and send it to the right place, but that money would be under the control of certain ministries, not the manual administration of the Cabinet of Ministers. From this large rostrum, I would like to address the people's deputies and speak on the issues that concern the people of the eastern regions today. Cabinet of Ministers Decree No. 887 of 12.08.2009 on the amendment of the Law on the Presence of Mining Work provides for compensation for solid domestic fuel of the concessional category of citizens under articles 43 and 48 of the Mining Act and the Law on the Presence of Mining Labour. However, these instruments are by-laws and are contrary to the requirement of the above-mentioned laws and constitute a violation of the benefits provided by law for a significant category of citizens. In particular, there is no mechanism for the realization of benefits under article 48 of the mining law. This means that the veterans of the work of the closed mines and mines in the process of liquidation remain uncompensated. Given the fact that 91 mines for 1992 in Lugansk are closed and are in the process of eliminating 52 mines, this is a very important issue for Lugansk. The right to compensation of persons living in private homes with autonomous gas and electric heating is denied; persons living in central heating houses but having an autonomous heating system. To date, the issue of debt repayment for solid domestic fuel for disabled miners and veterans since 2003. There is still no clear answer when, how, and how will this debt be repaid? And that's not much, not less than 123,000 tons of coal on closed and destroyed mines alone. In addition, the quantity and quality of coal transported is a source of serious complaints. Under article 47 of the State Budget 2009 Act of Ukraine, contrary to the requirements of the Intersectoral Tariff Agreement, the Law of Ukraine. the recipient of the closed mines has been cut from 5.9 tonnes to 3.1. This is an unacceptable fact of legal impunity that is contrary to the Ukrainian Constitution. Serious complaints from disabled miners and workers have been made to the SNA Foundation. To date, I think the Government is going to make a special deposit on this fund. It has to date decided and allows individual enterprises not to pay contributions to these funds. Shachaters are no longer fully regressed today. And in September, only 30 per cent were regressed. And about coal exports. In Luhansk region, coal was removed in the first half of the year, and exports began. To the quality of coal, done, there are serious complaints. But the Donetsk region has yet to address this issue. We therefore turn again from this high rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u25	Finish up, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u26	We are addressing the Attorney General, and today we need to look into the issue of providing people with solid domestic fuel. In our view, corruption schemes are used and tenders are won by a firm that does not have a single tonne of coal, but deals with security issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u27	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've finished speaking to the people's deputies, and it's been half an hour. Adam Martinyuk has the right to a replica, and his name was on the line. One minute, please. One minute, please don't yell.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u28	Dear colleagues, we have listened to Yaroslava's cries here. The truth is, she imagines herself a ten-year-old. What did we do yesterday? And by the way, 150 votes, the conscience was still in BUT, which was voted in favour of a billion to go for the assignment. What is a reserve fund? The reserve fund is about to be understood by the people, the Prime Minister's pocket money, because only the Prime Minister manages the reserve fund. Yesterday, colleague Lavrinović called the numbers where millions of people from the Reserve Fund went to cover only disaster — meetings, consultations, meetings, and so on and so forth. And yesterday we gave up 1 billion for the purpose of people with influenza. The Ministry of Health is dealing with these problems, and the Reserve Fund will suffer.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u29	Oleg Lazko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u30	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished fellow national MPs! For the citizens of the country, let's explain, because the MPs know, they're just not telling the truth, and for the citizens of the country, let's explain that the Reserve Fund is being used, not by the Prime Minister's own decisions, but by the government's decisions, there is a position on the Reserve Fund to go to. And why we insisted yesterday that money go through the Reserve Fund, because that would allow us to respond quickly to the challenges that the epidemic is facing. As colleague Bondarenko put it, the Ministry of Defense, the hospital, the Ministry of Emergency Situations, and other institutions fighting the epidemic will not receive money yesterday because of our decision. And you and I are going to have to review these decisions again, make changes to the budget so that all those involved, including local authorities, will have the opportunity to get the money. So you don't have to put a shadow on your knitting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u31	Dear colleagues, we are. No, it's not. Please, calm down! The man spoke with a reply, and it was all over. Calm down, come on. Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, for their suggestions. I'm begging you! I'm asking you not to mention the last names, Oleg Lazko spoke. Please, calm down! Dear national MPs, distinguished national deputies, we have concluded our speeches. With regard to proposals. With regard to the suggestions made in the speeches, statements, and appeals made by the national deputies, I ask that you prepare appropriate assignments. I'm begging you! () [[B in m in s a l in]] I ask you to prepare appropriate assignments. Regarding the proposals made by the national deputy, Viacheslav Kirilenka, for the purpose of holding a special meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I want to say it again. If you want to ruin the final work of the Supreme Council, I want to say it's a mirror, which. Today what you do is reflect the worthlessness of all power. Calm down! There won't be a line! [[B in m in s a l in]] I want to do it again. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm asking for a faction. I'm asking the faction of the Timoshenko Block, calm down the national MP to whom I'm making an observation for unacceptable conduct. I granted the right to speak to Oleg Lazko, who was not mentioned. We've found out, let's keep working. Calm down! It won't be your way. All of it! Dear National Deputies! Let us move on to the issues set out in the schedule for today, which is Wednesday, November 4, 2009. We have a very large list of questions. I ask, honourable national deputies, in view of the fact that we are concerned about the problems and woes of the people, to make a decision that we will be working to complete the consideration of the issues set out in the schedule for this day. I'm voting on this proposal. Please vote. Please vote. [[10:41:56]] For-25 The decision is not taken. I'm voting on a second proposal, to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[10:42:19]] For the 18th. The decision is not taken. If you think you've done worse to the Head of the Supreme Council, I think you've done worse for the people you're so keen on when you need them, and you've organized what you don't need to organize in the form of an influenza epidemic, so you don't have to take responsibility for not burning houses, schools, schools, schools, children's institutions. You want to do worse? We'll see the principle of yours next. You will work alone, and with your government. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on the taxation of revenue from repurchase transactions for goods used]] [[Project of the People's Deputy of Krajniho]] Registration number 4385. Let us now discuss endlessly the questions that are needed and cherished by you, not by people. Please, two hours. I suggested a reduced procedure, you don't want to.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u32	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! I would like to propose to you a bill from Ukraine amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the taxation of revenue from repurchase transactions for goods used]] The drafting process of the bill coincided with the growing financial and economic crisis in Ukraine. And today, among the main issues that will allow the adoption of the bill to be resolved is the question of encouraging the sale of new goods for lack of consumer credit. The reconciliation of this issue, on the one hand, will provide an opportunity to prevent the complete collapse of domestic production and, on the other hand, to meet the needs of the population in the goods they need. At the same time, the bill's proposed standards will help to legalize the procedure for the sale of used goods, including transport, equipment, computer and household technology, mobile phones, etc., the elimination of conflicting interpretations of tax legislation on used goods, the avoidance of opaque and questionable schemes for the sale of such goods, as well as the introduction of the order of taxation of new goods into international law, such as the legislation of European society. In Ukraine, the lack of regulation of tax transactions with used goods is a significant obstacle to the development of the market for a wide range of goods. One of the most outstanding examples is trade in means of transport. Despite the rapid growth of the car market, which has taken place over the past few years, the car buyback system is called the trade-in, which is a normal practice around the world, in fact, has no development for today in Ukraine. The main reason for this situation is that under the current legislation of Ukraine, taxes on the added cost of ransom operations should be maintained twice for the same product at full cost. For the first time, taxation takes place when dealers sell new goods, and for the second time when they resell used goods. As a result of such imperfections, Ukrainian legislation has created preconditions for preventing tax evasion. For example, trade in used cars has gone completely into the shadow trading zone through commodity exchanges. According to previous estimates, about 90 percent of used cars are sold through the stock market, with an estimated value of not more than 1,000 dollars, regardless of the brand and model of cars. These are tens and, in some cases, hundreds of times less than their real value. However, a valid argument in favour of the bill is that introducing, removing from the shadows of the mentioned transactions will certainly increase tax revenues to the budget. The Chief Scientific and Scientific Authority is proposing to adopt the bill in the first reading. Dear colleagues, please support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u33	The report is complete. Please sign up for a question to the reporter. Please put your name on the board. Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u34	Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. Please tell me what losses today, before you calculate, are the market for the sale of used cars, coming out of the imperfections of the law that you are, which you actually want to eliminate. Because I absolutely agree that this problem exists and this problem has a negative impact not only on the development of this market, but also on the international reputation of Ukraine, because we are not following European standards that are already the norm for many countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u35	Thank you so much for asking. Absolutely your truth is what you said, and an objective assessment of what we have on this market, experts calculated what happened in 2008 under this situation -- market sales, about 900 million dollars were lost to this scheme.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u36	Anatoly Matvienko, faction of "Our Ukraine People's Self-Defense."
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u37	The Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, the "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" block. Dear Valery Grigorovich, you said that we are additionally receiving some revenue from the budget. I have some doubts about this. If possible, please tell us what extras are available in the budget and what is the result of your bill? And a second question, if you don't mind. The so-called imported secondhand, as included in your bill? Do we not understand that this is already a slightly different nature and other commodity to which you want a certain tax liberalisation today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u38	Thank you for asking. I'll start with another one. This scheme, which is proposed in the bill, aims to adopt cars, supported cars and other goods that I declare in this bill, openly through the drug network. At the same time, the car sold is absolutely transparent with an estimate of the cost, including taxation of this product, and the cost of this product will be the part that will then help the person who brought his goods under this scheme to buy a new product, whether it be a car or another built - up technology. It doesn't matter what kind of product it brings -- cars today's production, domestic production, vases. I wonder if it'll be foreign cars. Regarding the budget, it has been estimated that the entire year on this scheme, which works on today’s grain, will raise about 500 million dollars to the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u39	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u40	Thank you. Dear Valery Grigorovich, you know, is in the town of Zaporozhye such a factory district, and there was a very recent attempt, with the help of the stock market, to alienate property, the real estate of the elderly. And I have a lot of cases like this in the district, and I have to go to the courts. Please tell me that your bill can set up a shelter so that the stock market is not used as a means of alienation, such as apartments, especially for the elderly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u41	Thank you, Jaroslav Mikhailovich. You're absolutely correct in saying that, after this bill, market transactions after what I've reported are completely out of line with this scheme. There will be no stock exchange in these schemes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u42	Vladimir Bondarenko, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u43	Vladimir Bondarenko. First of all, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like to point out that, according to article 51 of Part Four, you were wrong.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u44	Ask questions, or I'll turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u45	Wait a second. And you have no right to turn it off.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u46	Unplug the microphone, please. Question completed. In fact, according to the Rules. Anything, please. Have a seat, please. Correspondent is head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy Sergey Anatoliyovich Teryohin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u47	Dear colleagues, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Tax, Customs, and Customs Policy at its meeting on June 16, 2009, reviewed the bill with registration number 4385. The purpose of the bill is to regulate the tax and other legislation of repurchase transactions, including transportation equipment, household technology, mobile phones, and so on. The bill proposes to introduce a special VAT tax regime, stating that the object of the value added tax in the implementation of the goods used is not the full cost of the goods used, as now, but only the difference between the price of the sale of the goods and the price of their purchase, calculated at normal prices. [[margin]] Foresee the characteristics of taxation by the income tax of natural persons, stating that when transactions are made in the sale or exchange of movable property, the object of taxation is profit, i.e. the difference between income and documented purchase costs. And make changes, as mentioned earlier, to the Ukrainian Law on Commodity Exchange, by foreseeing restrictions that cannot be subject to market trade individually defined things, particularly used goods, including transportation equipment, if they are not sold as a party. And it's defined what a "party" is. There are some technical comments to this bill on the committee, but the committee as a whole has a positive assessment of the concept that, if finalized and adopted, will allow for the legislative regulation of taxation in the course of transactions for the sale of used goods. As a result of its deliberations, the Committee recommends that the Supreme Council adopt the draft law on registration number 4385 as a basis for the first reading. And in my own words, I would like to explain this. Today, the secondary market for movable property is almost all in the shade. Why? Because, first of all, if the seller is a natural person, then according to the legislation in force, he has to include in gross income and tax taxes and contributions to the Pension Fund all the proceeds that a citizen receives from selling used goods, completely disregarding the cost of purchasing this used product. If the seller is a legal person, there is a double VAT effect: First the VAT is paid for the purchase of movable property and then the VAT is to be accounted for without taking into account what is paid in the purchase, and then it is included in the sale of used property. All of this leads to a search for semilegal, such as ways of alienating used goods. Please take a look at the car markets of used cars. They're practically all in the shadows, they're using commodity markets, they're using notary semi-legal certificates. And this leads to the fact that there is no protection for both buyers and sellers in the first place of transport, markets, let's say, other movable property, there's no real estate there, because we don't actually have any commissions that were before in the Soviet Union without dealing with this issue. And I also wanted to add that all the standards are fully in line with the 112 European Union Directive and our commitments made in the U.S.U.P., the Partnership Agreement, cooperation with the Commonwealth of European Union countries. So once again, we recommend adopting this law as a basis. And the last thing I'd like to say is, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. Now, before we started looking at this law, you said that we would say for two hours something that didn't matter to people. So this law is a powerful example of what is important to people. So please be more careful with your comments before the law has yet to be reported. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u48	Please sign up for the question. Please put your names on the board. Sergey Shevchuk, faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u49	I ask the floor for a question to the Ukrainian national deputy Volodymyr Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u50	Vladimir Bondarenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u51	Thank you. Mr. Sergei, I'd like to ask you a question about this bill. Would it not contribute to the hardening of cars with the technical quality that no longer permits and that is harmful to human health? That's the first one. And the second. According to article 29, paragraph 1, of the Supreme Council Rules, I make an official remark to the presiding officer for gross violations.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u52	Unplug the microphone. Please answer the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u53	On the first question. No, it won't. Because there are currently no standards of ecology or quality for the secondary market. And we have requirements for technical examination, you remember, we've mapped the transition to Eurosandarts Euro-3 and Euro-4 that have to be applied to new cars. With regard to old cars in Europe, they come out in a different way. There is a program that aims both at increasing the demand of citizens and at improving the environment, called Cash for Clunkers. 24 European Union countries apply it. It's very simple. If a person brings his old car with poor environmental, or technical, condition, he can get a new car with a discount that is financed by the budget. The average discount is now in Europe.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u54	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u55	That's 2.5 thousand euros for a small-timer. I mean, we do. This bill reveals the possibility of applying this program in Ukraine. Without this bill, we can't use such exchanges to improve the environment and consumer demand.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u56	Mikhailo Wolintz, faction of the Yulia Tymoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u57	Mikhailo Wolintz, faction of the Yulia Tymoshenko. Vladimir Mikhailovich, please pass the word to Vladimir Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u58	Vladimir Bondarenko, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u59	Thank you. Vladimir Bondarenko. But look, in Europe, 28 countries today are getting rid of old cars. Is there a guarantee today that they will dispose of them? Is it possible that a part of them, in view of the fact that they are being stockpiled by a large number of different illegal routes, may reach Ukraine and will such a system be offered in Ukraine or implemented in Ukraine when we and our own and those who arrive in the automobiles are being scrutinized? And I would also like to continue with my opinion on the fact that you can't violate the rules again.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u60	Unplug the microphone. Please, in accordance with the Rules, ask questions on the substance of the report, and please follow this rule.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u61	The first question is very interesting. Since, in fact, let's say in the Federal Republic of Germany, when such a program was launched, once again, I would like to emphasize to you that this law does not implement this program -- it opens the way for its implementation. So something happened in FERN. Last year, old cars with poor environmental and technical conditions were handed over in exchange for new ones. And then, in different ways, these old cars of about 24,000 grand, what was defined by Interpol, were placed in Eastern Europe, including Ukraine. After that, all of these countries, which have discovered these shaded streams, are necessarily filled with liquid glass by these old cars, their engines. So they can only be disposed of as metal scraps. So this is another problem, but let's start the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u62	Mikhailo Kosov, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u63	Mikhailo Kosov, Reform and Order Party. Since my colleague from the Reform and Order Party, Vladimir Bondarenko, cannot possibly conclude his opinion, I feel it is my duty to give him my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u64	Vladimir Bondarenko. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u65	Thank you. Dear Mr. Sergei, well, we're talking more about cars. But we know that in Ukraine today, there is a wide-ranging network of secondhand trades that are diverse. Now, I think this law has to be worked out somehow -- in terms of prevention, again, trade is not just unnecessary, but it's a harmful waste that comes especially from China. In particular, it is a vessel that comes from there, not a Hendium second, or even a new one that is not to be used. So I think that the finalization of this law will have to foresee, including the environmental expertise of this bill as a whole. And I wanted to pay attention, and on another occasion I warned Vladimir Litvin about.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u66	Turn off the microphone. I mean, dear colleagues, if you're going to go on like this -- it's not going to work -- it's the first time. It's different. According to article 51, there are no replicas. Third. Realizing the complexity of the situation, I gave Oleg Lazko the right to speak, even though he had no right. He's on. What else do you want? You want to make fun of me? You're bullying the country already, stop this business, it won't go the way you want it to go, you're healthy people and you're normal until the epidemic's over. Calm down! Don't stop this fornication, I don't think you'll win. Stop it! Please answer the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u67	So I would like to take another look at the subjects of this law. They are not objects or objects, but they are moving objects of movable property. I mean, there's no dishes around here, or there's no clothes. I mean, these are separate objects of movable property that you can see in the Civil Code. So there is no threat, as you say.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u68	Time's up. Have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u69	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u70	Let's move on to the discussion. Please sign up, your honors, for the performance. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. National deputy Kamchatny. Please, the faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Is that how you're gonna do it? From the place or from the place? Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u71	Kamchatten, Timoshenko Street. Please give the floor to the national MP Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u72	People's Bondarenko, faction of the Timoshenko Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u73	Thank you. Dear colleagues and radio and television audiences! I'd like to pay attention today, first of all, to the fact that this bill is really very important, because our country has recently taken significant steps in recent years, both in the import of foreign goods that could freely be released into itself and in the illegal distribution system. In particular, it is about the implementation of goods that go from the border, including online markets. In my own time, I've been actively proposing to put some kind of control over this process, including the introduction of cash machines that are absolutely necessary, because there's about 50 billion dollars outside of the cash machines today. Regrettably, there are active fighters to keep the network systems that are now in the markets intact and to continue to work in the country by paying small taxes and thus killing legal trade, which goes to big supermarkets, hypermarkets, and so forth. So this law needs to be done more deeply, both ecologically and financially, because the realization of the product, which is a second hand, including the local one and the imported one, needs such expertise. I would also like to draw attention to the need to increase production in Ukraine today. And every step of cutting down the supply of any product will certainly contribute to that production. Then those vendors who are now implementing a foreign product in systems like this online marketing, they're going back to the factories. Happily, such a return is being made today. In the Sanhedrin region, which I represent, there's an aviation complex. Thanks to the actions of the government of Julia Timoshenko, these enterprises are now restoring jobs. There are huge contracts with Iran, India. There's an agreement with Russia on the release of planes. And today, those who were standing in markets yesterday are returning to their labor engineering professions. I think the miners are getting good support today, and they also have a job today. So let us adopt this law in the first reading, as a minimum, and work it out from the point of view of the interests of our nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u74	Jaroslav Dry faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u75	Dear colleagues! Bill 4385, of course, I will personally support and ask the session room to support it. I don't think the main thing in this bill is to solve the task of filling the budget by increasing the transactions that are taxed. I would like to point out that in this bill, on the one hand, and the return of social justice in relation to the domestic producer and, on the other hand, the protection of the property rights of the people, except for the promotion of the development of the domestic producer, the protection of the property rights of the people. It was not by chance that I asked a question to a respected colleague named Valery Grigorovich Krajny. In my practice as a Marjorie MP, there were so many cases where, because of the stock market, by means of small financial costs and manipulations, people who were old were deprived of their homes. And then it was very difficult to protest, break and return this stock deal. One more. Here, in a speech by the committee's distinguished head, it was already said that this bill would contribute to the introduction of new civilisation European trade standards that have long been practiced in other countries of the world and, unfortunately, with great difficulty, they are breaking their way here in Ukraine. After all, I don't think anyone would deny that even in the system of budgeting and taxation in the end, justice will be established. But, dear colleagues, I can't help but point out that lately, well, during 2009, here in this session room, we haven't seen much of an anti-crisis program from the government, we haven't seen any bill aimed at fiscal incentives for the basic sectors of the national economy, to fiscal incentives for the real economy. Now we're going to be looking at a new bill from the government market, where tax pressure is rising again. So this bill, like other parliamentary bills, is slightly different from what the government is offering us. Not filling up any third-skinning from a tax producer, but really adequately in today's crisis situation solving the problems facing the basic sectors of the national economy. Since this bill will contribute to the development of the real economy, to the support of our domestic producer, to the protection of citizens' property rights, I propose that this bill be supported in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u76	Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u77	Dear voters, dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. You know, I wouldn't want to look at this bill from the point of view, and how much money will come into Ukraine's budget, although the report was, is almost 900 million dollars that can fill Ukraine's budget. And I would like to put this problem from the perspective of Ukraine's integration into European civilisation, in particular, legal space. Because in this law, I think our voters need to know, first of all, about civilized forms of exchange of used goods if they want the value of the old one they return to the seller to be included in the price. From this point of view, the voter or buyer wins because he has to pay less for the result of the new thing than he would have paid if he bought it without giving up the old one. Such operations are called trade-ins. They're primarily about things that are of great value, first of all, cars, they're maybe some real estate object or some manufacturing object, and so on. For legal reasons, I think this law will be useful. Of course, there is a need to work on second reading, to make the images that apply, on my beliefs that relate to taxation of incomes that are earned by a natural or a legal person, and if it does not have confirmation of the value of the purchase. But in general, I am absolutely convinced that this law is useful and necessary to our country, it is part of those systemic reforms that make Ukraine a European, civilized state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u78	Olga Bodnar, faction of Yulia Timoshenko, please. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u79	Thank you. Please give the floor to your colleague on the Gnatkevich Jury Vasilovich block.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u80	Please, Yuri Gnatkevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u81	Dear colleagues, I'm not a businessman or a dealer, and I have very little idea of the terms used in this law. However, one incident in my life, a recent one, moved me to this rostrum. I noticed that the bill deals with transport equipment, some equipment, even mobile phones, but it doesn't say anything about agricultural technology. You know that one of the biggest problems for our small farmer today is the problem of tractors and combines, because powerful Western companies such as John Durres, Ferguson, offer us an extremely expensive technique that neither farmers nor even large agricultural unions can buy. And I mentioned a recent incident. I was in Canada quite recently, visiting my relatives, and one of these relatives is Basil Owl. Last year he received a diploma from the most effective dealer in agricultural technology sales in Saskatchewan and all over Western Canada, and he has a powerful own market for the sale of tractors, combines, sieves and other agricultural techniques and inventory. And he told me this story that he brought two tractors to Ukraine, and then he came in April this year looking for money or tractors -- he didn't find any money, and he didn't find any tractors. He didn't know where he was going. The company that bought them didn't pay the money, it doesn't exist anymore. But he gave an interesting idea. He says: I have a wide range of cheap tractors that our boys no longer buy, and there's a large range of so-called "used agriculture machinery", that is, used technology. And I could set it up for your new clubs, agricultural societies, for farmers, but I'd like to have order and I'd like to be sure that both blurry and taxation will help me in this matter. It seems to me that in this way we could even resume the work of our MTS, which we destroyed, and we destroyed during the collapse of our agricultural system then everything. I remember 80 tractors and 48 combines in my village. Where did it all go? It's rotten, it's stolen, it's rusted. I think what I'm proposing, and I'm proposing to support this bill in the first reading, I came up with Valeri Kranji, he said that “your idea of including agricultural techniques here is interesting and relevant”, so I suggest that we include, vote in the first reading and work on this bill with the benefit of our agricultural producers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u82	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. The committee proposes to accept it as a basis. Is there no objection? A proposal for a committee to adopt is put to the vote on the basis of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the taxation of revenue from repurchase transactions for goods used]] [[Registration number 4385]] Please vote. [[11:16:03]] For 374 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I am announcing a draft Act amending some of Ukraine's laws to prevent the spread of the effects of the financial crisis on Ukraine's insurance market. [[Registration number 4254]] The rapporteur is the National Deputy of Ukraine, Vitaly Homutinnik. The focal point is the head of the Committee on Finance and Banking.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u83	Dear Head! Dear colleagues! I would like to present you with a draft Act amending some laws to prevent the spread of the financial crisis on the insurance market in Ukraine. The bill was developed with the participation of experts from the State Commission on Financial Services Markets, the involvement of insurance associations, and national deputies of various factions. This is an anti-crisis bill aimed at resolving a whole range of the most important issues that will create conditions for stabilizing the situation in the field and allowing the foundations to be laid for a way out of the crisis. The first block of proposals proposed for adoption in this bill is the extension of the powers of the relevant commission so that they can respond more quickly and effectively to those events that are taking place in the market. It is suggested that the authorized authority be given the right to change the list of insurance reserves and the order of their accounts in order for insurance companies to have an adequate reserve of capacity to fulfil their obligations. Second of all, it's good. commits the insurance market to doing the right reporting, not as it does today — every quarter, every month. Why is this being done? For today’s three - month period, there are cases where insurance companies go bankrupt, and the financial services market regulator doesn’t even understand what’s going on there. Therefore, it is suggested that we switch to monthly reporting. The next question is to give the competent authority the right again to establish a permit procedure for operations with insurance assets when it detects signs of an artificial deterioration of its payability. It's about what's happening right now in the market where companies are very active, very fast to advertise their activities. And when that time comes, the time of financial crisis, many of them do not compensate for the damage and do the right things to dispossess liquid assets and, let’s just say, avoid their obligations to insurers. It is therefore proposed that the competent authority be given the right to regulate these matters and to set up appropriate temporary administrators as an example of the banking system in order to enable them to make a moratorium on temporary alienation of such property. The next block of questions relates to the possibility of transferring the insurance portfolio from one company to another. Once again, there is a need for those companies that are on the verge of bankruptcy or that have a proper unmet financial situation to be willing to transfer their liabilities to another insurance company that is currently planning to develop and recover from such a situation. Today’s procedure is not regulated by valid legislation, so it is proposed to make such changes to existing legislation. The next important part of the bill is the establishment of a procedure for disclosure of information by insurers to ensure reliable insurance protection and the introduction of the obligation of the authorized authority to publish information, mandatory information on the situation in the insurance market. Thus, the authorized authority will be obliged to publish monthly and quarterly information about the market situation and the situation of individual insurance companies operating in the market. There are a number of issues related to the banking system. The point is that one reason insurance companies are unable to make their liabilities is that in bank accounts in those banks where temporary administrations are already in place, their costs and the corresponding insurance costs are blocked by the relevant moratorium of the National Bank. Therefore, it is proposed that the National Bank should be able to refinance where necessary and where there will be an urgent need to address once again the relevant authorized authorities in close cooperation with the National Bank. Dear colleagues, there are still a number of, let's say, more technical issues. But in general, I would like to say and point out that this bill is needed today not separately by the insurers, not by the State, not separately by those injured citizens who are now in line with insurance companies, but they only hear appropriate suggestions to transfer, translate payment periods and so on. Today this bill is needed by everyone, the whole field. So there is a proposal to adopt this bill in the first reading. I know, and we've been talking to a lot of people's deputies, and I've been talking to a profile committee, and there's a certain need to work out more, to work on this project. And there's an understanding of what we're going to do with all the suggestions. But the urgent need for first reading is essential. Why? Because for six months this bill has been passed by different committees and has. Wait until your turn. The time has come, so there is a proposal to support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u84	Dear colleagues, please sign up for a question to the reporter. Please put your name on the information board. Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukrainian People's Self-Defense.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u85	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense. Dear reporter! I generally support the draft law, but I want to ask you how you feel about removing part of the fourth of the new article that you're supplementing, 33 sts, by which you're actually setting a new tax -- 0.01 percent of the income of economic operators operating in financial services markets, but not less than 1,000 non-taxable minimum incomes of citizens over the relevant calendar period. So you know very well that there's the Tax System Act, and in spite of that law, you're still setting it up. So I suggest in the first reading that we delete it, because this is the concept of the law, it's not appropriate. Another offer. In article 39, you invite government officials who control these services to pay according to how much they receive. That's ridiculous. It also needs to be removed, it's conceptual stuff. How do you feel about this?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u86	Thank you for asking. First I'm going to try to explain why this rule is now in this bill. In order to transfer the insurance market to the monthly yield of the corresponding reporting, today's material and technical state of the commission of the state-authorized authority that regulates this market does not have these funds, this material and technical state. The European experience, it has examples where the insurance market makes the right calculation, and this proposal is 0.01 percent, it's not that important for individual insurance companies and insurance companies as a whole. This is according to the associations that unite these companies. But there is a discussion on this issue. And we have already discussed whether it is necessary to do so today, taking into account once again the difficult financial situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u87	Allow me to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u88	You just have to take into account the additional funding costs in the budget. It's a small cost, so let's say I'm not going to give an estimate, but it's a small cost. So I agree with you that this issue needs to be further worked out, and not to exclude it, but it will be decided by the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u89	National Deputy Karpuk, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u90	Vladimir Karpuk, MP “For Ukraine!” Please pass the word to Stanislav Arjevetin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u91	National MP Arjevetin, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u92	Vitaly Juryovich, you and I had a discussion about this bill, we know the story that 80 percent of the text was being prepared before the crisis, and we've just added some innovations. Please tell me, would it be advisable if we didn't complicate this bill, because today it's overburdened by changes to eight bills, to the rules that apply to taxes, so that we can divide it into two parts? Everything about the antichrist was put into a separate bill, and it was quickly accepted and aided by the insurance market. Anything else about turning an authorized authority almost into a ministry, translate it into a later one, because it's not very urgent. If we don't go that way, we understand that this is going to be six, seven, eight or more months before we consider this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u93	Thank you for asking. I think that all the rules of this bill are somehow in line with the substance of the bill on the non-admission of the financial crisis to the insurance market. But there are more pressing issues that need to be resolved, issues that may need to be resolved immediately, and perhaps there is time to wait. But all the questions are certainly worthy of my opinion and of those co-authors who worked on the bill. With regard to the Stately Authorized Authority. In general, I had no personal or even prior to the crisis, and I was a proponent of not strengthening the authorized body. But now it's just necessary, and I've highlighted a series of issues that need to be responded more quickly and quickly and efficiently.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u94	Allow me to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u95	Again, it is proposed not only to strengthen the authority but also to transfer a portion of the powers from the Cabinet of Ministers to the State Commission in order to be able to react quickly again and effectively to all events. I know all the suggestions that have been highlighted by you personally, and part of these proposals will be taken into account now in the committee report, and part of the proposals will be worked with you on the committee. And I think we're going to agree to compromise on all issues. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u96	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u97	Thank you. Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, Party of Regions Vitaly Juryovich, anticrisis means promoting better access to the insurance market, not involvement, because you know that now the extreme unpopularity of the insurance market as well as the lack of confidence in the banking system is caused by insurance companies, like banks, refusing to make commitments. If someone thinks that it is such an easy matter because of the court to get his money back, he is deeply wrong. It's an extremely expensive financial cost, extremely high nerve costs, and there's no guarantee that the costs will come back. Please tell me, will state insurance companies also be in the circle, in the field of activity of your bill? That's the first question. And the second question. So anyway, how does the adoption of this bill help restore the population's confidence in market insurance services? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u98	Thank you for asking. One thing I can stress is that the main purpose of this bill is to protect the rights of insurers – this is the main issue of this bill. As for how to restore trust, how. Losing her is a market issue. And the market will regulate these things. But our task is to prevent a deterioration in the financial situation of the insurance market, which will lead to a failure to meet our insurance obligations. And it's these things that are highlighted in this bill. As far as government companies are concerned, they are no longer available today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u99	Zinovo Shkutak, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u100	Zinovo Shkutjak, “For Ukraine” MP. Please pass the word to Arjevetin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u101	Stanislaw Arzhevtin, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u102	Stanislav Arjewitin, group “For Ukraine!” Vitaly Yuriovich, you didn't quite answer my question. Please tell me, can we call it anti-crisis measures when new requirements are set for the licensing of insurance companies, the reorganization of the authorized authority, the establishment of wage payments for civil servants at the level of managers of insurance companies, the establishment of a new tax on insurance companies from income to obtain this authorized body? So, please tell me, is this an anti-crisis procedure?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u103	Dear colleague, you and I have had a lot of discussions on all these subjects. And once again, I want to emphasize that there are questionable issues. And around these issues, they were offered by the government authority, by the commission, some questions were from the people's deputies, from the committee, that's not my personal product, that's the product, the common product of the market and the state that regulates this market today. So these things that you're talking about, we're sending them back to the second reading, I'm absolutely convinced of that.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u104	Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u105	Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. Vitaly Yuriovich, well, I wanted to ask you a question about what this is, I think, one of the few really anti-crisis laws. Because today we hear a lot about anti-crisis packages, and those laws that would sort out the activity of a market, unfortunately, we don't see much from the initiative of government structures. But let me ask you another question, and I want to give you public support about not being able to solve the problem locally. Even when it comes to that authorized body for which the discussion is taking place. Imagine -- we set certain rules and we don't set up a subject that will implement and follow these rules. Dear colleagues, without this law will not work. And so I urge you to be principled in protecting this very concept that is enshrined in the draft law. It's a complex solution. And those changes that would allow you to protect the rights of insurers.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u106	Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u107	Respectful colleagues, in view of the fact that the national deputy Arjevetina was given the right to question his colleague, were automatically removed from the board. But he has the right to ask questions. Please. He was with you. No, no. Well, that's enough.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u108	Stanislav Arjewitin, group “For Ukraine! ” Vitali Juryovich, I still wanted to hear your comment. You told such a beautiful story about the Guarantee Fund. But as far as I'm concerned, this fund looks like it's still kind of weird and at large, it even contradicts the content of the economic activity of the insurance company itself. At this risk, the insurance company received a bonus for this service. And I got a lot of reward. Now, through the Guarantee Fund, this bonus should be guaranteed and also within the National Bank system. Well, is there any economic meaning to such an offer?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u109	I want to remind you that the Deposit Guarantee Fund is offered, once again, to protect the rights of insurers. And we agreed on a committee when we considered this bill, that it wouldn't be part of the National Bank. So this proposal is already included in the text of this bill, here. As far as being this fund is concerned, there will be a second reading of this bill, and there will be some discussion. I think it's necessary. But it will, it will be decided by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u110	Dear colleagues, time is up. Have a seat, please. Now the co-rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Finance and Banking. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u111	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I'd like to thank both the author first, and report on the fact that this bill came to us in the Supreme Council, and I'm sorry that it's already being considered for six months, and if we continue to form this agenda and those very important bills that are to be contained as anti-crisis, if we put them in place at the end of our working day, of course they won't be accepted. That's what the bill is about. I agree with the author that it is this bill that has been drafted, based on the need to overcome the crisis in the Ukrainian insurance market, and that I aim to prevent the deterioration of the insurance market's situation from improving the efficiency of its regulation, ensuring the transparency and stability of the insurance market, and protecting the interests of insurers and insured and wine.? The issues raised in the bill are very important and urgent. I understand that there are a lot of observations from our scientific expertise to this bill. But I hope for the support and the halls, and I hope for the support of the very created working group and they, all of these questions will be taken into account if they are accepted as a basis in the second reading. I'd like to focus your attention right now only on those urgent questions: First. What the bill proposes. Of course, the responsibility of the insurance market needs to be strengthened today, and it is through the mechanism of establishing a insurance fund. It is also proposed to set the time limits and order of reporting, to control market conditions. The bill introduces a procedure for transferring the insurance portfolio as a protection. It's an insurance policy. How to finance anti-crisis measures in insurance. Arrangements for disclosure of information by insurers to ensure that insurance is protected and that the competent authority is obliged to publish information about the insurance market. The proposed mechanism for regulating the relationship between insurance and insurance agents is the main activity of which is the provision of financial and other services, in addition to insurance and insurance intermediation, if the prerequisite for the provision of such services is the requirement of insurance to avoid unfair competition and breach of the rights of insurers. Double treatment of restrictions on activities related to the introduction of Ukraine to the World Trade Organization is being removed. Special arrangements are in place for funding an authorized authority to ensure its effective operation. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concludes that the bill can be adopted as a basis. The committee has considered this bill and fully understands the importance of the problems addressed by this bill and supports the proposed changes. During the committee's deliberations, it was determined that separate provisions of the bill relating to the creation of a insurance fund as part of the National Bank of Ukraine system and the introduction of a refinancing mechanism by the National Bank of Ukraine for commercial banks to pay off debt. insurers need conceptual development and alignment with the National Bank of Ukraine. And here we have to give our dues and agree with National Deputy Stanislaw Mikhailovich Arzvetin. The conclusions are notable, but this is natural because the bill itself is very difficult and of course it needs further work. This allows, first and foremost, to prevent systemic contradictions in the text of the bill itself. It should be noted that the nature of the comments allows them to be taken into account when preparing the bill for second reading. And the problems that the bill has to solve are urgent. In view of the delay in its consideration, the insurance market in Ukraine and thus the consumers of insurance services will be adversely affected. The proposed bill contains changes without which the insurance market can, unfortunately, not be worth it right now. Now I'd like to go under the transcript, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. In view of the Committee put forward, it decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to prevent the spread of the financial crisis on Ukraine's insurance market, on the basis of the exception of 2-12 paragraphs of paragraph 8 of paragraph 1 (a), (b), and third and fourth paragraphs of paragraph (b), in paragraph 4 of section 1. [[Registration number 4254]] These are the points that relate to issues related to the National Bank of Ukraine, including creation, guarantees, and a guarantee fund. That's why I'm asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u112	Let me finish. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u113	and join the process on second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u114	Dear colleagues! Report completed. There's a question before.? Please, if there is, sign up for the head of the subcommittee. Please put your names on the board. Xenia Leapina, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense."
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u115	Please pass the word to the deputy, Argewitten.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u116	Stanislaw Arjewitin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u117	Stanislav Arjewitin, group “For Ukraine! ” Please tell me, and you share the idea that in order to help insurance companies, we need to remove from this bill 3-4 the standards that are really anti-crisis. And anything else about reforming, establishing new taxes, moving it into a separate bill and looking at it calmly. And maybe that's how we're going to avoid a month-long review of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u118	Thank you, Reverend Stanislaw Mikhailovich! I've also talked to you about this and, of course, I agree with you that some of the norms that apply to the National Bank of Ukraine have been removed from this bill. On the issue of financing an authorized body, as the reporter said, or this will have to be foreseen by the State budget of Ukraine. But we're getting out of the core of this bill, and first of all, what it's focused on today. Today, not only do we want to protect the market, but it's important not to balance this market, to clean up this market. And without giving proper authority to an authorized body, we will not be able to do so. That's the first one. Secondly, I would like to say that this bill was approved by market participants in the ninth international financial forum, comments and all their proposals were also included in the bill. At the recent assembly of the League of Insurance Organizations, the bill was also approved. And the market today is asking for what we have helped to clean up today from unscrupulous advertising, first of all.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u119	You all have it, don't you? Jaroslav Kenzior, “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u120	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, Arjevetina's word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u121	That's it, everybody. Stanislaw Arzhevtin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u122	Stanislav Arjewitin, group “For Ukraine! ” Dear reporter, I know the insurance people's opinion, too. And of course, when they were told that the new tax would be only 0.01, they kind of agreed. But I understand that it's going to be very soon changed to another number. Of course, insurance companies do well when we ban work on the Ukrainian nonresident market. Of course, insurance companies like it when we enter two other compulsory insurance schemes, including a 1 - year - old car. I think the insurance company might like that. But we need to talk about protection, not lobbying these interests. So I don't think these standards apply to anti-crisis measures yet.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u123	Dear Stanislaw Mikhajlovich, all of this about the civil liability of the owners of motor vehicles, you know that as we enter the World Trade Organization, we are also the buyers of the green card. And there it is, starting with 15 days for those who will be temporarily present in Ukraine and up to 1 year old. I think it's a democratic norm. As for the.01 rate to channel these costs, first of all, to clear this market from fair competition, the market itself is asking today, but in an authorized body, what was sufficient, for example, for activities. His half-year-old activity? That he was able to suspend the license to 12 insurance companies. And I want to remind you that out of 434 insurance companies, 100 percent of the total insurance premiums are about 100-120.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u124	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u125	It's just that today is the first thing that undermines confidence in the insurance market, and the insurance market itself undermines confidence in the insurance market, and the insurance market itself asks for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u126	Vladimir Karpuk, microphone, faction "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u127	Vladimir Karpuk, MP “For Ukraine!” Honorable Alexandre Ivanovich, some 400 companies operated before the financial crisis in Ukraine’s insurance market. The total amount for 2007 was about 15 billion dollars. At the same time, i.e. large amounts and 41 types of insurance under the Insurance Act. However, there is a situation that now, in the face of a crisis, many of those people who are insured from various types of insurance, that insurance companies do not pay those costs, and many people have problems. Because this law is designed primarily for the protection of insurers, not insured persons. What do you think? And what are the trends now to the size and number of companies operating in the insurance market in Ukraine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u128	Thank you, Mr. Volodymyr. In fact, more than 430 companies, insurance companies operating according to our current legislation, are insured today. Of them, as I've told you before, there are only over a hundred companies that are not just reporting today, which are the main amounts of all insurance premiums they've worked on. Of course, more than 200 companies are the ballast they want to clean themselves and the market. And of course, today is very difficult for an authorized body because of its first lack of financial resources, the lack of the ability to introduce the procedures that we have today, is primarily the procedure for the introduction of temporary administrations -- once again, in this bill, you have seen that there is a provision for the creation of a guarantee fund. The third question is the transfer of the insurance portfolio. And the insurance market, he sees today that he has to be responsible for the entire insurance market in Ukraine. But when you talk about our personal work, when you know we're at the end of December.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u129	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u130	Banking activities and this law have directed about 100 billion funds to support the banking sector, and no anti-crisis law, no recapitalisation, and no financial opportunities for the non-banking financial market. And it's not just about the insurance market, it's about the credit unions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u131	Thank you. Dear colleagues, time is up. Thank you, Alexander Ivanovich, for the committee's report. Please sign up for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u132	Dear colleagues!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u133	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u134	Dear colleagues, I ask you to support this bill. It is essential to the insurance market and also to the return of trust, so that we do not lose our insurance market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u135	Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss the bill? Is it? Then sign up, please. Please put the names of the national MPs on the board. Yes. Stanislaw Arzhevtin, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Vladimir Yavorowski will be next. Now we're going to see where Kendiser is recorded.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u136	Deputies! Dear participants in the insurance market! I'm still thinking that in this bill we've overloaded things that relate to anti-crisis measures and everything that relates to changes to the basic law that regulates the insurance market. So if we really want to help the insurance market, we have to divide it and quickly adopt one bill and continue to look at the reformer completely differently. That is why our faction “For Ukraine!” will only vote if the eight points I now stress are accepted today and the authors count them – then we vote. If not, we will not support the first reading. We talked a lot about positives, but we didn't talk about the negatives of this bill. And so I'd like to talk about these negatives. In fact, today’s laws are contrary to market economy standards, impose additional tax burdens on insurance companies, and even limit the rights of Ukrainians who use the insurance market. Here are some of these: the limitation of the rights of people who use these companies. First. It is now mandatory to contract civil liability insurance for transport equipment for a year. I don't think that's a very democratic norm. And Ukrainians, for example, who do not use a car in the winter, why should they be insured? I think it likes insurance companies, but I don't think it's democratic in terms of users. Today, the obligation to have a voluntary insurance contract is established, and this is another hidden tax on people. I think that whether voluntary or not, it is in this type of insurance that people should determine, not the availability of voluntary liabilities. So I don't think it's very democratic either. I think that banning the activities of non-resident insurance companies from warning us, in Ukraine, this limits rights and people to be more secure, and those insurance companies that can quickly use the fuses in our country, in Ukraine. By the way, it's also, this norm, it's against the WTO. I heard the reporter say that we should accept such a standard. Next. Today, too, it has been said that the transfer of the insurance portfolio from one insurance organization to another insurance organization is being facilitated, but they forgot to say one thing: that this transfer is carried out without the consent of the insurer, I reiterate, without the consent of the insurer. And I think this should be a single rule. But the norm with the system when one insurance company passes the other, the third, the fourth, is, I think, it's an escape from that responsibility and the distraction of responsibility. Next. The bill introduces a new tax on insurance companies. In fact, 0.01 percent is not much of an income. But I think that when we look at tax standards, it transforms because there's a similar practice and I think it's not an anti-crisis action to pay taxes today to maintain the regulator and it also needs to be removed. As for the guarantee fund, I think in a form like that it's written today, it's questionable. Because it is largely contrary to the very economic, economic, and insurance companies themselves. If a premium has already been paid for this service, why should it be re-insured? Even though we don't know that the state is going to be, not the state, in the National Bank, not in the National Bank? But that doesn't fit the economics, so the bonus is already paid. Well, today, it's been commented that, in the National Bank system, it's not going to be an asset, but in the text of the bill, that's the norm that's still left, and that's not how it's created, as the rules are used. I think this rule needs to be reviewed too. In my opinion, not exactly anti-crisis measures are what is involved in reorganizing an authorized body. I don't think that's a good time either: handing over functions, figuring out procedures, and all that sort of thing. This can only complicate the situation with regard to anti - crisis measures. Next, new requirements for obtaining insurance licenses. I don't think it's a good time to talk today either. You know how our officials know how to apply for new licenses. How about for me, setting a wage in insurance....an authorized body at the level of insurance managers, well, as far as I'm concerned, it's not the norm of law at all, and in general, why should an official get as much as the insurance companies get? It seems to me that this is contrary even to the Civil Service Act, which does not provide for such a standard. I don't think it's a function of an authorized authority today: to determine which rating of banking institutions, which rating of securities, or to apply to the National Bank for refinancing almost in the first place. I don't think this is the function of this authorized body. As for the refinancing, I think that all sectors in Ukraine should be equal under such conditions, not just insurance. Next, I think that if these standards are not deleted today on the first reading and we do not get assurances from the drafters, I think that the "For Ukraine!" group will not support the bill because it is conceptually incorrect. The name is very beautiful, very right in shape, but in fact we see a completely different way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u137	Thank you. Dear colleagues, before giving the word to Vladimir Alexandrovich Yavorowski, there is this proposal: we should complete the consideration of the matter, determine the decision, and then announce the recess. Is there no objection? So that we can continue with you somewhere until the issue is resolved. We have four more speakers. And the next thing I knew, I was approached by a number of deputies to come back. More specifically, not go back, but put forward a motion for us to consider the following bills as a reduced procedure. So after this issue has been discussed, I'm going to put this proposal to the vote. Please, Volodymyr Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u138	Vladimir Yavorowski, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. Dear voters, dear fellow national MPs! The People's Deputy Arjevetin has literally seized a list of the “Achilles Fifths” that have raised some warnings in this bill. Because of this, I will not waste time on them. But the lead reporter who went up to this rostrum, I understand, the leader of this one. The leader and probably the ideas themselves, exactly, and the leader of that group of MPs yesterday led the shadow tax administration. It is, of course, very interesting to hear “tax shadow administration”. A very interesting position and a very interesting career. Because of this, of course, we all hoped that a new idea would be introduced on behalf of the opposition, a new idea would be introduced in order to fill our budget in such a dramatic time. I understand perfectly that, let's say there's a lobbying bill in America, but there's lobbying that's all about lobbying the interests of the state. Well, we have a lobby who wants to. And although it has been said here that this bill is designed to protect people who are in fear, my personal opinion, it protects only the insurance companies themselves, the management itself. Well, look, the insurance company is going bankrupt, so why do we have to start protecting the insurance company? And it bankrupts, let's say a factory, and it bankrupts a bank that forms a colossal clot in the entire financial system of Ukraine. Because we think it's really a lobbying moment. Among other things, look here, one of the reporters said that if something didn't work out, it's not just the budget, it's not just the government budget filling, it's the government spending. I don't say it again, I don't want to repeat myself, but Arjevitin here has laid out all these points very precisely, it's an increase in wages. And then we're saying, today, it's like the whole of Ukraine is covered in insurance, so I'd say. This is usually true of large cities, and the main mass of our people does not trust these companies. Because of the fact that it is an anti-crisis law and that it, rape, should be adopted, all the more so with the things that are causing great opposition, there will be no “Julia Timoshenko Block”.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u139	Dear colleagues, the word is given by Yuri Miroshnichenko, a faction of the Party of the Regions. Next is Michael Catherinechuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u140	Dear voters, dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. You know, I wouldn't be speaking out of the first line of law, or right now, if it wasn't for the situation we have in real life. Where did the law come from? Right now you may be somewhat critical of the authors of this law. But let's get out of the real situation. Please tell me, how many Ukrainian citizens today have found themselves in a situation where they cannot obtain funds in the event of an insurance? Tens of thousands of Ukrainian citizens today suffer from the fact that insurance companies do not pay them money. And there are two problems. First. When insurance companies' costs are blocked as a result of the fact that banks are not actually working, there are temporary administrations. Or they do not want to pay the costs by using this situation because they have the funds that are paid as insurance contributions. So the authors are offering us, and you deny that it's an anti-crisis law. They are proposing that this situation be organized in a legal way, not because of fraud, bribes, deals, corruption, and so forth, but in a way that allows us today to clearly track and protect the interests of Ukrainian citizens. Some criticism is absolutely fair and I share it, I mean Mr. Arjevetin's speech on wages and so on. But let's see the content of this law, the point is that we have to: (a) define whether or not stricter regulation and not the interests of insurance companies. Because we are more careful to see how they fulfill their obligations to insurers. On the other hand, an entity is set up to ensure that the rules we set are enforced by those insurance companies. For the second reading, we can discuss some volumes, maybe correct them, and I absolutely share the term of insurance there. Although "Transitional positions" have a possibility of less than a year. There are certain circumstances surrounding the financing of this authorized body. If it's state-owned, I think it should be funded from the budget, but the idea itself can't but be accepted now. Because the situation is critical in this market and we are obliged to arrange it. I invite you, dear fellows, in the first reading to vote and work on the second. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u141	Mikola Dmitrovich Catherinechuk, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Prepare Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u142	European Party of Ukraine, Mikola Catherinechuk I'm going to represent the position of the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense." The position is that actually this bill, I think it's late for a year. In large numbers, it had to be taken in a package of anticrisis measures proposed for the banking sector. And it's a shame that today those people who might have influenced the recapitalisation of the banking market still haven't found the opportunity to look at the problem more broadly. Similarly, we had to find a balance sheet that is not available now, in the policy of refinancing the banking sphere between those who use the services of this market and those who earn it. And I don't think this bill is as perfect as any bill. But there are still things here that allow us not to create a situation that already has a few dozen banks in Ukraine. What's going on? If today, for example, there are more powers in the authorized body in the field of reservations, intimidation, the identification of the actual and normative reserve of payment capacity and other matters, in fact today people who have used insurance companies will be left with nothing to complain about. They're just going to get out, the insurance companies are going to pull out their assets, and they're going to leave all this noise to the people of Ukraine, to the government, to the National Bank, to the Public Prosecutor's Office and to the streets. And I think we have this opportunity today in a civilized way to start solving this problem, even late. There are flaws in this bill and they are essential. Here you have to find a reasonable balance between insurers and insured people. But it seems to me that this law can be adopted in the first reading and the faction of "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" will support it in the first reading with further elaboration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u143	Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, faction of "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u144	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense. Ladies and gentlemen, I have carefully studied this law several times. The law is totally lobbying, the law is not for every citizen. I don't see Mr. Stelmach here, I don't see anyone from the National Bank. Where are they? Because the National Bank Act is being amended, changes are being made, changes are being made to the structure, the introduction of the fund, and it is stated: “The National Bank’s structure includes a guarantee fund for insurance payments. It's a good idea, it's a great idea, but everything can be civilized: give me the bank, give me the calculations, give me everything. It's not finished in this part! The other part has been reworked and reworked so I ask: Why do I need the Civil Code? Why did we suffer so much when you foresaw the transfer of the insurance portfolio? So it was predicted that the insured person in a privileged situation and the insured person should only be concerned that he had been informed once that we wanted to transfer the portfolio, the second, the third, and then the run. No, break the deal because you've already been handed over. What about the Civil Code? And the civil law nature of the insurance contract, have any new rights been invented, insurance law? Obviously so, obviously a new right has been invented, because making changes through several laws has absolutely no answer from other committees that are interested in this. Therefore, dear friends, I would like to reject the “horns” of all of these, to strike at them, which are “touching” there, here very much of everything “touching” and additional taxes, and all. This needs to be done again first reading, and I will not take the courage and trust in this committee to do the "circumcision" as it is meant to do. I'm not voting for this law, although the ideas are good, there is no doubt, and these ideas are that you have to and guarantee investments, you have to do all of that. We need to rework very quickly, get rid of these stupid things that are there, involve another committee on banking and then make it really anti-crisis. As long as it's called an anti-crisis, there's nothing else. To reform the Civil Code, to interfere in civil law relations, obviously, you don't have to. So, dear friends, I doubted for a long time that it was better to accept or not to accept? And now I see that it's better not to accept, to finish, to narrow down the subject of regulation of this law, to keep the National Bank out of gear, and to everyone, without even asking the National Bank, realizing that there are problems. And it also says what to do, a bank that is obliged.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u145	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u146	Dear friends, imagine the article 32 with the badge 1: The National Bank is obliged to provide such a bank with a refund on certain conditions for a period of five days. That's normal, isn't it? Can you imagine? No order is required under the terms of the Deposit Guarantee Fund insurance policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u147	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u148	I ask you again, look carefully.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u149	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u150	the articles that are being introduced.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u151	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the draft law has been discussed. May I have your attention, please? I'll put it to a vote in this order. First. Take it as a base. If the Supreme Council of Ukraine doesn't support this, I'm going to put a second vote on the committee's proposal to accept it as a basis for removing a number of provisions from this law. And the third sentence, if the second is not supported, would be to re-direct the first reading. In this order. Is there no objection? That's why I'm putting to the vote a proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's laws to prevent the spread of the financial crisis on Ukraine's insurance market. Please vote. [[12:10:47]] For 203 The decision is not taken. Now, dear fellows, I am voting on the proposal of a committee of this kind. Take as a basis the exception of paragraphs 2 to 12 of subparagraph 8, paragraph 1, subparagraph "a", "b" and third and fourth paragraphs of subparagraph "c", paragraph 4 of section I. Therefore, I am voting on the proposal for a committee to adopt, on the basis of the draft law, with the exception of paragraphs 2 to 12 of subparagraph 8, paragraph 1, subparagraphs "a", "b" and third and fourth paragraphs of subparagraph "c", paragraph 4 of section 1. [[Registration number 4254]] Please vote. [[12:11:48]] For 197 The decision is not taken. I propose to vote a motion to re-read the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to prevent the spread of the effects of the financial crisis on the insurance market of Ukraine. [[Registration number 4254]] Please vote. [[12:12:24]] For 213 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I'm going to put a motion before the vote to continue the consideration of the bills under reduced procedure. Please vote. We need to pass laws concerning the election of the President of Ukraine, honourable colleagues. [[12:12:52]] For-142 The solution. Dear colleagues, after the break will be. I'm asking for your attention! After the break, there will be an opportunity to put to the vote, otherwise you will have to put the vote to a vote on the return to the vote, no votes will be raised, and after the break, you will have to mobilize. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 45 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u152	Invite the national deputies to the session room so that we can make decisions. Honorable National MPs. We're continuing our work. It's a proposal to consider bills in a simplified way. Today we need to determine the laws governing the election of the President of Ukraine in order to be clear in the country. So I'm putting this motion to a vote to review the bills on a reduced procedure, so please vote. [[12:46:39]] For 178. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we must not relax now, please. We need to put a number of bills into the agenda and decide on the decisions on these bills. I'm asking your support for an exhausting plan to. And I'm voting for the inclusion of 5233, 5233-1 in the agenda. This is a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on taxation for the lifting of the market. Governmental and MP. I'm betting on the vote for inclusion in the agenda. Please vote. Please vote. [[12:47:39]] For-188. The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I beg you, let's do it this way. Let's put it in the agenda, and then after the Supreme Council's discussion, well, one minute, and then the Supreme Council will determine what's going on, and then the decision will be in the decision-making process of the Supreme Council's position declared. I'm asking you to mobilize. Next. I'll put it to a vote. May I have your attention, please? On the inclusion in the agenda of the Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the facilitation of business conditions in Ukraine. [[Registration number 5235]] About getting into the daytime. Please vote. [[12:48:46]] For 291 Decision taken. It's on. Now let's move on, dear fellows. Let's take a look at the inclusions all to see how we can proceed. On the inclusion in the agenda of the Act on the Basic Principles of the State’s Interaction with Private Partners. [[Registration number 5239]] I'll bet you a vote on the inclusion in the agenda of the bill. Please vote. [[12:49:20]] For 292 Decision taken. They've put it in the order of the day. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of draft laws relating to amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine. [[Now I'm going to read them.]] [[Registration numbers: 5131, 5263, 5263-1, 5263-2, 5144]] For inclusion in the agenda, please vote. Dear colleagues, we need to put draft laws in order of the day. [[12:50:11]] For 323 Decision taken. We've put it into the agenda. And the last. Dear colleagues, I ask you, I will put to the vote the question of reintroduction into the agenda of drafts 5233, 5233-1. These are draft laws amending some Ukrainian legislation on taxation. [[about canceling the market]] I would like to vote on the return to the consideration of the issue of the inclusion of draft laws in the agenda. Please vote. [[12:51:00]] For 199 The decision is not taken. For the faction, please. Region Party – 0, "Club of Timoshenko" – 150, "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" – 26, Communist faction – 0, "Club of Lithuania" – 20, non-fractional – 3. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's do it this way. Please, each of the factions I give. What do you want? Please, mike, Oleg Easy.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u153	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, a respected citizen of the country, you have now had the opportunity to see how our political forces, who take care of the interests of small business, those who pay for the market, and how their words differ from what they do. Now we've suggested that we include and consider a government bill that provides for the lifting of the market assembly, that neither opposition nor other smaller factions vote. And so people are going to have to keep paying for that money. This is about when they go to the polls, telling how they support small businesses and those who trade in markets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u154	Just a minute. Please, calm down. Adam Martinyuk, then will determine who will be from the Party of Regions then he “Our Ukraine” will be Xenya Lapina? Xenia Lapina will be here. And from the "Block of Lithuania." All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u155	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, what's more, respectable voters! Of course, the name bribes, but those who say that the government cares about people who stand on the market, I want to call the figures: one point they cancel the market assembly, the other point they set you a 15 percent new tax. That's one thing. The other one. By simple calculations, your battles will increase by 18 percent. And third, most importantly. Today, the market congregation is responsible for the vast majority of local governments. And if you take the market, and you set 15 percent, or 15 percent, of another tax rate, it doesn't save a situation at all. So please, I'd like you to be consistent. At the beginning of the year, you even lost yourself to such a market congregation that your ears swelled.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u156	Please, from the Volodymyr Landik Party, microphone, please. Then Xenia Leapina.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u157	Thank you. Party of regions, Landik. You know, this bill that's being proposed is, in principle, a very clever question. We've been taking down the market fee from those who are trading, but another bill they've had since May has been developed that we've been investing it all on the market owners, on the owners of these kiosks, and so on, on real entrepreneurs, that's why they're selling real estate. And business people are getting laid. Where are they going to get them? They're going to take them again, but they're going to increase by 2-3. This one's gonna start working 2-3 times more, pay the realtor. But you stopped, you guys, the whole industry, you've got one market. At least that's how the local government lives from these bazaars. But if you're so smart, I don't mind, come on, Vladimir Mikhailovich, let's go back and let the whole country see what they're doing.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u158	One moment, dear fellows! Xenia Lapina, then Oleg Zarubinsky, then we'll ask the head of the committee, the head of the committee. Well, they've already spoken, they've exchanged, I'll put it to the vote. One moment, please!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u159	Thank you, Your Honor. Xenia Lapina, group “For Ukraine! ” Dear colleagues, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the bill of government is indeed completely misleading. It's actually increasing the pressure on small businesses especially because of the extra accounting that will flow as a result of this 15 percent tax. At the same time, my bill, which stands as an alternative, contains only cancellation of the market. This could be positive, but I realize that half a billion dollars are taken away from local councils at the same time and, in fact, no one in the government has said, but what kind of compensator is that? We are only considering this as an opportunity to start and encourage the adoption of a possibly tax code where, by the way, a comprehensive solution is proposed. In fact, we have to get rid of the market community, it's atavism, but we have to do it in such a way that it doesn't add to the burden on entrepreneurs, and at the same time it hasn't destroyed any of the locals' own arrivals.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u160	Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u161	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear colleagues, there is certainly a meaningful part and a procedural part. In terms of meaningful legislation, it would be very desirable that laws that deal with taxation, increase or reduce taxation not be passed during the electoral campaign period, that is understandable. That's why. This becomes a political feature and is the corresponding result of the vote. And as for the procedural part that. obviously the discussion that is currently taking place in the “reasons” regime was to take place after we had included it in the Supreme Council's consideration, because it is a serious discussion, and the legislative process foresees a serious discussion, not within one minute. What did those who did not vote in favour of the inclusion of the issue in the agenda for consideration? It's the function of the Supreme Council to consider, discuss and make the best decision. So it seems to me that those who did not vote for inclusion did not act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u162	Alexandra Kugel, please. And now. We've already convinced each other. I'll put it to a vote. This is a discussion. From the faction we spoke, there is no object.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u163	Thank you very much, Volodymyr Mikhailovich and the distinguished national deputies. Unfortunately, the letters I sent to the factions were not introduced to you. And then there wouldn't be any performances I'm afraid to hear today. I'd like to focus your attention on the market for two pieces of legislation: the Cabinet of Ministers and the President's decree. They contradict each other and give the opportunity -- I support the speakers -- to allow local self-government authorities to view the market assembly every year, depending on which document they prefer. Secondly, honourable national MPs, from entrepreneurs on the average, counting only registered markets, not natural ones, are gathering a market assembly of 1 billion 640. Local budgets have reached a maximum of 490 million. And that's why we understand market owners who raised the issue of resisting the market withdrawal. The third myth is that the market congregation is being withdrawn and additional taxes are being introduced. I've been preparing slides for you to show you on all grounds that this is a fraud: no tax in the government document, no substitute for the market congregation, and no transfer of pressure on the owners of the market. I mean, the market owners, they're going to be going down, because today they've got people who have to mark people who sell in markets every day. The grandmother, who sells vegetables, used to pay only for the market. Now she's paying off the market, plus rent, plus market services. And that's why we're offering it. And we've shown it to all the local administrations, there's a bill on the slide, and I'd point out in the Winnick City Administration example that at our suggestion, we're increasing the revenues to local budgets over half a billion, we're reducing the workload on the workers, and we're increasing the revenues to the Pensions. and other funds. And that's why I'm asking you to turn it on, discuss it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u164	Thank you. Dear colleagues, well, the information is proven. And this is another request, dear colleagues, I ask you, let's do it this way. I'd like to ask, let's go back to the inclusion issue, put it in the agenda, discuss the position that each faction holds. And then we'll tell you which part of it is supported, whether the law is not supported, and which law is supported, or whether they're both not supported. And we're going to make a normal, clear decision. Otherwise there will be excuses, honourable colleagues, for mutual accusation on one side and on the other. Let's avoid these excuses. I will therefore put to the vote, please note, the return to the consideration of the inclusion in the agenda of draft laws amending certain Ukrainian legislation on taxation. [[Registration numbers 5233, 5233-1]] [[about canceling the market]] Please vote, please vote. [[13:01:09]] For 196 The decision is not taken. A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the facilitation of business conditions in Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 5235]] The rapporteur is the National Deputy of Ukraine, head of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship of the Royal Natalya Juryevna. She's both a reporter and a co-reporter. Is that what I'm saying?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u165	Dear colleagues, respected by Vladimir Mihajlovich, we are today considering a bill whose purpose is to simplify business in our country. And today we have one of the few chances of putting a normal, serious start to regulatory reform and resolution reform. When we all talk about the endless love of our small and medium-sized business, when we all talk about the wrong economic structure in our country, we all have to be aware: until we remove the administrative barriers until we reform our resolution system until we remove the impression of officials from our business, business in our country will not develop. We don't have a middle class, we don't have any new jobs. I think it's a huge disgrace when out of the 183 places estimated by the World Bank of Ukraine, 142nd place under business conditions. I also believe that today we must not accept some national know-how, but we must adopt normal, fully worked practices in European countries, because in all developed countries and long-term leases, and the principle of silent consent today is a common reality. And we're all afraid, we're all afraid to give the business a chance to develop freely, we're all afraid to free the business of a corrupt car today. We are all together with the deputies, we all have to understand today: either we are removing the barriers and barriers that exist today for business, or we are stopping the debate on the free development of business in our country. The Committee therefore refers to the entire House of Parliament. The drafters are representatives of almost all the political forces present in the Chamber today. And we very much hope that we will be able to adopt this bill on first reading and generally as a law today. And let's make it clear to the business that they're starting to form normal.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u166	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u167	Please support this bill in its first reading and generally as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u168	Thank you, sit down, please. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for the bill. Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes Please put the name of the national MPs on the board. Yuri Serbin, please, the faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u169	Respectful colleagues certainly need and need to adopt the law, for there are many other simplification issues ahead of us, and we still need to start this work. We have, for example, the same thing happening in construction, and we have a very low level of space in the world and in Europe under arbitrary procedures. And what a colleague of the Royal is now proposing is to be accepted in the first reading, and we will support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u170	Thank you. Alexy Plotnikov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u171	Indeed, it is a positive bill. There is an offer to accept it as a basis. The only point to be made here is that the statutory capital of limited liability societies, the statutory capital of these societies respectively, guarantees the satisfaction of creditors’ claims. And if you look at this bill, there is a proposal to reduce to one minimum wage, i.e. in which case limited companies will not bear any responsibility for the conditions and contracts there. Although in principle it is a positive bill for first reading, there is once again a proposal to accept it as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u172	Thank you. Dear colleagues, those who have not spoken are entitled to one of the factions, but within one minute. Oleg Zarubinski, then Kseniya Liapina. Please turn on Oleg Zarubinski's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u173	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, I don't think there will be any serious comments on the first reading of this bill. But there is an important point. Fellow dignitaries, remember how the Ministry of Finance has drawn many expert conclusions, variously when it comes to the adoption of the Law on Social Guarantees, the minimum of living, the minimum of wages. And here's a very important bill about business, about facilitating conditions for businessmen. And in this bill, the materials that are presented do not have a well-formed expert conclusion from the Ministry of Finance. By the way, as in many other bills that apply to this area. Because that's where you need it, and that's where the extra cost is going to be, so this bill is going to have an impact on the revenue section. I would ask the Ministry of Finance, not selectively, to make expert evaluations, but to perform its functions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u174	Xenia Leapina, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense."
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u175	Xenia Lapina, group “For Ukraine!” I want to be a co-author just to ask everyone to support this law. I know that, unfortunately, we've practically considered it in both readings, and it would already be the law if, for various reasons of fear, it wasn't under the Rules, we didn't crash into this room. I ask that the second time his fate will not be met. Fears are meaningless. Yes, there is an indefinite license, but there is an opportunity for the government to make exceptions to those types of licensing that he thinks are particularly dangerous, and it is possible to set a deadline. Yes, it contains the principle of silent consent. I remind all my respectable colleagues that there's nothing to worry about. Because there's the idea here that if an entrepreneur doesn't have a paper, he can't work. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. If the body has not refused at the right time, the entrepreneur should work, otherwise we only divorce corruption.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u176	Do you have everyone? Thank you. Dear colleagues, the speech is over. I'm going to put the committee's proposal on the ground, and I'm going to put it to a vote now, in the first part, about accepting it as a basis, and we're going to continue to define ourselves. No objections? Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal for the first adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on simplifying business conditions in Ukraine. [[Registration number 5235]] Please vote. [[13:09:16]] For 305 Decision taken. The committee proposes to accept the project as a whole. What are some warnings? Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u177	Dear colleagues, I support the adoption in general, but I would ask for insurance anyway to exclude article 26 of the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage, which stipulates that we exclude such a rule from the law in force. “Project development and maintenance, restoration, rehabilitation, modification, repair, adjustment are carried out on the basis of the existence of a designer and performer, licences issued in accordance with the law. The development of the project is preceded by the conduct of necessary scientific research, including archaeological and geological work.” What does that mean? In Kiev, for example, we have these cases where we start doing this work and in the operational order, these are historical monuments, archaeologists have not conducted an expert study, not checked, not looked at. For example, there are construction companies that have never worked with historical monuments, such as the Middle Ages, and they do not need to work. So I do not think we are ready to simplify the process of building works in the area of restoration of historical monuments. I'd leave this rule to be feared, and after a while, I'd go back to it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u178	The committee doesn't mind? He doesn't mind. Alexander Kugel is the head of the committee, one thread.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u179	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask you to support the drafting of the committee, because there are a lot of references to rural, rural and district councils on abuse in this direction. To build a queen today, you will have to pay a million dollars to build a queen. To build its own building on 15 hundred in a village, they have to pay 30 dollars. They make, they go out into the field, they drop the shells. We take into account the culture of the introduction and preservation of cultural heritage, but it's impossible to make money on people.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u180	I'm sorry, dear colleagues, let's not offend each other here and people who know what to do. The law defines what “historical monument ” is. What's with the cows and the fields? If a historical monument is clearly provided for by law, it is necessary to act as a historical monument. If someone threw a skull in the field, there is no need for restoration. So I insist that this norm be excluded.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u181	Dear colleagues, let's now listen to two committees and then we'll make decisions. Vladimir Yavorowski is head of the committee and then Natala Kraljevska.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u182	Vladimir Yavorowski, head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality Dear colleagues, let us make this debate clear today. Mikola Tomenko is absolutely right that, in fact, we can't simplify, let's say, there's all kinds of procedures for restoring unique memories and all that sort of thing because we're going to do stupid things. But another issue, indeed, is the law that very clearly regulates who has the right to engage. And Kugel is right about what today is. And I've decided to help build a stake in my own village today, and you can imagine that it would take, where, by the way, once a bet, it was necessary for archaeology and others to have colossal money paid for it. Therefore, let us separate ourselves from one another, simply abusing this law. But here, let's actually hear Tomenka's voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u183	Natalia Kraljevska, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u184	Respectable colleagues, distinguished present! We have a huge request and the committee stands ready to adopt the opinion of Nikolai Tomenko, who is the author of the bill, for the same purpose that we today adopt it as a law and stop obstructing regulatory reform. But I would like to remind everyone that licensing is only introduced when this activity threatens the lives and health of citizens and the environment and the security of the State. In all other cases, we have a system of certification, standardization and mass. And 80 other authorities in our country that can exercise State control. But in this case, I support Nikolai Tomenko, so let's adopt this law, and we won't keep talking about it, please. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u185	Please, the position of the committee. Well, Yuri Serbin, please, we'll talk now and we won't adopt the law. Please. Then Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u186	Dear colleagues, I apologize. That's Mr. Tomenko's true point, but that's not what we're talking about. There's a law that says who can do the restorative work, and we don't cancel it. But in order for it to go through, I also agree with that, so you can agree with the original drafting of the committee. Because what the esteemed Deputy Head of the Supreme Council says does not apply to this when we exclude.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u187	Adam Martinyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u188	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich! Our faction firmly denies the adoption of the law as a whole as a law, so we must send it to the second reading. To what Mikola Volodymyrovich just said, I'm going to add one equally vulnerable and important. This bill takes away any licenses for work relating to melioration and other security processes near the ground. You can imagine that everyone is building meliorational structures, as he will, and he will build them. So our faction against him being accepted as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u189	Dear colleagues, let's do this now. Since there was an offer, the majority here insisted that we take it as a whole. I've laid the groundwork. Then we came up with an offer not to consider at all. Let me put it this way. I'll put it to a vote. Whether the Supreme Council will support the offer to accept it. Adam Ivanovich, Adam Ivanovich, Adam Ivanovich, Adam Ivanovich, please listen! I know that. [[B in m in s a l in]] Adam Ivanovich, that's exactly the choice we put to the vote yesterday. So I would like to be given the opportunity to direct the meetings, Adam Ivanovich. When this side was shouted, there was a denial -- I put it to the vote at your request, and you passed the law. So let's balance the situation. [[B in m in s a l in]] Adam Ivanovich, please, please. So, dear colleagues, I'm going to put this proposal to the vote. Whether the Supreme Council supports the committee's proposal to consider now the adoption of the whole bill. If the Supreme Council supports - I will put a second proposal to the vote - to accept in general with the deletion of article 26 concerning the Ukrainian Cultural Heritage Act. If I don't, then I'm going to put it to a vote with a shortcut to prepare for the second reading. That's how the algorithm is going to be. And we will comply fully with the Rules. I'm voting on the proposal to now consider the recommendation of the committee on the adoption of the law as a whole. Please vote. [[13:17:12]] For 216 The decision is not taken. I'm voting on the second proposal to prepare the law for the second reading under a reduced procedure. Please vote. Next plenary week on November 17th. [[13:17:37]] For 310 Decision taken. Thank you. It is announced for consideration of the draft Law on the Basic Principles of the State’s Interaction with Private Partners. [[Registration number 5239]] The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship. And as one of the co-authors of the law and head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u190	Dear colleagues! Dearly-respected are those who are present. You know, we've been reviewing the previous bill for 11 months in the Supreme Council, and this will be 11 months, and we've been through it four times. I think who's just reading the agenda can really know every one of those bills. But I would like to remind everyone that we are talking about a public private partnership, we are talking about a clear and understandable declaration, both by the State and by business, within what framework and under what conditions they can work. Vladimir Mikhailovich and I have recently been to London City, the business center of the world, we can say. And the first question at the investor meeting that we were asked was, and when the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which is almost the only country in European space today, will adopt the Public-Private Partnership Act when Ukraine can declare its principles of relations with business and investors, because as long as we have thousands of amendments to each tax law, we have 80 supervisory authorities and a thousand audits per year until then, no sound investor will come to our country. As long as we do not attract investment until we create jobs to talk about serious modernization, about innovation and investment development in our country, it is just a great stuporship. And we are well aware that a government machine is not in a position to modernize completely obsolete core funds today. More than 80 per cent of the core funds in the leading industries. Today, the Committee proposes to move away from political ambitions. Once again, the drafters of this bill are representatives of all the main forces of Parliament. We worked together in the working group on each paragraph of the bill. We have removed all the difficult points, the conflicting points that had been held before and against which the people's deputies had opposed. We've already done, you could say, a sterile bill. We therefore propose that it be adopted as a law on first reading and generally as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u191	Thank you, Natalia Yuriovna. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the discussion. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Vladimir Karpuk, faction of our Ukrainian People's Self-Defense. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u192	Vladimir Karpuk, deputy faction “For Ukraine!” Please pass the word to Xena Lapinius.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u193	Xenia Leapina, microphone. Can you do it here like you do? Microphone, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u194	Xenia Lapina, group “For Ukraine!” Dear colleagues, as coauthor of this law, I sincerely ask you to support him. I'll remind you. This bill was also discussed with you in the hall in two readings. And he also became a victim of completely incomprehensible innuendo, when he was actually voted down as a whole. I want to point out that all the real warnings are removed from this law. In fact, this law, yes, it's more eloquent. But this declaration is essential today. Because those who are concerned that this could somehow lead to the loss of government property, I will remind them. On the contrary, this law protects public property and establishes transparent and very clear rules for relations between a private partner and a state regarding its public property. He sets out a number of principles that are essential in the country today in order for private investment to be invested in areas in which the state cannot make a penny. For example, such as housing and utilities. We've discussed with you a hundred times that we're on the verge of a technological catastrophe and there's no money to prevent it. A private partner can be a real partner here. I sincerely ask that we do not talk about this law here again and that it does not fall victim to various political innuendo. This law is vital to the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u195	Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u196	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Do you know what the author of the bill is absolutely right about? That he's a declarant. That's true, because the mechanism and the instrument for implementing the right positions that are set out in this bill are not included. I don't want to say that this is something that doesn't allow you to support it. But I would like to point out that declarations have to be combined with instruments for their implementation in practice. First position. Second position. It has been said that the state in today’s conditions cannot carry out all the projects on its own and so forth. That's right. But it doesn't have to do all the projects. Because those countries that we call advanced economically, in large part, have developed and implemented large-scale projects of a national species and a national scale, at the expense of private and largely foreign investment. And in terms of, you know, you know, even countries like the United States. If you count the Japanese share, for example, or the Chinese investment, it's just huge parameters. What I didn't like? I mean, honestly, even though I think we're going to support this bill, it's worth supporting. So what were the criteria that, if you're sorry for the tautology, determine what areas these projects can be implemented? I counted 11 criteria. Why not others? What was the definition? Because there are many more areas where private investment is needed. And there's more. I have serious doubts about our current Ukrainian practice. Here is the search, exploration of crops, beneficial fossils, and their extraction. Well, you know, it's very hard to see, knowing that Ukrainian ancestry today is already in private hands. It is not possible to reach and find out who these gasses and oil wells are. It seems that the state has lost its resources here for a long time.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u197	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u198	And I think I've lost consciousness because of those officials who are obviously co-owners of the real companies that are working in these genealogies that are meant to belong to the entire nation -- this is the Constitution of Ukraine. I have my doubts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u199	Dear colleagues, all who signed up, took the floor. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. Is there no objection? A proposal for a committee to adopt a draft law on the basic principles of the State’s interaction with private partners is put to the vote. [[Registration number 5239]] Please vote. [[13:25:41]] For 293 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine is being considered. [[on the characteristics of the election order]] [[Registration number 5131]] The rapporteur is Ukrainian national deputy Podgorny Sergey Petrovich. Correspondent is Deputy Head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government Yuri Bogdanovic Klukkowski. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u200	Honorable colleagues, distinguished presidencies, distinguished audiences! Immediately after the adoption of the Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts, everyone knew that there would be an appeal to the Constitutional Court, and there would be a decision by the Constitutional Court from some points. [[on the election of the President]] So I immediately prepared a bill on September 15, which suggested that some of the provisions of this law be brought into line. This is what the bill proposes for Ukrainian citizens who live or stay outside Ukraine during the preparatory period, holding elections A new approach to the beginning of the end of the electoral commission. That is, I propose that we apply the standard that has already been applied today in the election of the National Deputies on the oath of members of the District Commissions and some other points. Considering that today we will be considering three more bills that relate to these points and some others, as well as changes to some other laws, in particular codes. I, despite the fact that the bill has a positive conclusion from the scientific and expert board, as well as a positive decision from the committee, take it off the table, ask it not to vote today, and those positions that I believe are necessary, I will bring to the committee when working on the second reading of the bill that will be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u201	Dear colleagues, the drafter of the bill asks that this bill be withdrawn. Is there no objection? None. The draft Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian Legislative Acts on Elections of the President of Ukraine (drafts of the laws of registration: 5263 (which is the author of the National Deputy of Ukraine Valerius Pisarenko), 5263-1 (author of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Olena Lukas) and 5263-2 (which is a bill from the President of Ukraine, will be the spokesperson for the Deputy Head of the Ukrainian Secretariat, Martin Stavniczuk, and co-Rapporteur – head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, Sergey Petrovich Podgorny). Let's move on to the question. Valerius Volodymyrovich Pisarenko has the floor for the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u202	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, today we will continue to improve the President's electoral legislation. I would like to point out immediately that the Constitutional Court's decision has not created any gaps in electoral legislation and today there is no reason to fear that the electoral process may be disrupted or no electoral action will be carried out during the electoral process. So today you will have three bills, each of which has its own positives and perhaps its faults, which are not agreed upon by any political force. I want to call on the session room today to support one of the bills on which we can work on the committee and make a bill that will be accepted not only inside Ukraine but also in Europe. I want to remind all my colleagues that right after we passed the bill with you, there was a meeting of the Venice Commission, which made some good suggestions to Ukraine, as in any case, in my bill. We have made separate proposals that we propose to incorporate into the law, into the existing legislation, so that today Ukrainian electoral legislation is more European. We suggest that we return as observers to public intergovernmental organizations. We're proposing to extend some of the observer rights, and we're also proposing something to bring up the technical issues that are in the law today. I can tell you one thing about today, these three bills that you're going to be today. For which you will vote, they have about 70 to 80 percent in common, but there are principles of differences that will be considered in the session room today anyway. And most importantly, it's a matter of making changes to the voter list on the day of the vote. I think the debate on this question is how it's going to go.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u203	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u204	The discussion on this issue will continue in the session room, but most importantly, we need to choose one of the bills today. The committee's decision is to stop at that bill that I signed and submitted, but today I don't think we need to look at the colors of these bills, we need electoral legislation to match not only our mood, but also European traditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u205	Thank you. Helen Leonidovna Lukash, please, with regard to the draft law of registration number 5263-1.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u206	Dear voters! Dear colleagues, present! At the same time as my colleague Valérie Pisarenko, a bill was introduced to amend some of the legislative acts concerning the election of the President of Ukraine. It foresees a series of amendments to the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code, the Ukrainian Administrative Judicial Code, the Ukrainian laws: “For Elections” and “For the National Electoral Register”. The basic features of my bill. It refers to the establishment of time limits for the introduction into district constituencies of statements on the establishment of ordinary constituencies, the establishment of an institution of official observers from public organisations, the elimination of contradictions in the Code of Administrative Justice to the determination of the jurisdiction of administrative matters, and the determination of the criminal prosecution's jurisdiction in voting offences. At the same time, the main difference between the rest of the bills is that all should ensure the right of the citizen to choose and, secondly, the will to do so should be ensured, in particular with regard to the possibility of amending the specified list of voters at the polls on the day of the vote. This is the main difference between my bill and the proposed bill. And I don't think the authorities have been able to implement a current and full voter register. The main donors of the voter register for today are the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Ministry of Justice, which, for reasons unknown to me, are: inaction, negligence, sabotage – do not fill the State register of voters with relevant and complete data, and so we should leave to the electorate the opportunity to specify ourselves on the day of the vote directly in the polling stations if the authorities do not grant them that right. I also propose to improve the order of the establishment of a district election committee. An innovation in the law is the order of acquisition and termination by the District Election Commission of the status of a legal person. I propose separately to determine the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine by a court which examines in individual cases the relevance of the pre-election programme of the candidate for the post of President of Ukraine. The proposed changes too.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u207	Please, yes, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u208	In principle, the proposed changes are, in fact, technical in addition to voting and changing voter lists. And I'm asking you to support them.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u209	Thank you. Have a seat. Deputy Head of the Ukrainian Presidential Secretariat, Stavniychuk Marina Ivanovna With regard to the bill on registration number 5263-2, the bill by the President of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u210	The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council, distinguished national deputies present at the meeting of the Supreme Council! The President of Ukraine proposes amendments to the following legislative acts: The Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine, as well as the Code of Administrative Justice. It is appropriate to limit ourselves to the most urgent legislative changes under these conditions, without violating the integrity of the key provisions of the laws and the unity of the mechanisms of legal regulation. The President of Ukraine proposes to take into account the experience, to remove the disagreements between the Presidential Elections Act and to take into account the decisions of the Constitutional Court and the recommendations of the Venice Commission and the OSCE Bureau of Democratic Initiatives. So the rule on the maximum number of voters at the polling station has to be harmonised according to the legislation on election of national deputies, not 3,000, but 3,000 and a half voters, which is in line with the recommendations of the Venice Commission. Specifying the selection area classification is also provided. To date, the election law of the President of Ukraine does not contain any continuation of the law. So, including the fact that there is no classification for the different number of constituencies, depending on the number of voters in the constituency, and the main thing is that there is no equal representation of candidates for the post of President of Ukraine in the formation of the management of the electoral boards. This is suggested to be removed from the President's proposal. In addition, changes are being initiated in the formation and organization of election committees, the knowledge of voting restrictions depending on the place of residence, the improvement of the mechanism for the establishment of special constituencies. In particular, employees of an appropriate institution or institution may not be part of the electoral boards of special constituencies. It is proposed to improve the mechanism for the distribution of management positions in election committees by ensuring equality of candidates and order.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u211	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u212	I'd like to have a lot of comments, a whole bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u213	It's not an observation, it's an offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u214	Suggestions, yes, Vladimir Mikhailovich. In addition, it is suggested that the order of the voter lists be clarified and clarified, including in part of the number of complaints of irregularities in the voter lists. It is estimated that two days before the election day, the lists are closed and no changes are made to the lists except in cases decided by the court. It is also proposed to clarify the voting mechanism of citizens who are on the day of the vote outside the State. It is proposed that an application be made for inclusion in the voter list at an appropriate foreign electoral office of citizens who are outside the State. It is suggested that the monetary bond institution be clarified, without changing the size of the monetary bond, and it is proposed that the real nature of the mechanism be made available. It is also suggested that certain restrictions be imposed on the conduct of pre-election campaigns, such as foreign citizens, organizations, and so forth. It is granted the right to official observers from public organizations, and it is complemented by law. What is extremely important, the distinguished national MPs, are offered a new edition of the relevant articles, which determine the order and requirements of the form, the content of the election ballot, the order of their production and the transfer to the election committee. It is vital that we clarify the requirements for ballot boxes. They must be stamped in a centralized order for the Central Electoral Commission to use a single sample, which has a series and a number to prevent such falsifications. In addition, it is proposed to add to the law a mechanism that is not yet in place to establish results within a separate foreign constituency. Today, there is no such mechanism in the electoral law. It is also proposed, of course, to clarify the procedure for establishing the results of the elections by the Central Electoral Commission, as well as the procedure for the official publication of the results of the elections of the President of Ukraine. With regard to the Code of Administrative Justice, in short, it is proposed to refer the procedure of the prosecution, the judicial charge of the regulation solely to the Code of Administrative Justice, excluding in accordance with the Electoral Law all the rules relating to the order of the judicial charge. It is also suggested that the subjective and territorial jurisdiction of the case be clarified. In addition, it is suggested that all matters relating to election disputes should be dealt with exclusively in a collective manner. To date, the Code of Administrative Justice provides for a single hearing of judicial disputes. This is unacceptable. It is also proposed at the level of the Code of Administrative Justice to clarify procedures, lines, and so forth. Ladies and gentlemen, please support the President of Ukraine's project, which has been submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and has been designated prime minister. And we have no doubt that, together with the Supreme Council today, there is an urgent need to clarify the Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine, other codes relating to these. Other normative acts that relate to these elections and create a normal basis for the election of the President of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u215	Thank you, Marina Ivanovna. Have a seat, please. Upper Sergei Petrovich, please make the decision of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u216	Dear colleagues, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government, commissioned by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 2 November, reviewed the draft laws of Ukraine that we are currently considering with you. The bill proposes to amend the Ukrainian Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine and the Code of Administrative Justice of Ukraine. The bill also proposes to amend the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code, while Bill 5263-1 also proposes to amend the Ukrainian Law on the State Register of Voters. [[Registration numbers 5263 and 5263-1]] The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has drawn up conclusions on the drafts and believes that, as a result of the first reading, each of them can be accepted on the basis of the comments made to them. The Committee supported the initiative of the authors of all draft laws and agreed that the individual provisions of the above-mentioned legislative acts of Ukraine need to be improved, taking into account the decisions of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine No.26-RP/209 of 19 October 2009 in the case of the constitutional submission of the President of Ukraine and 48 national deputies of Ukraine on the constitutionality of individual provisions of Ukraine's laws on the election of the President of Ukraine, on the State Register of Voters, on the amendment of certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the election of the President of Ukraine and on the Code of Administrative Justice of Ukraine. In doing so, the committee notes that each of the bills contains legislative proposals that, unfortunately, are not included in other bills. Let's say the bill submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputy Valérie Pisarenko contains positions that clarify the question of the formation and filling of the electoral fund of the candidate for the post of President of Ukraine. [[Registration number 5263]] The bill submitted by Olena Lukas, a national deputy of Ukraine, proposes to supplement the Presidential Elections Act with a new article and to settle acquisition issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u217	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u218	and the termination by the District Election Commission of the status of a legal person. Draft Law 5263-2, submitted by the President of Ukraine, proposes to amend the bill in order to improve its provisions in order to determine the order of production and transfer to the election boards of election ballots, to organize the voter vote for some other points. The committee concluded by voting most of the people's deputies: recommending the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a result of the first reading of the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian Legislative Acts on Presidential Elections, which was the first to be submitted to Parliament. [[six-for-one-again, one-on-one-on-vote]] [[Registration number 5263]] At the same time, the committee considers it appropriate if this bill is adopted as a basis in preparing it for consideration by Parliament on second reading, to take into account legislative proposals by the drafters. [[Registration numbers 5263-1, 5263-2 and 5131]] Given the relevance of the draft Ukrainian law amending some Ukrainian legislative acts on the election of the President of Ukraine, and considering that the electoral process in the election of the President of Ukraine had already begun, the committee considered it appropriate to shorten the deadlines for the introduction of proposals and amendments to the bill and to prepare it for consideration in the second reading by a reduced procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u219	Thank you, Sergey Petrovich. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for a bill discussion. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? Vadim Kolisnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. Please turn on the microphone. Next is Knjazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u220	Dear colleagues, we have considered three bills aimed at improving the electoral process during the President's election. But we think the best bill we had to support is 5263-1. Because it removes the shortcomings of a valid editorial and gives the key, this is an opportunity to make changes to the voter list on the day of the election committee vote. We realize that the authorities have done everything they can to break the voter register, and it's very weak and very unqualified. Because even the orientations we have today tell us the main thing: the authorities have done everything they can to reduce the number of voters in those regions that support the Party of Regions and Viktor Yanukovic. That is why we must ensure that the human right to vote, the human right to vote, and that the constituencies can make changes to the electoral lists on the day of the vote. In this way we will ensure the transparent, democratic and free will of our electorate. We propose to support Bill 5263-1, accept it as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u221	Ruslan Knazevitch, faction of our Ukrainian People's Self-Defense. Adam Martinyuk will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u222	Dear colleagues, of course, will not be able to express the basic position of their opinions on the drafts in a brief procedure, but I'm paying attention to the fact that we're discussing three bills today and one of them being removed from the agenda. Moreover, I assure you that the vast majority of these bills go far beyond what the Constitutional Court and the Venice Commission have pointed to. The question is: Why? And because at the first stage, when we started discussing the possibility of amending the Presidential Elections Act, we needed to approach the amendments to the President's Elections Act in a comprehensive way, if we were to, in fact, eliminate the contradictions that were the basis for what was in 2004. But that was not what was supposed to happen. There was a very different scenario here, remember, another euphoric mood, a fast-adopted bill so tiny, because it was said, you know, this is how we can make a deal, if we start making more deals, we can't make a deal. As a result, we have what we have and go back to the first stage, we've been asked again about public organizations, we've been reminded once again that district commissions need just in case legal status to give a legal person, because they can't get money. Once again, it was mentioned that it was absolutely right and wise to decide something, because commissions could be removed from the premises where they were sitting, anyone and any other reason. The good idea is that if there really is an alcoholic or a drug addict, it might be worth it. But if we accept this rule, tomorrow 90 percent will be recognized by alcoholics and will be removed from the area and then go “in a pig voice”, sorry, prove that you had nothing to do with alcoholism at the time. It's saying that if we want to think about it today and no one wants to accept the bill, we have to do what we do. And if we really want to achieve a result, then the one that has the greatest, let's say, precision to the vast majority of the norms, and at this point it's the Presidential Bill, to take the basis, and to take into account in detail, during the second reading procedure, those useful remarks that are in other bills. Because if we don't, then eventually this bill will, in principle, be a veto subject that we can hardly overcome.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u223	Thank you. Adam Martinyuk, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u224	Dear colleagues, by examining all three drafts, we can thank each of the authors for joining in this work. And really, there's something in each of the bills that's worth considering, but it's in each of the three bills, not one that's worth it. We've come with you, see what you're doing. When they passed the Presidential Elections Act, they accepted it very quickly, they accepted it very quickly, they agreed on two, and no one else was involved. Now they're looking for ways out, because they've found that what's happening quickly isn't always going to be normal. Second offer. Not once on the Conciliation Council, and in principle, ten days ago the faction leaders decided that we were going out with the only agreed option of amendments to the Presidential Elections Act, and we didn't take all the novelties and wishes of the authors into account, because this process could be endless, but we only go: A. From the decisions of the Constitutional Court, and as far as possible, we take into account any or all of the wishes of the Venice Commission. And if such a harmonized version had been prepared, it would certainly have been accepted. And one more thing, probably the most important. Since we're going to make changes to the President's Elections Act today, it's more likely that we're not going to make any changes to the President's Election Act today. The presidential election doesn't go away. The presidential election, unfortunately or fortunately, will take place. Unfortunately, as far as we're concerned, as many laws as we've written, falsifications will remain. Only every political power, writing one norm, sees its candidate in this law and comes out of the way to help by writing a law to its candidate.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u225	Finish up. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u226	Anyway, please, we'll make that decision. The faction leaders unanimously accepted and agreed that if we needed to change, we would make a consistent solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u227	Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u228	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Oleg Zarubinsky, Block of Lithuania. Dear colleagues, I have three bills in my hands. On the other hand, each took a look at the marker and pointed out the things that must be taken. I don't see why it's all scattered around three bills. Especially with regard to the first and second bills, which are MPs. I don't understand. Frankly, none of them can be voted for in general. And that's because everyone understands that the flaws that were in the bill that was voted by the Supreme Council are known to all. And to this day, everyone in their comments is very clear, very good at talking about these flaws. For example, if a person has a Ukrainian citizen’s passport and is abroad and is not on a consular bill, it is nowhere to be said what he is obliged to do. Why does she lose her voice? Why is it that if a person is not living and is not present, he is not registered in the appropriate area because he cannot join a district commission or district commission? I mean, the nonsense that was in that bill is a lot and a lot of things that everyone understands is nonsense, which allows me to say that it was done on purpose. Based on what there are three bills, based on what all of these are, sorry, or milder to say, there are no conscious errors, not all of them implemented in each individual bill, we are left with one, or to go the way Adam Ivanovich proposes and wait for when the bill is harmonized, but nevertheless to give green light to one of these bills, to vote on the basis of this bill and all of these moments, by the way, there is also a positive in the colleague of the Upper House is though he has withdrawn his bill and all these positives are introduced in order to have, in fact, a harmonized one bill, because if this bill is adopted by one vote more than.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u229	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u230	Two hundred and twenty - five, this is not the kind of law that can be passed with twenty - six votes, understand. It's a bill that's supposed to be, uh, more sacred to the Pope of Rome, almost by consensus accepted. So that's what I'm proposing.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u231	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. There was no statement from the BUT faction. Olga Bodnar.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u232	Olga Bodnar, Timoshenko Street. The Bill 5263, subject of the Pisarenko Legislative Initiative, will be supported by the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. I can tell you what the main novels themselves, which are taken into account as a result of the Constitutional Court's decision and the recommendations of the Venice Commission are contained in this bill. First. The voting rate “against all” shall be deleted. Dear colleagues, you know very well what will be revealed. Volunteering is when a person comes and wants to express his vision of a candidate and chooses for himself and his country for five years of the future president. And when a person wants to come and just show off at the will of other citizens, he would rather sit at home. In addition, the bill contains such a norm that it will make it impossible to falsify voter lists on the day of the vote. That is, the charges and amendments are not provided for by this bill on election day.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u233	Bills are closed. Dear colleagues, I will now put to the vote, just one generalization. We obviously have to give people the opportunity and create all the possibilities for people to be free to take their stand. And if today people are told that there will be only one and no one else, you still want to take the right to vote against everyone and to force someone to vote for them. That's not right. So, your honor, I'm putting the motion to the vote, please. That's right. For adoption as the basis of the draft law, the author of the National MP of Ukraine, Valérie Pisarenko. [[Registration number 5263]] Based on the base. [[No. 5263]] [[13:56:09]] For 201 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on a motion for adoption on the basis of the draft law, the author of the national deputy of Ukraine, Lukash Olena Leonidivna. [[Registration number 5263-1]] Please vote. [[13:56:43]] For-149 The decision is not taken. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts regarding the election of the President of Ukraine. Bill from the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[13:57:21]] For 227 Decision taken. The bill was adopted as a basis. I'm continuing our meeting for 15 minutes in the morning. The draft Law on Amendments to the Code is being announced for consideration. What? Cancel the question. What's the offer? Yuri Klukkowski, please. Prepare for a reduced procedure. I am voting on the proposal to have the committee prepare a bill for consideration in the second reading on a simplified procedure. [[Registration number 5263-2]] [[13:58:26]] For 318 Decision taken. A draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Judiciality of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on the elimination of inaccuracies in the complaint procedure of national elections]] Sphenov Dmitry Juryovich will report on this bill and the committee's decision. Dear colleagues. The point is. On, on.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u234	Respected colleagues, the bill is complementary to article 172 of the Code of Administrative Procedure, which requires the following. On 21 August 2009, a number of articles of the Code of Administrative Procedure were amended. In particular, the new edition of article 18 provides that the Supreme Administrative Court shall be subject to cases concerning the establishment of the Central Electoral Commission of the results of both the elections and the All-Ukrainian referendum. Given the provision of article 176, which provides that the decision of the Supreme Administrative Court is final and is not subject to review, the Supreme Administrative Court is the only and final authority to determine the results of the elections by the Central Electoral Commission. However, article 172 of the Code provides to date that the Supreme Administrative Court shall appeal against the failure of the Central Electoral Commission only in respect of the referendum, while all others shall appeal to the Kiev Administrative Court of Appeal. There was therefore a conflict of rules regarding the court, which should consider disputes over the establishment of the election results by the Central Electoral Commission. This conflict is proposed to be eliminated by additions, after which part three of article 172 of the Code of Administrative Procedure will read as follows: “The decision, action or omission of the Central Electoral Commission on elections or the Ukrainian referendum shall be appealed to the Supreme Administrative Court”. The bill is supported by the Supreme and the Supreme Administrative Courts without any comment, as well as by the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Justice Committee considered the bill and, at its meeting on 23 September, supported the idea of these changes and decided to adopt the bill as a basis and as a whole, as a law. Please support the decision of the Committee and the author of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u235	Thank you, Dmitri Juryovich. Is there a need to discuss? There's a need. Please log in. Sit down, Dmitri Yuriovich. Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovich, please. Please press your cards. Koleschenko Vadim Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u236	My fellow Members, I believe on behalf of the faction of the regions that it is necessary to support this bill because it is strictly technical and we must accept it in connection with the adoption of amendments to the Presidential Election Act, the report is very well substantiated and has made it clear that this issue is strictly technical and that we must bring to law what can be said not only the results of the U.S. referendum, the Supreme Administrative Court, but also the results of the elections. We propose to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u237	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u238	Dear National Deputies! Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". I'm going to make a completely diametrical counteroffer, which is that we've just passed the law with you on the first reading suddenly, but it's the President's law where the first reading of the law already takes these proposals into account. So that's why this law should not be considered at all right now, because it's already accounted for. So the details, the details that someone doesn't like in an editorial way, can then be considered within the scope of the law that we've reduced the term to. This law is now out of the question. If we hadn't passed the law under the President's decree, but we'd have passed the bill first, or Pisarenko first, or Upper, or Lukash, then it would have been necessary to pass the law. On the basis of the President's comprehensive proposal law, the need for the adoption of this law is no longer needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u239	Ladies and gentlemen, this is nowhere to be seen, because we have today's regulation of the process in various legislative acts, and one of them has a gap. So we don't have any guarantees for adoption today in general of any draft law in which the issue will be resolved already. There's a faction that didn't act because it wasn't recorded. Please, Portnov Andry Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u240	Andrew Portnov, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. Dear colleagues, in fact, the law in force and the Code of Administrative Justice, and the Presidential Elections Act clearly regulates this, the indictment of the results of the presidential election is the competence of the Supreme Administrative Court. But in view of the fact that our colleagues have come to believe that perhaps some of the inaccuracies in the laws can then affect and create disputes among the courts of administrative justice, there is a proposal to support the bill and to vote in favour of it now in the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u241	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. I am voting on the adoption of the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Justice in the first reading. [[Registration number 5144]] I'd like to make a statement. [[14:05:19]] For 247 Decision taken. The committee's proposal was to accept it as a whole, since this only applies to one technical moment. Is there no objection? None. Is there a denial? If there is a denial of Ukrainian national MPs, then the law is being prepared for second reading. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please provide suggestions for the review procedure. Klukkowski Yuri Bogdanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u242	Dear colleagues! Yuri Klukkowski, "Our Ukraine." We've created a very interesting precedent, from one subject we've adopted two bills in the first reading. So it seems to me that logic requires one of the two of us: either we're adopting this little bill as a whole and then we're solving the question and we're still not looking at it in that law; or then we didn't have to adopt it in the first reading, because this question is already adopted in the first reading. So I would suggest that we get out of the fact that once we've supported it in the first reading, let's vote in general, let's take this problem down a little, let's work on others.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u243	I am voting on the whole bill amending the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Justice. [[Registration number 5144]] I'd like to make a statement. [[14:06:56]] For 202 The decision is not taken. Please make a proposal for further work. National MP Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u244	Dear colleagues, there is a proposal for a reduced procedure for the second reading to prepare, because the bill is small, I think we can look at it quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u245	Dear colleagues, we have a certain coalition here because there was a proposal to vote in this and the vote took place. In this regard, I have an offer. Please write about whether we are going to solve the procedural issue of cancelling this vote, sending it to prepare for the second reading, or going back to the adoption as a whole. Please, what will be the offer? Please sign in. Miroshenko Yuri Romanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u246	Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear colleagues, this law can be passed in general because we are conceptually defined. And in fact, now that we're back, I'm actually suggesting we go back to voting and vote it out in general. Because this will remove the specific problem discussed in this bill. If all of a sudden we want to adjust something, we have the first reading of the presidential law -- that's where we can fix it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-04-m0.u247	Is there no objection? I am voting on a motion to return to a decision on the adoption of this bill as a whole. I'd like to make a statement. [[14:09:22]] For 283 We're back. I would like to vote on the whole draft law amending the Code of Administrative Justice of Ukraine. Registration number 5144. Please make up your mind. [[14:09:49]] For 292 Decision taken. The law has been passed in general. [[B in m in s a l in]] The morning plenary session is closed. The next morning's plenary meeting will begin tomorrow at 10 a.m. Good luck.
