ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:04]] The 410 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the Ukrainian National Deputies: Gordijenka Sergei Volodymirovich and Trelyaków Alexander Yuriovich. [[Applause]] We welcome our colleagues and wish them all the best. Dear colleagues, I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in plenary meetings on March 19, 2009. 44 questions on the agenda were considered: 12 laws and 11 decrees were passed, 12 bills were adopted in the first reading on the basis, and 1 bill was sent for re-reading, 2 bills were returned for re-reading, 5 bills and 2 draft regulations were rejected, and 2 laws were rejected as a result of consideration of the President's proposals. Honorable National Deputies, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules, are set aside on Friday for the purpose of making inquiries. I'm announcing requests from Ukrainian national deputies. Vladimir DANILENA to the President of Ukraine for the untimely assignment of the honorary title "Mother Heroin" to women who gave birth to five or more children and raised them until they were eight years old in the Suma region. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. Please vote. [[10:02:57]] For 283 Request supported. I'm betting on the vote to send a request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:03:16]] For 280 Decision taken. Igor ŠAROV to the President of Ukraine on the implementation of Presidential decrees on measures to address the housing problem of investors who have suffered damage as a result of the activities of the Elita Centre Group. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:03:50]] For 298 Request supported. I'm betting on the vote to send a request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:04:09]] For 304 Decision taken. BACHTE’S aunts to the President of Ukraine on the catastrophic health financing situation in 2009. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:04:35]] For 231 Request supported. I'm betting on the vote to send a request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[10:04:54]] For 223 The decision is not taken. MICHELLA AND MICHAEL SHERSHUNA to the President of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to obtain the full amount of funds from all banks of Ukraine for persons who have suffered as a result of the Chernobyl disaster. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:05:32]] For 264 Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:05:53]] For 249 Decision taken. Victor SINCHENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the financing of the gasification of the village of Korjakowka in the region of Kijiv. Mr. Vladimir DANILEN to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for assistance in the restoration of the business The Open Shareholder Society "Spetzlismash" of Lubna Poltava County. Vladimir LEMZI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine concerning the construction of the main gas pipeline, Kalanczak village of Suvorov, Kilia. [[Odessa Region]] Vladimir SIVKOVIĆA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council, the Attorney-General, the Head of the Kiev City State Administration on the threat of national security in connection with the construction, together with the U.S. government, of a biological laboratory in Kiev. Váchaslav KOVALJA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Kyiv City’s head, on a situation involving the functioning of schools of aesthetic education in Ukraine and especially in Kiev. Mr. Eduard PRUTNIK to the Prime Minister, Head of the National Bank of Ukraine, Minister of Agriculture Policy, Head of the State Chamber of Alcohol and Alcoholic Industry, Temporary Administrator of the Commercial Bank "Westinkombank", Attorney General, Director General of the Czernigian Regional Association of the Spirit Industry, on the verification of the facts presented in the address of the State-owned company "Shabalin alcohol plant" of the region of Chernigiv and on the use of appropriate measures. Mr. Mikoli Komara to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-predictability of Ukraine's 2009 budget for medical equipment. Mr. Komara to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the answer to a question that was essentially raised. MICHELLE RUDEN to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the catastrophic environmental situation surrounding the illegal construction of the electrical grain complex in the settlements of Pechanovka and Himritch of the Romanov region of the Žitomir region. MIKOLI TOMENKA to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for the gathering of a congregation for the use of the radio frequency of Ukraine’s national television channels, which are used to distribute television programs that broadcast radio, radio, and television. Mr Michael CHETOVA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about the tax compensation for the added value of the Open Shareholder Society "Sumihimprom". Mr. ZARUBINSKI'S Oleg to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the answer to the question of the content of the question raised in the parliamentary question about the wrong conduct of the Ukrainian Ministry of Family, Youth and Sports in the matter of granting the status of the National Federation. Alexander POPOVA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the timely and unearmarked deletion of article 2 of the Ukrainian Law on Export Fees for Seeds of Certain Oil Crops, of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws to Prevent the Negative Effects of the World Financial Crisis on the Development of an Agro-Industry Complex. Paul SILCHANA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the release of the historical and memorial series "The Book of the Memories of Ukraine". GREENEVECH to the Prime Minister on the application of certain provisions of the Ukrainian Law on Value Added Tax. Jaroslav SUCHI to the Prime Minister for setting an optimum tariff on electricity for the Open Shareholders Association "Restricted Production Aluminium Combine". Group of National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on human resources policy at the Ministry of Environmental Protection of Ukraine and the non-professional collapse of the public authority. [[Tolstoy, Glasunova, Dejcha]] Jury CARMAZINA to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the DPA on the verification of the facts of inappropriate reaction by the State tax administration to the parliamentary appeal No.73 of 24 February 2009 by means of misleading and misinformation to the Head of State Tax Administration of Ukraine and the National Deputy of Ukraine by officials of the State Tax Administration in the Côte d'Ivoire area, the use of appropriate measures to respond to the said request, the enforcement of the current tax legislation of Ukraine by the officials of the State Tax Administration in respect of compensation for the added value and the bringing of the guilty persons to justice. MICHELLA AND MICHAEL SHERSHUNA to the Prime Minister, Head of the National Bank, on the use of urgent measures to obtain the full amount of funds from all banks of Ukraine for persons affected by the Chernobyl disaster. KONOVALJA’S Valery to the Head of the Court of Auditors for the verification of the Ukrainian Ministry of Defence on the use and management of immovable property. Vassil KRAVČUKA to the head of the Ukrainian Security Service for the verification of the legality of actions taken by Ukrainian security officers. THE Minister of Interior, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the illegal granting of permission by officials of the Kyiv City Council Executive Body to conduct construction work on the street of Polovy, 12 in Kiev, which threatens public security, the life and health of residents of nearby homes. [[Kiev City Administration]] Victorio DEMJANČUK to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Head of the DPA, Head of the State Committee on Technical Regulation and Consumer Policy, Attorney-General for the improper examination of parliamentary requests for corruption to promote the activities of a number of enterprises by the Chief of Line Management at the South-West Railway Authority of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the railway transport of Paul Güzola. Victoria DEMJANČUK to the Minister of Justice, the Attorney General, for ignoring the General Prosecutor’s Office and the Ministry of Justice of parliamentary appeals and questions about failure to execute a court decision for almost three months, three years. GREGORY TO THE HEAD OF THE B.S.A. Regarding the verification of information on the placement of Ukraine's gold stock in the Bank of the United States of America's Lemon Brazers. Edouard PRUTNIK to Minister of Housing and Utilities, Minister of Transport and Communications, First Deputy Minister of Finance, Head of the State Road Service, Head of the Chernobyl District Council, Chief of Roads Service in Chernigiv Region, Chief of Finance for the Administration of the Chernigian District Government Administration for the repair of water supply networks in the villages of Vishnika and Bužanka, Ribotin-Sohachi, construction of the asphalt road in the province of Koropsk, Chernigiv region and the liquidation of the water accident in the village of Velika Zagorovka Borznian district, Chernigiv region. YEUGENA GOOD TO THE Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Attorney - General of Ukraine, the Head of the Zitomir District Administration regarding the raid on the Malinian Consumer Society. Ms Eugene KARJKOVA to the Head of the National Tax Administration of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine, on the failure to comply with the rules of the current legislation of Ukraine by the administration of the Society with limited liability of the “Southern” market. Mr. Ivan DENKOVIĆA to the Minister for Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the improper response of the supervisory and law enforcement authorities to the State's problems of damage in a particularly large way, through the misuse of financial and economic activities by the management of the Closed Association of Lvivsystemenergo and the State Enterprise of Lvivcarbon. Katerina VASCHUK to the minister of justice of Ukraine regarding the reasons and circumstances for refusing to grant the right to an inheritance on the land of a resident of the village of Koropuz of the City of Lviv district of Daria Boseljak and providing appropriate clarifications in order to prevent violations of the rights of citizens in the future. Mr. Mikoli KATERINCHUKA to the Minister for Regional Development and Construction of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the verification of the legality of the actions of officials of the State Architectural and Construction Inspection. Mr. Mikoli Shershun to the Minister of Agriculture Policy of Ukraine for Dissatisfaction with the response of the Ministry of Agriculture Policy of Ukraine to the request of a group of national deputies regarding the repayment of the debt to the State Enterprise of the Tuchinsk Research Area. Mr. Mikoli Sherschun to the Head of the Supreme Economic Court for delaying the ruling of the Ternopil District Prosecutor's Office of Ternopol on the denial of the illegal inclusion of lyclinics in the statutory fund of the Open Shares Association of the Ternopil Combin Factory. OXANA BILOSIR to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine on the application of measures to accelerate the opening of additional entry points at the Ukrainian-Polish border. ELEGA JERPIAN to the Minister for Regional Development and Construction of Ukraine, Head of the National Bank of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine for the violation of the rights of trustees of the Fund for Construction Financing during the construction and implementation of construction projects and the transfer to the trustee of built buildings by the builder and manager of the Fund for Construction Financing. Alexander ŠEPELEVA to the minister of Ukraine in matters of family, youth, and sports regarding the use of measures to prevent the closure of children’s sports schools in Kiev. Roman ZABZALJECK to the Head of the NBA regarding the failure to respond to a parliamentary appeal regarding possible misconduct by the management of the New Bus Department of the Raiffeisen Bank Awal Regional Directorate of Mikolayev. Mr. Mayor of Ukraine's Interior Minister for the immediate cessation of the illegal actions of the Head of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Dnipropetrov region of the Anatholia Naumenk militia on the release of the employees. GREENEVECH to the Head of the State Commission for the Regulation of the Financial Services Markets of Ukraine for the Protection of the Rights of Members of the Credit Association "Ukraine". Sergija ŠEVČUKA to the Minister of Transport and Liaison regarding the establishment of the Lokachinska Autodor branch of "Horokhivatodor" in the Voline region of the Lokachinsko Autodor branch. Stepan DAVIMIKI to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine on compensation for the transport of citizens of the category of benefits by the Directorate of Labour and Social Protection of the population of the Sokali District State Administration of the Lviv Region of the Automobile Society with limited responsibility for Auto-Line. LITHUANIA’S Jury to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine regarding the restructuring of the city of Kirovograd of the city’s structural unit of the Ukrainian Ministry of Internal Affairs in the Kirovograd region. LITHUANIA’S Jury to the Head of the Court of Auditors for the purpose of verifying compliance with the scientific and manufacturing community “Fort” of the Ministry of Science and Technology of Ukraine’s requirements for the provision for the purchase of state goods, jobs and services for public funds for the purchase of raw materials for the production of registration plates for transport vehicles. Jaroslav SOHO to the Head of the Secretariat of the President of Ukraine, Head of the Supreme Economic Court on the corruption of the Head of the Zaporozian Court of Appeal, John Fedorov. Groups of national deputies to the minister of justice of Ukraine regarding the clarification of the misuse of vehicle locking devices in the event of violations by owners of parking rules. [[BLISTER, FIVE, AND OTHERS]] Mr. Andrija PORTNOVA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the renewal of the criminal investigation into the beating of Eugene Reddenek, a member of the Ukrainian Department of State Protection. VALERIA CONANOVA to the Attorney-General on the legal evaluation of the activities of officials of the Ministry of Defence, the Ukrainian Security Service, the State-owned company Ukrespecexport. Valérie PRIVATE to the Attorney-General on the criminal offence of illegal possession of land and municipal property by the Head of the Kyiv City Administration, Leonid Czernovecki, and his deputies on the basis of statements made by him in the media by the Head of the Secretariat of the President of Ukraine. Mr. Vladimir PILIPENK to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the numerous abuses of power and violations of current legislation by Mr. Eugene Redonenko during his term of office as Head of the Zaporez District State Administration. Vladimir MATWEYEVA to the Attorney-General on the inaction of the authorities of the Public Prosecutor's Office for five years to protect the interests of the State and Ukrainian citizens in investigating the illegal privatisation of the State Shareholder's Shareholder's Shareholder's Shareholder's Company Black Sea Shipbuilding Plant's illegal transfer of ownership rights in the absence of investment commitments, non-motivated changes in investment liabilities, non-payment of wages of ten million dollars and deductions to the Ukrainian Pension Fund of more than thirty million dollars. Vladimir PHILIPPEN to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal use of arms and the presumptuous conduct of Eugene Reddenek in his role as the guardian of Victor Yashchenk. Vladimir SQUBENK to the Attorney General on the criminal case of illegal possession of budgetary resources in work in the Hersonian region on the disposal of unfit and banned chemical plant protection products. Vladimir JAVORISKI to the Attorney General on unlawful removal from the National Federation of Light Athletics of Ukraine and transmission to the Church of Pastor Sandy Adelaide "A Embassy of the Blessed Kingdom of God for All Nations" by the head of the Kyiv City Administration Leonid Chernevski Light Athletic Manage of the Kyiv City School of Higher Sports, located at: Kiev City, Titina Street, 18. Eugene KYRILČUKA to the Attorney General on the illegal annual delay in directing the National Liaison Board on the enforcement of the decision of the courts to reinstate the work of an illegally dismissed member of the Peter Semireus commission. Eugene KARJKOVA to the Attorney General of Ukraine about the fact that he did not pay the employees of the Open Shareholder Association Presrash. MICHELLE TO THE U.S. Attorney General regarding the insufficient investigation into the crime of Roman Bogota’s death in the city of Truscavet Lvivsk. Caterina VASCHUK to the Attorney-General for the verification of the termination of the work of the Private Shareholders Association of the Plain Foundry and for the proper legal assessment of the actions of those who violated Ukrainian legislation have caused the economy enormous losses. MICHELLE TOMMEN to the Attorney General on the illegality of the actions of the city’s Kiev authorities, which led to the destruction of the name of Vasil Stus. Ms. Alexander Goluba to the Attorney General on the failure to make legal decisions on the materials of the audit of the General Audit Office on the use of the budget allocated to the All-Ukrainian Society of Education for the creation of the TV "Maestro Berezowski". Jurya TREUGUBOVA to the Attorney General about the situation surrounding the company The Open Association of the Chernigiv Radio Society. Ms Gordijenka to the Attorney-General of Ukraine, Head of the Poltava District State Administration on the need for a thorough study of the legality of the actions of the Lubenski city head Vasil Korjak and the Luben City Council on the reform of the organizations that provide water and water supply for the city, to prevent possible negative consequences for the population that may arise as a result of the actions of the city authorities, the protection of property rights of the territorial community and labour rights of employees of the municipal utility company Lubnivokal. SERGEANT to the Attorney General on violations of the law in force during the holding of the extraordinary election of the head of the County Village Council of the Lugansk Region. Mr. Andria PAVLOWS to the Head of the Service for Minors of the Kyiv City State Administration for the provision of information and statistics on the activities of the Service for Children of the Kyiv City State Administration. Mr. Vladimir STRETOVIĆA to the Deputy Attorney-General of Kiev on the verification of violations of State building standards during the construction of the Alliance-Centre limited liability office-trade centre on the street of Bogdan Hmelnitsky, 7 in Kiev. Alexander ŠEPELEVA to Kiev City’s head on the urgent solution to the problem of providing sufficient fuel for ambulances in Kiev. Alexia PLOTNIKOVA to the Kiev City Head for dissatisfaction with the parliamentary request for replacement of elevators in House 102 on Red Army Street in Kiev. Roman ZABZALJAK to the Head of the Nicholas District State Administration for failure to respond to a parliamentary appeal regarding the unlawful actions of unknown persons who tried to acquire the utility property of the Domanov Village Council. Jury CARMAZINA to the Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine, the prosecutor of Kiev City, for the purpose of examining the gross violation of the constitutional rights of members of the territorial community of Kiev, the illegal occupation of the land, the seizure by the Autostradamus by way of the refusal of the judiciary and the Kiev City Council of decisions in favour of the Society with limited responsibility of Company Metropolis, the gross violation of the Constitution and the effective legislation of Ukraine by officials of the Society with limited responsibility of Company Metropolis for the previous conspiracy of officials of the local self-government bodies, internal affairs bodies and the public execution service of the city of Kiev, which caused significant damage to the Dniprovsky Corporation and its members' rights, the abuse of services of the designated officials, the use of civil service and the prosecution of civil proceedings, and the prosecution of cases of civil offences. So, respectable colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] All right, one minute, don't scream. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Representatives of the faction of the Party of the Regions have been asked to vote on the request, a parliamentary request to the President - please pay attention! – to the President of Ukraine on the catastrophic state of financial security of the health system. This is a question from our colleague, Tetjana, the head of the committee. Ladies and gentlemen, your attention. I am voting for the return to the question of the MP's request for Ukrainian Deputy Tetjana Bachtevo, please vote. [[10:26:35]] For 347 We're back on request. There is now a motion to support the request to send it to the President of Ukraine. Asking for help. [[10:27:05]] For 246 We supported the request. I now put to the vote the request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[10:27:26]] For 235 Request supported. Thus, honourable colleagues, 104 requests were made, including four requests addressed to the President of Ukraine. At the same time, I appeal to you, your honorary colleagues, when preparing your requests, to address them first to the heads of the relevant institutions, because we will soon begin to ask the members of the ranks. If we are asking the Kyiv City State Administration, there must be a request. And we're already going to the department heads, and the answer is going to be the same. That's the first one. And the second. I would ask the apparatus to generalize the results of the response to parliamentary queries and to the next advisory board to prepare the relevant information so that we can see the results of the work in this direction. Dear colleagues, the schedule for Friday is given to you. Now I'm asking the faction leaders to exchange their thoughts in one minute, beyond how there are differences here so that we can work productively. Please sign up for one minute to express your attitude toward the schedule of meetings. One minute, factions. Just put your name on the board. The faction of Yulia Timoshenko, National Deputy of Scybinetsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u2	Please give the word to Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u3	Ivan Kirilenko microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u4	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Vladimir Mikhailovich, I address you personally. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the faction suggests that the first issue of the agenda today should not be considered, to be removed on the basis of a selective approach to dealing with the personnel issues of the Central Electoral Commission. We've got another CBC representative who's long gone over the edge of the right age. [[I won't call it a job or a last name.]] The selective approach leads to some other reflections, the politicization of the Central Electoral Commission's work again. The faction strongly insists that this issue be removed if all those involved in the age price are to be brought into the session hall. As we consider the following questions, we would also like to discuss them with the procedure. For the first question we ask, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to remove the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, I'm asking you on all grounds not to discuss each and every one of us. Please, Ivan Grigorovich, on schedule for today.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u6	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, on the second question. We've discussed the factions in detail, we know this situation around the Interim Investigation Commission report, and we know this situation. We have a report prepared by the chairman of the commission and four signatures or five signatures, but the composition of the 11 - person commission is a report signed by six members of the commission. So to view them as equivalent, the faction considers them impossible. We understand that the word should be given both to one side and to the other, as with special thought. But we're saying that there's a report that has six signatures. So, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, 10 minutes each.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u7	I understand the offer, Ivan Grigorovich, understood the offer, thank you for taking the time. Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u8	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, honourable colleagues, as a whole, the "Block of Lithuania" faction understands and approves today's agenda, and on the other hand, we understand very well that the issue that is not the first to be addressed with regard to the report of the Interim Investigation Commission on the investigation of the state of functioning of the Ukrainian gas transport system will take up quite a lot of time, much more than there were suggestions for different reports and obviously this will balance the situation. So I'd like to ask, Vladimir Mikhailovich, a question. Today we have a 1300 session, and then there's a Difference, so that we don't have a left-hand portion of the time to investigate, or more precisely the information, on the committee, and the day-to-day issues will go on and on and on and on. I ask that we vote in favour of continuing today's session to exhaust the agenda today. Once again, this is an objective moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u9	Thank you. Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u10	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, Vladimir Mikhailovich! There is no question and no doubt in the order of the day, one should consider. I see that there will be more problems with the report of the Interim Investigation Commission. I support the suggestion that we should consider today. There is an alternative – according to the Rules she has the right to speak. Reported to the commission head, alternatively we have to make a decision because, unfortunately, we are doing this report to the TSC. He was very, very politicized. We listen almost every Friday, and no results. So let us, despite the fact that some want to consider other questions, be sure to consider this account, listen to all sides. All sides. And another one, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Let's still give up the practice of breaking the Rules, because I've been looking for and I haven't found a paragraph.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u11	It's a chance to finish the thought.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u12	Which article allows us to go back to previously unsupported issues. We abuse that very much. Let's not do that.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u13	Thank you. Valérie Konovaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u14	Valerius Konovaluk, faction of the Party of the Regions. Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues! Tomorrow it's 100 days since the new coalition was formed, the government is working. We really see wanted in order of the day with regard to overcoming the economic financial crisis. Regrettably, such matters are very easy to deal with. It is a pleasure that the President of Ukraine said yesterday that he would no longer block the adoption of anti-crisis laws, and that is a joy. Vladimir Mihajlovich, I want you to inform the Supreme Council about the issue and proposals that you have directed to the President of Ukraine, the Prime Minister, to meet today to discuss the whole difficult situation of the country's social economy. How the understanding of senior officials today is based on the principles of Ukraine’s national interests. What to look forward to for the citizens of Ukraine before the political events that today provoke and at the protests of the people? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u15	Yuri Carmazin, faction. Please be sure to sign up.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u16	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, honourable members of the people, after studying today's meeting plan, concludes that he is in violation of the Rules and the Constitution. What do I mean? First, attention has already been paid to the selectivity of CBC approaches. I would like to point out and, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to your attention, I appeal that, contrary to article 126 of the Constitution of Ukraine, we have so far held the post of head of the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine, Mr. Demchenko, who is over 66 years of age. And the Constitution states that the reason is that a judge has been released for 65 years. And the appropriate decision, which is the author of both myself and the national MP Sobolev, and others, is not brought to the fore. Now for breaking the Rules. Vladimir Mikhailovich, we have two reports from the Temporary Investigation Commission. One was signed by seven people, one.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u17	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u18	Thank you. Obviously, 7 and 3 can't be. Obviously, the majority should be adopted as stipulated in the law today and then let them have a separate opinion and so forth. Well, I want to see one report. I'm reading two reports, and now I'm reading, and it's insane that we're going to be doing it again today. We have to decide once and for all whether or not we follow the gas issue we have a special rule, you know, it can't be that way, there are 7 members, and there are 3.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u19	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u20	Otherwise we'll have it then.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u21	Thank you. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? We exchanged thoughts on the organization of our work today. Now, on the proposals that have been made, the first proposal is not to consider today the draft decision on discharge as a member of the Central Electoral Commission. If there is no insistence in the Supreme Council of Ukraine that we vote, let's postpone consideration of this issue on one condition that we entrust the committee concerned, study the age values of the Central Electoral Commission and make a decision at the next meeting. Second, it's about. Please note, with regard to the Temporary Special Commission, I will speak briefly: from a gas issue. Dear colleagues! It was within the commission that a corresponding division took place among the members of the commission. We agreed with you on Monday that there would be a meeting of the Temporary Special Commission, so that all the members of the TSC would come to this meeting and express their position on the organization of the work of the Commission, on the basis of what we are going out to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Regrettably, I have to say that despite the agreement on the Conciliation Council, despite the assurance of the leaders and representatives of the faction that everyone would participate in the work of this commission that I was conducting, there were only five representatives. But you and I have decided that we need to consider this and close it. In view of the fact that we have essentially two reports, two draft decrees, and the draft decrees, it will be easier for us to consider them in the order of registration. As far as the reports are concerned, let us proceed in this way, and I now propose this proposal in accordance with Rule 33 of Article 32, paragraph 3, where the presiding officer proposes a Rules of Procedure for any matter to be dealt with, I propose a solution that would appease the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The question is usually asked for at least 10 minutes. So I propose this way of giving the reporter, the head of the TSC, 10 minutes to report, 5 minutes to answer the question. For part two, 10 and 5, because we don't have an alternative, because we don't have a majority decision. I want to say again, calm down, dear colleagues, there's no alternative thought, there's a division. So give it this way, ten and five, ten and five, three minutes from the faction and the decision - making process. No warning? I put to the vote a proposal for such a rule of procedure: ten reports, five questions-answers, ten questions-five minutes, 15 minutes, statements from factions in three minutes. [[Let's call it conditional, another report.]] Please vote. [[10:40:03]] For 384 Decision taken. Now about Oleg Zarubinsky's proposal to work until the end of the meeting schedule. So let's just say, dear fellows, we're going to agree that we're going to work where there's no second reading under a reduced procedure, we're not going to try to work more quickly. We have a show at 1:00. I'm voting on this proposal for your consideration of whether we should make a short decision, consider the issue, except for the second reading, the procedure, and the report of the Temporary Special Commission. Please vote. [[10:41:02]] For a hundred and Decision taken. As for Adam Ivanovich’s proposal not to break the rules, not to go back to unsupported issues. The question is absolutely correct, but I would like to ask, honourable colleagues, when we are holding the Conciliation Council, not to agree that we will go back to addressing these issues so that we can clearly establish our position. It's quite obvious that here is my fault, it's going to have to be more clearly put to the vote on this issue. I take that proposal into account in our meeting. As for Yuri Karmazin's proposal regarding the head of the Lord's Court, I ask our appropriate committee on justice to study the matter, make appropriate suggestions. As for the proposals made by Valery Illich Konovaluk for the meetings today. Although I tell you, my fellow Members, in view of the fact that the two factions — the Party of the Regions and the factions of the Communists — are not present in Kiev today, and because the President of Ukraine is today taking part in the events dedicated to the anniversary of John Mazepa's birth, this meeting will not take place today. Although I am convinced that we do not need to have a meeting, we should all gather at the Supreme Council of Ukraine to see how we will live on, and how the country will live on. Dear colleagues! Since you and I have made a compromise decision, we're adjourning the draft discharge order as a member of the Central Electoral Commission. [[Registration number 4181]] We are now moving to the report of the Interim Investigation Commission on the state of play of the Ukrainian gas transport system and the provision of gas to consumers in 2008-2009. The report is the head of the TSK of Bogoslovska Inna Hermanovna. It will be followed by a Pashinski national deputy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u22	Thank you. Good afternoon, dear fellows! Unfortunately, the authorities who hide from their own people for the third time no longer allow society to hear this 50-page report and turn into an alternative report that repeats two thirds of the report that we have signed, but all the paragraphs and paragraphs that deal with incompetent and thieving actions of the active authority have been deleted. So we're giving reasonable evidence that the gas transport system has been operating manually since 2008 under corrupt schemes; that gas contracts signed with Russia are corrupt and bad for Ukraine; that the Ukrainian authorities have actually provoked and blackmailed the Russian side during these gas agreements; that gas prices in gas contracts are killers for Ukraine's economy; that the government's thieves policy has now led to an increase in gas prices for all consumers in Ukraine and that today gas prices have reduced the price of all food products paid in the communal sphere. It's all now the ruling coalition rejects, and it still seems that people live very well, with every day better that prices fall. Dear colleagues! It's just an ostrich policy, you hide your head in the sand, but it's at liberty where you show your own people. Because the policy of authority, which is designed to hide the truth, leads only to the destruction of this authority. The politics that we now see in the hall, when a huge job is done by professionals, specialists who give the truth to society, is hidden by you. The policy under which the U.S. Attorney's Office, the U.S. Attorney's Office, should violate dozens of criminal cases, and you run away from it without even having the courage to face the problems honestly, this policy leads to bankruptcy of power. I would call this report, which we are now not allowed to report, because we agreed on 30 minutes and that would be enough for people to hear the truth, but in 10 minutes it is impossible to report fifty pages, but this report can be called Dostoyevski’s “crime and punishment”. According to this report, we, the members of the Party of the Regions, will send in requests to all the law enforcement agencies and we will monitor the actions of both the Attorney General's Office and the C.O.A. on criminal offences that are set out in this report. We will demand punishment, “crimes without punishment”, respected authority, will be no more. And all those who have brought the land now to poverty will answer to their own people. If you'd given 30 minutes, as it's supposed to be, you'd have heard the report. But you don't want it! I'm telling you, we're going to do everything we can to get the whole Ukrainian community to hear and know this report. We're going to do a huge job distributing these materials to local councils, to community organizations, special agencies to let people know that you've built them in the gas transport system. Today, no change is made for modernization. Today, the breakups in Naftogaza reach eight billion, and you do nothing to cover them. Today the government runs the gas transport system like a pocket office, a thief's office, and you know it, and you're taking part in it, and we're going to put an end to it. As far as Decision is concerned. It's big and it's got very important basic issues that need to be addressed, including us, the Supreme Council, but for this authority, even most of them, it won't be here, because once we get to power, we're going to adopt all the basic important laws that will be able to hand over the thieves who are now running the gas system. And the rest of the first part. I want to tell you that here in your report you're very much praising the gas transport system and you're writing that Ukrattransgas was the heroes that made gas transit possible during the gas war. So I have a question for you, and why are you, the authorities, taking Mr. Marchuk, who is recognized in Ukraine as the best expert in the gas transport system? And instead of this person who knows how to transport and who has provided reverses during the gas war, you put up a boy who's been released on suspicion of huge criminal matters, tax laundering for added value and financial speculation. And we will certainly make a request and investigate on what grounds Mr. Marchuk was forced to sign yesterday's application for the transfer to Naftogaz and on what grounds you put a person who does not even have the expertise to manage Ukraine's gas transport system and this is the day before the World Conference, which will take place in Brussels on Monday, where you should get a tranche, you, the authorities, to modernize the gas transport system. Whom will you present? A boy with no milk left in the main position in the Ukraine's Transgassy? Read the report, reverends! It's about the community. We are confident that today's policy in the gas transport system will lead to virtually bankruptcy of the Naftogaza Ukraine, we see that today a thieving scheme has been made to finance Naftogazu at the expense of the National Bank of Ukraine. You and I need to know that all the gas calculations that were made in December 2008 were made on the basis of the National Bank's issue and the increase in the statutory funds of the Ukreximbank and. What's scariest, the Ukrainian Savings Society, which was forced to issue nothing without a mortgage and without a loan, two credits to Naftogazu Ukraine, and these money were calculated for Russian gas. So Naftogaz Ukraine doesn't work at all today as an economic structure, it doesn't make money, it's a vacuum cleaner that sucks money out of gold reserves or emission money from the National Bank of Ukraine -- it's stealing, it's venerable. And we will not back down until all those responsible will be held accountable. The Prime Minister of Ukraine personally signed an order to the National Bank to release, buy out Kabmin's bonds with nothing to do with money, emissions and these money to pay Naftogaza for gas. Your Honor, at least you understand what you're doing, it's $2 billion. It's just using government tools as your own pocket money to meet your political needs. I am confident that the Supreme Council will approve next week's plenary commission of the new Interim Commission of Inquiry to examine the financial situation and cash volume of the Naftogazu Ukrainian system in 2008-2009. I am confident that thieves will sit on the benches of the defendants and that the judicial system of Ukraine, which is now purchased by the U.S. Attorneys, will find at least a dozen judges who have a conscience and who will not cover the criminal responsibility of those thieves who now, as pocket money, own tens of billions of our people's money with you. The rise in gas prices for citizens, for businesses, is now the most important factor of inflation in Ukraine, i.e. gas contracts that have made our situation in comparison with you significantly worse even since 2008, are harmful to Ukraine and will lead to a new inflationary price hike for our citizens and should be responsible for it. Thank you. Can I ask you a question?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u23	Dear colleagues, please sign up for the question of the Divine Inna Hermanovna. That's how it's recorded. Please put your names on the board. People's Deputy Larin faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u24	Please pass the word to Kiselov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u25	Basil Acid Faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u26	Dear Inna Hermanovna, there have been many talks about removing a gas broker from the Ukrainian gas market. Who, then, is today a society with limited responsibility for Gazpromsbjet, which has been entitled to the realization of 45 per cent of the gas coming into Ukraine? That's one question. Second question. In October 2008, the Prime Ministers: Ukraine - Timoshenko and Putin - the Russian Federation - signed a memorandum that required a phased increase in the price of gas and transit for three years. And in the basic contract, I personally did not see it as a member of the commission. So you can't tell everyone, all of Ukraine, why didn't the Commission find answers to these questions today? And question three. On page 10 of their draft report, it says that 11 billion gas they have taken and are using today.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u27	Thank you. Thanks to the signing of this contract in Moscow, we have received an intermediary in the internal market of Ukraine, which is a 100 per cent subsidiary of Gazproma Ukraine, and which receives the right to sell domestically for Ukrainian industrial enterprises 25 per cent of all imported gas. By converting the import rate of gas into industrial consumption, this volume will now be about 45 per cent of all industrial consumption of Ukraine. It should be pointed out that the mediators previously fought by the government were 50 per cent Ukrainian, with 50 per cent Gazprom, 50 per cent of the Ukrainian side. And this mediator had the right to be controlled by Ukraine and to have dividends. Today, Gazprom is an entirely Russian company and has the ability to control the main best through increased accounts payable for gas default.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u28	Allow me to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u29	and the most productive Ukrainian enterprises. This issue poses a national danger to Ukraine. With regard to gas prices and transit prices. According to inter-law agreements, these prices should have been increased proportionally. This proportion has been violated. And, of course, we are now asking the next question: what is the price for this treachery of national interests paid by our own.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u30	Thank you, Inna Hermanovna. Zabluq, the faction of the Timoshenko Street.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u31	It is quite obvious that this statement is exclusively of an ordered character from Mr. Firthash. It is quite similar in your time when Ukraine lost the Mikolai Agricultural Plant thanks to you. And to continue the question, I'm handing it over to my colleague Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u32	Sobolen. Inna Hermanovna, I have a question that concerns a very specific matter. According to the Law on Temporary Commissions Investigators, I would like to remind you that a national MP who participated in an audit, an audit or other audit, the result of which was the basis for the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry, cannot be part of a temporary commission of inquiry. According to the data, you are the founder of Prudenkos, who in his time with Mr. Voronin, who was both in Naftogaz and in Roskre Energo, made a deal for a million dollars. Tell me how you can.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u33	Allow me to complete the question. Please bet on a fixed term.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u34	Inna Hermanovna, how can you, for ethical reasons, get money from Naftogazu, who went on what are called consulting services, now speak out on this same issue, defending interests both of Frances, and of Voronin, and those with whom you made these deals? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u35	Thank you for asking. As always, BUTT is lying because the events you're talking about now refer to 2003-2004. The audit findings of 2003-2004 have nothing to do with investigating the functioning of the GTS in 2008-2009. In addition, the surprise that caused my professional level in your board members is that for five years I have been working for the State in the country's gas transport system. And that's why I know what's going on right now, and you can't push us anymore. Ladies and gentlemen, what's the difference between the BUTO and the Party of Regions? You're in politics and in the profession, and we're professionals and professionals.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u36	National MP, Pavlovsky, faction of the "Clocus of Yulia Timoshenko", please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u37	Dear colleagues, you know, if objectively, in 10 minutes of emotion and schizo-oedal nonsense of Inna Gebelsivne, I didn't hear any fact, no fact in fact.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u38	I ask my respectable colleagues to be as correct as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u39	Excuse me. I want to say that I am sympathetic to the Party of the Regions, because from within it, according to the task of the Secretary of the President, the corruption group Rosukreenergo, which belongs to Inna Gebelsovna, is decommissioning.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u40	Dear colleagues! I ask you to remain within the limits of human decency!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u41	You know, after what you did with the country. You know how Zvetsky said: "After what this power has done to our country, she must marry us." So here, the reverend BIT, after the turmoil you've led the country to, after the homage that you've made with the style of Ukrainian politics, after the lie that you've filled your own country and nation, you should be ashamed of yourself. But. As my grandmother said, “where a person should be ashamed, something has grown.” I don't know what happened to you there. Ladies and gentlemen! I want to tell you that the way to find an enemy, to smear false, thoughtful information, and to win that, it doesn't work anymore. Society already knows what kind of thieves you are, as you have brought the country to ruin. 87 percent of the country's citizens demand an urgent change of power, and you're here swimming and trying instead of half an hour for a report that's prepared professionally and qualitatively, here to do dog fights again. There will be no such thing!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u42	Thank you. Thank you. Annie Hermanovna, time's up. Thank you. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! I'm addressing all of you. Politics, but there's a limit that can't be crossed. And I want to go to the Lady of theology of Other German for my colleague, our colleague of the National Deputy of Ukraine. Don't go down, please. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! Now Pashinski’s national deputy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u43	Dear friends! Well, I'd still like to try to get a report, not pyrate one or the other. [[B in m in s a l in]] Take your seats, Your Honor. Why don't you take my place? Please, come here. Well, we'll come back anyway. I ask the chairman to give Mr. Dry a word so that he may speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u44	Dear colleagues, please calmly listen to the second alternative report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u45	Point one, I'd like to have a moment of your attention. Do not pay any attention to that respectable consideration. What Mrs. Reporter presented to us could have done. [[B in m in s a l in]] What they presented to us would be, and it wouldn't be so serious if it wasn't for two, if it weren't for two. Please don't interrupt. If it wasn't for the two moments that we're talking about. First, in fact, we are offered two very dangerous things in the walls of Parliament, namely. Parliament is invited to legalize 11 million “Rosukrenergo” cubes, where blacks in white are all written. The second moment, in a so-called report of the previous report of the collapse of transit into Europe, is on our nation. I'm not going to explain the lawsuits, but believe me, all the experts agree in one thing, if, God forbid, such a report, the report will be approved, our state will get a few billion dollars' worth of damage. That's the price of all the words of the previous speaker. First, legalize the gas “Rosukrenerego” at any price, although it is already owned by NAK “Naftogazu” and secondly, to transfer responsibility to our state for the collapse of transit in the first decade of this year. Everything else is no more than a smoke screen. Now with regard to the issue itself, indeed, Ukraine's gas agreements with Russia over the past 15 years deserve to write a novel called War and Peace, or to take, as a minimum, Hollywood blockbuster. Since the year 94, there have been several changes in the form of our cooperation. By 2005, these agreements had intergovernmental status, and each year we agreed on the price of transit and gas, the price of gas. The advantageous conditions were or were not favourable – the question of economists, but I want to pay attention to the main issue: the price of transit and the price of gas in these agreements was linked to each other. Unfortunately, on January 4th 2006, this practice was removed and for the first time in our market under an already inter-corporative agreement between NAK Naftogaz and RAU Gazprom was introduced by such a company as Rosukre Energo. And I want to point out that the transit price was fixed from 1.6 to 2011, and the gas price since 2006 changed annually, changing the management of the Naftogazu NAC annually. For example, in 2007, gas prices were raised equally twice, and transit prices were raised by only 10 cents. Once again, the price of transit was fixed, the price of gas changed. When the Government of Timoshenko asked in 2008 about the transition between Russia and the direct agreement between the Gazprom RAU, when the issue was raised, many numerical agreements were signed in 2008 on the transition to direct relations. An intergovernmental protocol was signed, and the necessary arrangements were reached. In the autumn of last year, the technical groups RAU Gazprom and NAK Naftogazu held all the necessary price signing negotiations. The price was previously accepted in terms of $235 per thousand cubic meters and $1.8 per transit. Sadly, this agreement was not signed. Moreover, the President of the Russian Federation, the Prime Minister of the Russian Federation and the head of the RAO Gazprom stated that when the Ukrainian delegation negotiated the price of $235, 1.8 at the same time “Roskre Energo”, as they stated by the higher authorities, the State offered the price of $280. By 31, unfortunately, the deal had not been signed and the world had seen the consequences. Since January 1, Ukraine has stopped receiving gas, transit gas Ukraine has been transiting and, by the way, international observers and, in principle, the Russian Federation has admitted that the entire volume of the first decade we have been transiting, no claims to Ukraine, no matter what anyone wants, can be here. The ninth number was completely covered with gas supplies, both transit and Ukraine. I want to say that only because NAC Naftogaz had 17 billion cubes attached to underground vaults in the summer, which, by the way, had credit for the bills, there was goods, there was credit, there was credit. That's why we didn't freeze the whole country, and we didn't freeze the whole country, because an unprecedented moment was made when the entire gas transport system was switched to internal consumption and we were able to deliver gas to everyone from the western areas of Ukraine, from underground vaults. Yes, there were really large consumers in the chemical industry, during this period of reduced pressure. But I mean, it's force majeure and it's funny to criticize someone. On January 19 the prime ministers of the two countries renegotiated negotiations in which appropriate arrangements had been reached. Everyone who cares about this, our report has all the lectures, they can read all the formulas themselves. Of course, we were negotiating, our team, in extremely difficult conditions, we were conducting gas-related, in fact, blockades, in a very harsh position of the Russian Federation. And you know the government of the Russian Federation said that the cheaper the 450 dollars the price of gas for Ukraine would be. And yet there's been a compromise, we can criticize it, we can agree with it, but it's been found, and I want to inform everyone that this year our industrial consumers have a $228 gas per year, on the basis of the price formula for this year, on the basis of our stock in underground vaults and on the basis that we are already responsible today, in the third or fourth quarter, because the price for the third or fourth quarter is calculated by the formula in the first, second quarter. The price of gas will be even lower than we predicted. And I want to say that sooner or later, at absolutely transparent predictable prices from RAO, Gazprom had to be moved and, in principle, even this 20 percent discount allowed us not to break our internal market. I would also like to refer to the honourable deputies and say that the activities of the NAK “Naftogazi” are colossal problems. I'd like to touch some of them. You know, no matter what the price of Russian gas goes up, our heatcommunerge gets the most cheap gas in the world, the cheapest gas in the world is 860 bucks. Our population gets, in general, 600 dollars of something. There's no such price anywhere. Trust me. But in the background, just so you know, not this year's payments, and that's actually 2.5 months, that's 4.3 billion, and that's more than 7 billion last year. Today, this Hall will consider the Law on Changes to the Budget on precisely filling these holes in the NAC “Naftogazu” budget, 7 billion dollars. And if there are really responsible people here who call experts, take care of it. Because you know that we're NAC Naftogaz losing colossal resources at the expense of: (a) non-payments, (b) gas is being sold to the heatcommuneer and to the population of the cheaper self-sustainment, in fact. The second question. We need, and our commission in this, we need to urgently develop measures to stimulate the production of gas in Ukraine. Because today, there are so many times when rent payments, such as on land and gas, on the shelf and the open sea, are the same. That can't be, we need to develop a government, of course, and a parliament to support a whole series of legislation to stimulate gas production. There are many issues at NAK Naftogazi and to say that NAK Naftogaz is now functioning as a better enterprise, you cannot. NAK Naftogaz himself, unfortunately, uses two functions. On the one hand, he's an agent of the state on many issues: price regulation, supply and so forth. On the other hand, it's a commercial structure that has to make a profit. Unfortunately, there are many questions. But I would like to say that, despite these clichéd prophecies, the government and the leadership of the NAC “Naphtogasu” have removed the structure, the structure is now functioning normally. There is no current debt for gas. And we're sure with optimism.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u46	Thank you. Sign up for questions. Plotnikov National Deputy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u47	I give you my word, Mrs. Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u48	Dear reporter! I never doubted that Mrs. Yulia Timoshenko had the noblest intentions to go to Moscow and wanted the best for Ukraine. But the result is that I, as an average Ukrainian citizen, don't understand why the price of gas is 179 times the price that Timoshenko brought from Russia to Ukraine. Explain to me how Ukrainian citizens, who don't care who they are today, who they were or who they are, why the price of gas is lower than the price is twice as high. Well, why don't you just give me a simple word so that the people in Ukraine can understand?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u49	Thank you for asking. As a simple citizen, I recommend you look at the accounts if you normally pay for the gas. If you have a connection to any constituency, please look at the accounts that get the heat from the gas, by the way, you ask whether they pay or not. And if you have a business connection, please take a look at the accounts and count the dollar that industrial enterprises pay. The prices of 179, of course, are better than that of 228, which is now up to industry. But don't forget that the Russian Federation said long ago that we would move on to world prices. And the fact that we even ripped this twenty percent discount is also positive. And I'm responsibly saying, dear friends, who find it interesting, of course, that because of the formula that we all criticize, we like to criticize, we're going to have a lower price for gas from quarter four, than $179, and that's world prices. Because. You can't understand, I'll pass you on to your e-mail formula that calculates the price of gas, it's not that hard. It's calculated on the basis of the price of the gazelle and on the mazute, these prices are market prices. I'll show you where to take them so I can count them myself. Not Firtash will count.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u50	The question of Burlakov Paul Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u51	Dear Mr. Pashinsky, before asking you a question, I still want to speak to the voters. We see where our rulers today have come from. As they say in the people, they've reached the pen, and there's nowhere else to go. That's why the team doesn't take it, that's why it doesn't work. But they tell such a beautiful story that they just want to cry. First they put in a transport tax, then they're heroically cancelling it. Then they run into pharmacies, saying that in three days everything will be fine, eventually, the drugs will disappear. They then introduce customs duties, which today heroically cancel and so completely in all positions. Next, the following taxes are proposed to be introduced, then a single tax should be abolished, which is heroic again, and then they say, yes, no, that can't be done. Exactly what happened to the gas. I mean, the contract that's been concluded today, it's simple.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u52	Paul Mikhailovich, ask questions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u53	I'm briefly asking you a question. Mr. Pashinsky, please answer one question. In 2010, the most expensive country of basic price that buys $420 from Russia is Germany, if right, you consider yourself a great specialist. Why, as Ukraine signed the basic price, will it be $450 next year without transit in Ukraine, that is, more expensive than Ukraine is today, no country in Europe is buying gas from Russia, why?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u54	Sergei Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u55	I'm not the greatest specialist, I may be better, but I've already explained to you on a commission, and I'll explain it to you in the Supreme Council Hall. In RAO, Gazprom, the number of contracts, the number of consumers and the formula of each contract, by the way, is a commercial secret, for each country is its own. In the Czech Republic, for example, the price of gas is calculated through coking coal. Somewhere it's calculated by gasoline, somewhere it's accounted for by another mix. I think I'd like to emphasize once again, I can stand it, I've explained to you personally, this year we have the lowest base price at a 20 percent discount. You may wonder if anyone you know in Poland, Romania, Hungary is getting Russian gas and why we are getting it. I'm not going to give you a number, but I want to say responsibly, this year's price, this neighborhood was the lowest we had. I am responsible for saying that in the fourth quarter we will have a price of about $150. I am responsible for saying that in the next quarter, the first quarter of the next year, the price will be about $150 - 180. And this, this is not some kind of prophecy, this is taking the formula and inserting figures that are already known, because you lied about the price of gas.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u56	Complete your answer, please complete. Are you done? Next question of Glazunov Sergey Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u57	I ask you to pass the word to Sukhoma.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u58	Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich, last question.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u59	Dear colleagues, I never got one in 2005-2006, you might say to me and my voters, I'd like to get an answer to the question, who sent Yvchenk and Placzkov to Moscow in the summer of 2005 with a directive to break the most advantageous deal at a price of 48 dollars per thousand cubes of gas, you remember that. Since then, our catastrophic price developments have begun. I emphasize, I don't call any last name, because I don't know, nobody answered me. The second question. I don't know how to explain this hysterically scared reaction of your faction to this report, what you're so panicking about, what I have in my district, and I see payments, the population will pay almost 60 copies per metre per cubic metre. I have a question about where the Ukrainian gas that you talked about so much about in 2006-2007 is going to cost the living room.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u60	There were three questions here and let me answer three, if there's not enough time, please. First. As far as summer 2005 is concerned. Sir, Suhi, please assign your assistants to find the President's decree, which clearly distributes in 2005, who is responsible for the gas sector, and who is going where. Now I answer you. These contracts were signed in 2006 on 4 January in Moscow by Mr. Yvchenk, Mr. Miller, and Mr. Chuichenko of “Rosukre Energo”. Then Mr. Voroninin was prolonged and the price was set at $179 at an actual reduced transit price. That's for you. Mr. Dry, if you bring me a payment where the population will pay 1 grand. 60 meters, as you said, well, I don't know, I'll apologize to you personally, and I'll say I don't understand. There are no such payments as to deceive either yourself or me. What other question? There are no such payments. This is Ukrainian gas, Ukrainian gas. [[B in m in s a l in]] A thousand six hundred dollars for the population? Bring me a public apology, please. I'll apologize if there's payment for a thousand six hundred bucks.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u61	Thank you, Sergey Volodymyrovich. Sergey Volodymyrovich, thank you, please sit down. We will sign up for discussion in accordance with the rules of procedure that have been voted upon. National MP Mankovsky, please, faction of the Party of the Regions. Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u62	Dear Vladimir Mihajlović, distinguished colleagues, respected TV and radio audiences. I think that in discussing this issue, first of all, it is important to recall why the Supreme Council established the Interim Commission of Inquiry on Gas on 13 January 2009. Just two months ago, when the Party of the Regions initiated the establishment of this commission, millions of people cursed the Ukrainian leadership, and let us agree that the January cold in their apartments was not gas-free, the enterprises stopped, schools and kindergartens closed. These were millions not only in our country, but also in Bulgaria, Romania, Hungary, Czech Republic, Slovakia and other European countries. Billions of dollars are calculated for damage caused by gas shortages to citizens and businesses. The so-called gas war placed a fat cross in Ukraine's prospects of becoming a respected country in Europe, deepening the gap in Russian-Ukrainian relations. One can firmly say that the unprecedented collapse of gas transit to Europe has been the end of hopes for Ukraine's Euro-Perspectives. Today, the Government is doing its best to ensure that the people forget their fear of living for three weeks in January without gas and heat, and that enterprises face the threat of a technogeneous gas-disengagement accident. In an effort to hide the endings, the representatives from BUT and NP deliberately did not attend the meeting of the interim commission of inquiry and tried to disrupt the submission of the public report by any means. And I confirm that. The Cabinet of Ministers did not respond to any request from the TSC. Oilgas and Transgas did not provide half of the information requested. To date, the country does not know what additional agreements have been signed by the gas contract and what agreements have been handed over to our national interests. And I hope, Vladimir Mihajlovich, that you will sign the Law on Temporary Investigators and Special Commissions today, and it will take effect in the future so that those people who behave in this way towards the TSC will be held accountable. In the gas sector, as in the economy as a whole, the authorities have also shown complete professional inadequacy. Manual management, secret transactions, corruption, and the main global increase in prices for the population and industry is the result of irresponsible gas populism. So that you do not speak from this rostrum, come to any business or family. Special cynicism is that Kabmin is fraudulently concealing reliable information from the people. Publications of the fall of a gross national have been discontinued.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u63	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u64	There are no data on the amount of money in the treasury accounts, documents and data on the gas situation are hidden and, as a result, more than 80 per cent of Ukrainian citizens require a change of power. This is the legitimate outcome of a policy based on the deception of the people and irresponsible populism. Power, which fears truth and its own people, has no right to govern the State. The Party requires the responsibility of the authorities and the resignation of the Cabinet of Ministers by the region.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u65	Thank you. People's deputy Volintz. Gudima National Deputy, Timoshenko Yulia Block. Get ready for Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u66	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, these days a donor conference of the European Union countries is taking place in Brussels to address the issue of modernization and investment in the Ukrainian gas transport system. The European Union continues to view Ukraine and its gas transport system as an important element of reliable gas supply in Europe. Europe does not see Ukraine as guilty of halting the Russian gas supply to Europe. Following the conclusion of contracts between Timoshenko and Putin, Ukraine and Russia are no longer using expressions that Ukraine is guilty of halting the gas supply. Today, only the opposition — the Party of the Regions — continues to blame its own state. I'd like to start with the next one. On behalf of the Yulia Timoshenko faction, I would like to thank all the Naknaftogazu and Ukrtransgazu workers that they proved to be highly professional during such a difficult period of crisis, at a time of halting gas supply, both in Europe and in Ukraine, and that they have been able to secure Ukraine's reliable gas supply, and they have not allowed a reduction in the energy, social and environmental situation. The other one. What was the goal of the TSC initiators? Clearly – protection of the interests of “Rosukreenergo”. The commission, headed by the head, tried to explore other things. Why was it that normal productive work took place between the head and the majority of the members of the commission? The commission commissioned the commission to study among many other assignments two things that were ignored by the commission’s head. Firstly, this is the role of “Rosukreenergo” in the collapse of the negotiation process of the New Year's Eve. And secondly, the negative role of Rosukrenerego in the recorded deterioration of the financial situation of NAK Naftogazu in putting Ukraine in an unfavourable position before the negotiations. Sadly, the commission’s chairman refused to carry out the commission’s commission. The head report, you won't find a word about "Rosukreenergo." And the whole of Ukraine already knows after many shows on many talk shows that the role of Rosukreenergo was crucial, that RossUkreenergo fought for its financial and political capabilities in Ukraine. They are.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u67	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u68	They, including with the help of the Ukrainian security forces, were trying to paralyze the Naftogaz NAK, to intimidate, to take away the 11 billion for the sole purpose of destabilizing the situation in Ukraine, to impoverish the people, because it is clear that the price for gas and for the population would be much higher. I propose on behalf of most members of the committee. On the committee. The report proposed by the majority does not contain a word of the humiliation of the Ukrainian State in the report proposed by the head of the commission. I propose to vote in favour of the report of most members of the Interim Investigation Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u69	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u70	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The interim commission of inquiry into the state of functioning of the Ukrainian gas transport system and the provision of gas to consumers in 2008-2009. Have you heard about the state of functioning of the gas transport system? You've heard in the report, and the heads of commissions and alternate comrades are being given here to report. Did you hear anything about consumers? Not a word. It seems to me that the honourable colleagues that, as some commissions work, it's just a demonstration of how they shouldn't work. There can't be any commission that doesn't have to be led by any majority or minority, to discredit the very phenomenon of parliamentary commissions, whether it's investigators or special temporary commissions. [[B in m in s a l in]] Come on, you're not on the show. A commission can't work from day one. From the first day on, he shows his involvement from different angles. What's the point of the commission? To propose to Parliament. Offer proposals to society, designs on the topic of the review and investigation of this commission, on the functioning of the gas transport system and on the consumption of gas by simple consumers in 2008, and we are particularly interested in 2009. Did you hear that? No, from 10 minutes to 9 minutes of bullying, and one minute about ATS. Well, there can't be reports of commissions or alternative reports trying to correct the basic. Or the main ones who blame the alternative show. How many can be organized around this topic of television shows? I think I understand that there are interested people, but that's not the definition and that's not the purpose of a parliamentary commission. I'm just convinced that the commission can't, I insist on this, discredit this important constitutional institution, by which Parliament also works. So I propose that, today, the decision that it will be taken, that it will not be made, that I understand that today there is another TV show on the same issue and that the work of the commission is closed, and that there is no shame in the work of the deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u71	National MP of the Royal Communists, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u72	The distinguished voters, the respected people of Ukraine, unfortunately, were reminded of the work of the commission's parliamentary body of investigation and control and of the early separation of the two disadvantaged business groups. The commission divided into two camps of lobbyists, those who owned the pipe in 2008 and those who took possession of it in 2009. Only the first two days of the Commission's meetings were constructive, after which one part began to dig under RossUkrenergo, which had earned 1.6 billion dollars to the Ukrainian people last year, and the second part was influenced by business noise. At the same time, the profits of billions of dollars from the Russian side went to the country's state budget and, on the part of Ukraine, settled in foreign bank accounts, with one cent to the other. The State of Ukraine has only one action from billions of transactions and the rest from a group of unidentified individuals from the President's environment. If not deepened, there has actually been a redistribution of the greedy piece of Ukraine, the so-called “gas pipe”. The main objective would appear to be to establish full State control over the gas transport system, but on the one hand, an intermediary was selected for the purchase of gas by Gazprom and Naftogaz of Ukraine, RUE, but on the other hand, an intermediary for the sale of gas appeared. Another conclusion. In 2008 and 2009, the main profits go not to the State budget, but to foreign banks, and all the disputes that have arisen between States will be dealt with not in Ukrainian courts, but in some foreign cantons. The Commission has submitted two reports to Parliament today, but as we see the “mafia immortal” in neither report nor in any other report, there are no main, clear, true, impartial conclusions, and conclusions and truths about the role of the President and the Government in breaking the gas negotiations and discrediting the State of Ukraine. Parliamentarians were afraid to tell the story of the feeding grounds and the guarantor's family. The second task of the Commission has not been met with this requirement of a recommendation for full State control of the gas transport system. The Communist faction in Parliament considers the work of the TSC engaged and unsatisfying. I'll give you an example, according to official data for Ukrainian consumers and for Ukrainian purposes, we need 17 billion cubic metres of gas with you, and we're getting 20. On the gas horizon, we have 80-90 bracelets of gas, and how much we're getting kicked out of the oligarchs. In fact, the bourgeois Government and the perverts have put us on a gas needle, and the economy of Ukraine has made us completely dependent, rather than completely destroying the concept of national security. Given the limited regulation, the only conclusion can be drawn is that the capitalist economy itself is flawed, as is the corrupt system of bourgeois rule. It is also useless to seek truths in a bourgeois parliament on the question of looting the Ukrainian people. The only conclusion is to change the system as a whole into socialist, and then the communists will prove what government is. Only such a step will allow a bright capitalist envyer to be removed from Ukraine's body, and in our lexicon, there will be once again beautiful verbs: working, building, building, sowing, flying into space, love.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u73	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u74	And only then will the bandits be in prison, and the workers are in profit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u75	Thank you. From the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense", Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u76	Yuri Carmazin. Party of Protectors of the country “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. Ladies and gentlemen, as I was going to the meeting today, I was hoping that at the end of the day, people would be able to study as a rule, and according to the rules that I have in my hands, it was written that the results of the investigation, the interim commission of inquiry, would be presented in a written report, the entire commission, not its piece of one, larger or smaller. Seven and three are ten, ten divided into two or five, seven is more than five, so that's the decision, everything else is a clown. And let us no longer allow such precedents in the Hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Or let's change the rules and then we'll always have two reports, or we'll have one majority report, and we'll have special thoughts, and there might be a bunch of draft decisions that anyone can come up with, but not on behalf of a commission of inquiry. I've been looking all the time at these reports that we've been given, and where the subject matter is, because the report was supposed to be about the state of operation of the gas transport system and the gas supply of consumers, not about anything else. And we are now being asked to verify the ownership of NAC Naftogaz Ukraine, a state-owned company of transit and natural gas belonging to Rossukrenerego, I do not understand this Ukrainian Parliament. [[AG]] Is it the Parliament of a Swiss Canton? If the Swiss Canton Parliament were to ask questions, that would be understandable. In view of this, I directed to the commission of inquiry the letter that demonstrated, i.e. the trust issued by citizen Fertash, that he authorizes Mr. Boyk Yuri Anatoliyovich to manage all his property, whatever it may be. [[This trust was issued on December 13, 2005]] I asked and I thought, maybe I could hear in answer here today, from this rostrum, and for what it seemed like, and how it was used, and isn't that interesting because it's a member of the Ukrainian Parliament? But we did not hear these answers today. Thank God for the gas issues. Thank God that the gas transport system works today, but we've seen you and the Ukrainian Security Service storming the state system, and in masks that are not provided for by any law and the Constitution of Ukraine, because you can't even, even, blame the action, you don't know who it is. So I suggest we stop the commission once. And stop these dangerous precedents about.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u77	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've finished the discussion. Attention, please. We finished the discussion. Dear colleagues, it's over, the performances are all over. We're done discussing the matter. At the same time, let me say that on December 28th and 29th, the parliamentary delegation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine was in Moscow and we had a meeting with the highest leaders of the Russian Federation. That's right, dear fellows, to your acquaintance. During a meeting with the Prime Minister of Ukraine, it was stated that under the transit tariff of $1.7 per gas, the price could be $250. It is obvious that at this meeting, where representatives of all factions were present, they brought this information to you. Sadly, though, the commission would have to find out why we didn’t get 250 and get 450. And we set up a job to find out about our relationship, not to find out the truth. At the same time, we have two draft regulations, and we have to make sure that this was a final report, because the term of the commission is two months. Now in order to register draft decrees will be put to the vote for adoption as a basis, if one of them is accepted, then we will look to accept them as a determination. No objections? So please pay attention, fellow Members of State! The first is the vote of the Order. May I have your attention, please? We get it in this way, your honors, that we actually have two decisions under the same number. The first decision 4161 is a draft regulation by the head of the TSC. And then to Decree 4161, this is a project signed by six national deputies with seven fixed here. I mean, Inno German! There's seven names and six signatures, so I can read. That's what I said! Therefore, dear fellows! I'm the first to put the vote on the basis of regulation 4161, on the basis. [[authors of Bogoslovska, Burlakov, Kiselov]] Ladies and gentlemen, please identify yourself. [[11:41:39]] For-174 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 173, “Block of Timoshenko” – 1, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”, Communists, “Block of Lithuania” – 0. Now, honourable colleagues, I'm voting on the basis of the draft Order, the authors: Goodima, Korz, Pashinsky, Kzarykov, Stacks, Litwin Yuri, based. Please vote. [[11:42:24]] For 215 The decision is not taken. So, respectable colleagues, the work of the TSC is done, there is no decision, it's been made. Dear colleagues, when we created the Temporary Investigation Commission, paragraph 8 was determined two months from the date of adoption of this Order. The Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted its decree on January 13. So the information from the Supreme Council of Ukraine takes note and thanks to the members of the TSC for the work they did, you've seen the results. Dear colleagues, please note that the draft Ordinance on the establishment of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the situation of violations of the requirements of Ukrainian legislation in the alienation of shares held by state ownership, agricultural engineering shareholders in connection with the operation of VAT "The Leasing Company Ukraineinvest" and the investigation of the circumstances of the bankruptcy of VAT "Herson Combains". If you don't mind, Your Honor, there's a decision on this positive side of our regular committee that we could just take and vote on this document to move on. The committee doesn't mind? I ask only one request, my fellow Members, to delete paragraph three where the definition of the quota principle is out of the way, the faction of the Lithuanian Block is no longer enough people to participate in the commissions. So you don't have to write that the faction representative participates in the commission and thus delete the third paragraph by changing the number to accept the corresponding project. Is there no objection? Pisarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u78	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I wanted us to set an editorial deadline for the commission there for a year, but if we have work to do in this commission year after year, we will soon complete our control work. Let's cut down on this commission, we've been discussing it for three months today, but let's set it up for six months and ask the members of the commission to speed it up faster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u79	Dear colleagues, since the proposal was from the Supreme Council of Ukraine, from the faction, come on, please. Secondly, the Regulatory Committee, I'm going to speak briefly as a committee, I haven't seen any violations, so let them work when they're ready, we'll make a decision and we'll listen to their report. At the same time, I want to say that the Supreme Council is going to work, regardless of the strengths of the next election in June, you know what this is about. [[Applause]] Therefore, honourable colleagues, considering the deletion of paragraph 3 of the draft regulation and the modification of the corresponding numbering, place the vote on the adoption of the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, registration number 4158 as decrees. Please vote. [[11:45:49]] For three hundred Decision taken. Dear colleagues, allow me to provide you with information to the chairman of the committee, Alexander Sergiyovich Efremov, for technical reasons, today's unpublished TSK Act, I will speak briefly, on Saturday it will be published and then it will enter into force. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the return to the review of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2009 and some other laws of Ukraine concerning compensation and the powers of district and district councils. Registration number 4151. Please vote. [[11:47:02]] For 207 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 1, “Timoshenko Yulia Block” – 154, “Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense” – 32, Communists – 0, “Litvina Block” – 1. Please, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u80	Oleg Laszko “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. A bill that the Supreme Council can't include in its consideration and decision-making, I want our voters to know it's a bill. [[No. 4151]] This is a bill submitted by the government to settle the issue of “Naftogaz” so that it can work and that consumers can get gas at lower prices than it is. So the government is offering 7 billion dollars of compensation for Naftogazu in order for it to work and for people to get gas. The second moment is the agrarian fund. Allowing the agrarian fund to sell at premium prices to the peasants at the front of the soybean company. Failure to accept this bill leads to the inability of peasants to obtain fuel at tax prices. And the third question is wages. The issue of district councils, district councils, to regulate this issue in order to take into account the needs of today, namely, the most important issues facing the country today. To keep him working.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u81	Yes, a national MP, a respected colleague, a national deputy of Vyezovsky, I see, after that, someone from a faction, a Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich, or a determination. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u82	National Deputy Volodymyr Vyeziv Deputy Group “For Ukraine”. I would like to give the previous speaker more attention to those bills that he is going to comment on. The bill, and this is expressed in the position of the Scientific and Expert Commission, states that the price rise will take place by two percent for all types of fuel. And you don't have to talk about any cost for a particular category or for a separate entrepreneur in agriculture. You have to call things your names. If we say we want to spend fuel during spring and summer work, let's at least keep it at the same level that we have now for everyone without excluding the producers. Because you can't do that for one field of benefits, but you can do it for the other as long as you get that bread to the bench, it's going to be more expensive than you're going to do. Therefore, this bill should not even be included in the agenda Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u83	Thank you. Mikhailo Chechetov, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u84	Please pass the voice to Hellcat.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u85	Please, People's Chamberlain. Then Peter Zibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u86	Yesterday, colleagues reviewed the Cinema Act and said that cinema was the most important thing for us. The budget is crucial for the country today. And we fully support the budget change aimed at that. In order to strengthen the support of farmers, to change the health, education and budgetary situation. We fully support it. But we're against taxes, we're against a selective solution to this problem. We're just an integrated approach. An integrated approach would not be a 2-3 billion-dollar donation, but would be 10 times more. Therefore, please let us address the issue of budget change in an integrated manner. And we support all directions except one: there is no way to increase the budget by pulling the crumbs and the rest of the money out of our electorate's pockets. That's all you do.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u87	Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, Communist faction Then Zarubinsky will continue to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u88	Thank you. The Communist faction, Peter Cibenko, is the first deputy head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons. I'm sorry, dear colleagues, when I saw today's agenda for today's session and I saw in particular that the agenda was on the question of making changes to the State Budget for Ukraine for 2009, I was happy, I thought there would be a question of strengthening the social protection of the most vulnerable ranks of the population, particularly pensioners, veterans and disabled persons, particularly that we would be dealing with a long-awaited issue of normal payback for the status of children of war, which we will resolve those commitments that we have on the eve of Victory Day to the participants in the fighting. And it turned out, you know, they wanted it as well, and it turned out, as always, "In the garden of the mouth and in Kiev the uncle." So that's what I would call these changes to the budget that are being made today. So what I'd like to say is, are we going to support changes to the budget, but those that relate to people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u89	Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u90	Oleg Zabrubinski, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, dear colleagues, we realize that there is a variety of motivations in voting, in the actions of all our colleagues. Clearly, changes in the budget would want to be complex. Moreover, it would be worth it, and this has been repeatedly said to be a coherent draft of changes both for the President and for the Prime Minister and for Parliament. But it seems to me that when language goes, you can take positive steps and positive things. Which will help specific addressees, and to address them is the clarity of this bill, we need to accept this philosophy. I mean, good things should be motivated, not good things, not good things because they're offered to someone else. I think it's a false philosophy, that it's not patriotic philosophy, it's not the philosophy of people who work for people. Unfortunately, this is clearly a given today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, the decision is not made. Positions declared. Now, if you'll have your attention. Now I'm going to ask another question, which, by the way, passed to us from Thursday, we haven't considered (returning to the draft Real Estate Tax Act), registration number 3533, please vote. [[11:53:59]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. No, that's it. Your Honor, your motives are over. Let's work. All of it. There is no such thing in the Rules of Procedure. Let's work with factions, and, dear colleagues, don't engage in agitation. Dear colleagues, we were about to consider a bill amending the Constitution of Ukraine. [[on the terms of office of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local councils and rural, rural and urban heads]] The committee proposes to postpone consideration of this issue in view of the need to work on it. No objections? Next. Dear colleagues, we were about to consider in our second reading a draft of the Local Law. We were about to consider in our second reading the draft Law on Associations of Local Self-Government Authorities. Registration number 2277. Fellow dignitaries have also found that this law needs to be clarified and reconciled. I would very much ask that this draft law, prepared for second reading, be sent to all -- I emphasize -- local self-government associations, as well as to the Advisory Council on Local Self-Government at the Supreme Council of Ukraine, so that for the next plenary week we have the opportunity to adopt it in the final version. I ask our Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government to take this as an assignment from the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please, Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u92	Thank you. Yuri Klukkowski, "Our Ukraine." Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I completely agree that the bill needs further work. Yet it would be a pity if the work done at that time had been lost in vain. So our proposal is a little different. If we accepted it in the second reading, we didn't accept it in general, and we sent it out for further work to secure the work that was already done, rather than going back to the editor of the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u93	Dear colleagues and respectable Yuri Bogdanovich! I absolutely agree with your offer, but I want to tell you in a responsible manner that 200 votes for this decision will not be taken. I've had consultations since, I suggest, today we don't burn laws, I'd like to support my proposal. Dear colleagues, the draft law is under review. We're supposed to have a break here right now. Dear colleagues, you might agree to such an offer to us. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, one minute. Dear colleagues, so that we can work for one hour now, then move on to different ones. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm putting a motion to the vote, please support that the Supreme Council of Ukraine work until 13 p.m. without interruption so that we can consider the bills set by the schedule for today. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. [[11:57:43]] For 272 Decision taken. Thank you. The bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Regional Development Promotion is being announced for consideration. Registration numbers 3567, 3567-1. Rapporteurs of the Ukrainian National Deputy Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov, First Deputy Minister of Economy Sergei Andriyovich Romanyuk, Co-Rapporteur of the Committee on Economic Policy, Alexy Vitaliyovich Plotnikov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u94	Dear Vladimir Mihajlović, distinguished colleagues, since 1996 in the Territory, for example, the Lugansk region has been pleasantly disposed of by 48 mines, and the liquidation period has been set at 1.5-2 years. Since the year 96, it's been closed since the 48th. In 12 years, there are 39 mines in the closure phase. Tens of thousands of people have left the mines before the official closure and more than 35,000 have been unemployed during the liquidation period. In 72 settlements where mines were shut down, people had no opportunity and no job, since the mine was the only breadwinner. As a result of the closure of the mine by decision of the State, 81 pre-school institutions, 36 schools, were also eliminated, in fact, for zero health care. 27 villages were not supplied with drinking water. From 44 villages, 184 kilometres of water networks requires full replacement. Capital repair requires 328 blacksmiths. 696 kilometres of thermal networks, 1,000 miles [390 km] of road. I just want to stop here so that we can continue to have the same problems in mine closures both in Donetsk and Lvivsk and Rowen. They were created solely as a result of the decisions taken by the State. And justice is that the State must be responsible for their decision. Therefore, I would ask you, dear colleagues, to support the amendment of the bill, which is very clear and includes a list of depressive settlements, territories affected by the State's decisions to close mines. The proposed alternative bill, on behalf of the Government, does not provide any money to address the problem. [[It was made in counterweight and in haste]]
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u95	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u96	Therefore, I would ask you, distinguished colleagues, not to unite them, but to vote in favour of the 3567 version of the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u97	Dear colleagues! Report completed. Now, a report on the second bill, 3567, the first deputy minister of the economy, Romanyuk Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u98	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! First, the bill, which was drafted by the government, was not prepared in haste, and it was adopted by the Supreme Council on 15 June 2007, but because the Supreme Council had drawn up its mandate, the President did not sign the bill. Now, in fact, in 2005, a law was passed to stimulate the development of regions that, in addition to a smaller one, provide for a mechanism for the recognition of administrative and territorial units as depressive. The practice of applying the standards of certain depressed areas has shown that this mechanism is not working. We haven't formally defined any depressed territory in three years, because there are extremely strict criteria under which an area should fall in order to be defined as depressed. The essence of the proposed changes is that the indicators of the development of the territory considered for reprisals are not compared with the worst indicators, as in the existing law, but with the averages of the corresponding group of administrative units. To this end, the bill proposes to soften the definition of a depressed territory, according to which article 9 is presented in a different edition. The bill also establishes the right of the Government to approve the marginal levels of development of the respective group. This will allow the government's decisions to formalize the definitions that are in the law, which are much higher, much higher, and so on. The proposed changes will enable the mechanism to stimulate the development of depressive areas to be implemented. And please support the draft law as proposed by the Government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u99	Thank you. Alexy Vitaliovich Plotnikov, head of the subcommittee, committee on economic policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u100	Dear Head, honourable national deputies, the Economic Policy Committee at its February 4th meeting discussed these two bills. Bills have been introduced to improve the methodological basis for recognizing and granting depressed areas, which will further be able to receive state aid for socio-economic development and recovery from this depressive state. The refinement of the developmental indicators, by which the areas are depressed, allows to improve the basis for its recognition, including among the regions of the industrial and rural areas of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and other areas that need that attention again. The findings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration are appropriate, both in terms of one bill and another. At its meeting on February 4, 2009, the Committee on Economic Policy decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine draft laws amending the Ukrainian Law on Promoting the Development of the Regions of Ukraine, which were introduced by the People’s Deputy Ephraim and the Cabinet of Ministers, to be adopted on a basis and in a second reading, to merge into a single bill. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, please sign up for the discussion. It's a recording. Please put on board the name of the national MPs who signed up for the discussion. Valery Konovaluk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u102	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Please give the floor to a colleague-deputy Sulkovski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u103	Paul Sulkovsky faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u104	Dear National Deputies! Paul Sulkovsky faction of the Party of the Regions. Equality. You know, we heard two bills today. And it's practically my opinion, and the thought of our faction, and we're asking all the national MPs to take this problem seriously. The problem really exists long ago, and it has to be long ago that such a law is working, but for various political reasons to this day, unfortunately, this law is not adopted. And that's why I think that if we're here today for political reasons now, we can't have one or the other project. So there's a request, as he's actually reported today from both the Cabinet of Ministers, and Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov, I think he's named the MP's project, really developed by the professionals who worked there all their lives, especially in the East, where the mines are, and they understand the problems most. And that's why there's such a request that we now vote in favour of the draft parliamentary law and really then we can take into account proposals that don't foresee this project from the government. [[3567]] And really, it's going to be a compromise and this Law, I'm sure it's going to work for these zones in the near future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u105	People's deputy Wolitz is a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u106	Volínec, Ukrainian faction, Shakhtersk. The law is really necessary and important. The thing is, I am myself from a depressed city where there were 14 mines in Soviet power, four of which are now operating, ten mines already closed. A closed and large sewing factory of 3,000 people has closed down the city's entire production capacity. And the city, let's put it this way, if all the production power that's left is destroyed, the city is destroyed. This is illustrated by the cities in the east of Ukraine, where the whole street of abandoned houses, the same Stahanov, other cities, the same Lugansk Donetsk region. It is therefore necessary to vote in favour of this law and Ukraine's compatriot supports this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u107	Thank you. Yuri Karmazin faction "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u108	Yuri Karmazin Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. Dear National Deputies! In front of me, the two texts of the law are 90 percent identical, the same comas are the same, the same grammatical errors are the same. The difference in only one, the difference in only one, which was reported first, is the paragraph: “Populated items in which coal enterprises have been eliminated since 1996 but have not been completed in full in terms of addressing socio-economic and environmental issues envisaged by appropriate eradication projects”. And at the end of this article, the requirements of parts two and three do not extend to the depressed areas defined in paragraph five, that is, this paragraph. All of it. Everything else, and the point is only one thing, to make changes to article 1 of the concept of depressed territory, to article 9 is all I said and article 10, is after the words “power” to add the “Republic of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea”. I am firmly opposed to this approach to legislation. And I agree with what the Deputy Minister of Economics has said, that if you raise a bill, Law 1185, which is not signed by the President in connection with the late termination of powers, you will see whose authorship and all. In science, it's called plagiarism. I wouldn't want this plagiarism to rise from the rostrum to the level of politics, and unfortunately, there is. I'm forced to talk about it, because one MP is working and processing the great strength of this breed, the quantity, and the other can afford it. So, dear friends, I'd like to adopt a government bill, but I'd like to include justice, but I'd like to include the settlements in the area.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u109	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u110	There are areas where coal companies have been eliminated, and not to record a date since 96, because we have yet to have a population of 90, 91 of which all mine disposal measures have not yet been implemented. And all of these are known, well-known things that were in these regions. So I'd like to adopt a bill like that, and that would be absolutely fair.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u111	Dear colleagues, who will be speaking? Please, Vladimir Bondarenko. You sign into another faction and you'll be fine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u112	Vladimir Bondarenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear friends, obviously everyone, this law is absolutely necessary because it has to regulate the state's actions in areas that we find depressing. And just because the competition has arisen, we can lose it today or not. This is about the fact that the government has actually proposed a ready law that has passed this hall and was by accident through the dissolution of the Supreme Council not signed. But it is this bill that provides a very interesting norm that allows for objective, methodological determination of what a depressed territory is. So the average level of development is defined and all that's below is depressing, all that's above is normal. So this approach, it has to be practiced, regardless of whether it's a mining land or if it's a lost Carpathian village. At the same time, I think we need, by supporting this bill, which the government has submitted, to add to the second reading the positions that apply to mines, because this is a special area and the care of our friends from Donetskina, Luhansk is clear to me and I would like to support them as well. But in the pursuit of being the authors of this law, they can destroy both their own and the government bill. Therefore, we ask for the support of the government and, on the second reading, for the inclusion of what is proposed by Mr. Ephraim. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u113	Dear colleagues, thank you, the discussion is over. I think it is necessary to draw your attention to this, a bill that was prepared by our colleague Alexander Ephraim on 26.12.2008 was introduced three days later by a government bill, and it is clear that we should agree on the position, because now that we take into account the sensitivity and importance of this bill into account, we cannot make the decision proposed by the committee that the two bills of the Supreme Council of Ukraine should be made for production and prepare for a second reading, we must adopt one bill and let us focus on this and forget about the branch of priority in this regard. Therefore, it is now putting to the vote the draft law, registration number 3567 on the amendment of the Ukrainian Act on the Promotion of Regional Development, registration number 3567, I repeat, the author of the Ukrainian National Deputy Alexander Efraemov. [[on the expansion of a group of territories that are found to be depressed and given such status]] Please vote. There's a danger that we won't get the result now. [[12:13:53]] For 217 The decision is not taken. The factions. Dear colleagues, calm down. Now we're going to vote second, and then we're going to come back again, because we have to make a decision if there's no objection. The Party of Regions – 163, I would like to stress, the "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko" – 1, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" – 7, Communist faction – 27, "Clock of Lithuania" – 19. Now, I'm putting it to a vote. Attention, please. – on acceptance as a basis, I have heard about the adoption as a basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Promoting Regional Development, government. [[Registration number 3667-1]] Please vote. [[12:14:51]] For 237 Decision taken. I thank and ask the committee to develop it into a second reading, taking into account the positions laid down in the first bill. The next draft of the Law on Good Conduct for persons authorized to perform functions of state, local self - government. Registration number 2362. Reporter - Head of the Department of Public Service of Ukraine Motrenko Timothy Valentinovich The Coroner is the first deputy head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, Bodnar Olga Borisovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u114	Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies, colleagues! The Cabinet of Ministers presents for consideration in the first reading a draft of the Law on Good Conduct of Persons authorised to perform functions of the State, local self-government. For no one is the secret that corruption in Ukraine is a systemic phenomenon and is perceived by the majority as one of the country’s most serious threats. By ratifying the UN convention against corruption and joining a number of international organizations, Ukraine has undertaken to resolve the issues of the good conduct of the people of the state. The legal basis of countries, members of one such organization, of the Council of Europe Group of States against Corruption shows that the regulations on the conduct of public officials are firmly established at the legislative level. [[GREECE]] Your proposed opinion, honourable national MPs, draft law for the first time defines the concept of “good conduct”, establishes legislative requirements for the conduct of public officials, by which the public appreciates their activity as virtuous, impartial and effective. For the first time at the legislative level, such principles are proposed to be extended to all officials from the President of Ukraine to a member of the district administration or the village council. For the first time, concepts, rules for the prevention and resolution of conflicts of interest in the performance of State functions and local self - rule are defined. For the first time, it is based on the international community’s mechanisms for ensuring the integrity of persons. We are grateful for the suggestions and comments expressed during the discussion, including the Expert Office. I know that there is a question before the 25th article, where the second part seems to forbid national MPs from participating in political activities. But part three of the article says that in some cases it is regulated by laws that regulate the actions of certain officials.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u115	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u116	I'm asking you to support me on the assumption that after we're accepted as a basis, we're ready to work with you on this committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u117	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Committee position. Olga Borisovna Bodnar will publish it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u118	Dear colleagues, honourable chairman, distinguished voters! The Committee on State Building and Local Self - Rule at its meeting on October 1, 2008, reviewed the draft Law on Good Conduct of Persons Authorized to the functions of the State, the authorities of local self - government. According to the reporter, the bill sets out general requirements for the conduct of persons authorized to perform functions of the State and local self - government authorities, setting limits on the use of official status and receiving a gift. In addition, the rules of conduct in cases of conflict of interest are defined by the project’s standards. During the discussion, Ukrainian national MPs agreed with the vast majority of the comments of the Chief Scientific and Expert Directorate and acknowledged the need to reconcile the bill with the draft laws on prevention and anti-corruption principles and to amend certain legislative acts on liability for corruption offences; to exclude from the text certain moral and ethical norms that are essentially decriminal; to regulate in more detail in the bill the principles of action of the Ethics Commission; and to regulate the responsibility of individuals for violating the proposed requirements of the law. [[0876 number]] [[0875 number]] The Supreme Court of Ukraine has made many observations on the conceptual nature of the bill and believes that it needs substantial work. The Committee on Combating Organized Crime, Corruption and the Chief Scientific and Experimental Administration, following the consideration of the bill in the first reading, are proposing to reject it. On the basis of the above, and in support of the anti-corruption orientation of the legislative proposal, the committee concluded that the draft Law on Good Conduct of Persons on First Reading should be adopted on the basis of which it should be entrusted to the members of the committee, as well as inviting all national deputies to work on it. The argument was this: For many years, this bill has waited for its fate. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u119	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? If you have any, please sign in. I'd like you to put on the board the name of the deputies who signed up. Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u120	Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies, the project sets general requirements for good conduct for persons authorized to perform functions of state and local self - government, as well as restrictions on the use of official status and receiving a gift. In addition, the project’s standards define rules of conduct in cases of conflict of interest and some other novels. As a result of the consideration of the bill, we will note the following. A large number of the provisions of the project define the moral standards of conduct of persons authorized to perform the functions of the State, local self-government bodies and are based on or reproduces the standard code of conduct of officials of public authorities and local self-government, the moral code recommended to member States of the Committees of Ministers of the Council of Europe. Note that, on the basis of the model code mentioned above, codes of conduct for civil servants have been adopted in a number of European countries, but the acts mentioned are of a sublegal nature, since article 28 of the Model Code provides for the introduction of the mandate of a minister or director of a public authority or local government. The faction of the Party of the Regions proposes to support this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u121	Vladimir Bondarenko, BUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u122	Vladimir Bondarenko, Timoshenko Yuli Block. Dear friends, the proposed bill certainly carries certain values, particularly a moral-ethic plan, but in my opinion, it has rather serious mixed requirements for all the categories listed there, the unified requirements. I believe that the President of Ukraine, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the head of Parliament are the people who represent the state. Ministers, ambassadors. They have their functions. People's deputies have their functions. Representatives of state administrations have their functions in place. The same is true of local councils. And so when we send them all the same uniform requirements, it could lead to serious violations of the status itself. For example, as a national deputy, me and my colleagues should speak in the media. This is a requirement of the People's Deputy Status Act, and if I do not comply with this requirement, my constituents may present me with such a claim. At the same time, I cannot act impersonally without giving political assessments to the actions or actions of those or other statesmen or other political forces. So if this bill were to be passed without such a graduation without such certain ones, I would say differences for the individual categories of people listed there, those government officials and officials. We can face serious claims and be deprived of, for example, parliamentary status because of political speech. So I would like this bill, which we received today in the Hall, to be examined more deeply on the Committees of the Supreme Council, and perhaps at the first, the re-reading of the draft, then we can go more seriously to it and obviously support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u123	Mikola Shersch, BUT faction. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u124	Thank you. Mikola Shershun, “Block Lithuania”. Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, even reading the name of the law, the name of the bill, I'll tell you what's funny for me, and I want to cry. Most probably it is only in our country that we need to determine it at the legislative level. That persons who have been given authority to perform functions in the Ukrainian State should be virtuous. I want to say that the indignant behavior and actions of officials during the years of clerical power have led people to completely cease to trust the authorities. People have given up, think that only those who have money that can bribe someone will be able to handle their own business. And when I talk to my colleagues, I'd like to ask if, in fact, you can find out that there's only one law that can solve this problem. Do you think that the subjects of good conduct as defined by the second article of this bill will become more decent the next day after taking effect? I don't believe it. It will take decades to restore people’s trust in power. Moreover, we need to start at the very least by changing the value of our nation, so that the growing generation will take the example, not of bandits and bribes in power, but of, indeed, worthy representatives of the state. But if we want such a law to work in our country, so be it. Although the bill itself has certain points that would make it more appropriate to send him out for further work. In particular, part two of article 18 of the project provides that the conflict of interests of a person of good conduct should be reported in writing by the management. Among the subjects, however, despite honest conduct, the task of the President, the Prime Minister, and the Attorney General, who will report the direction of the person. There is more to the question of MPs, and we can call them articles that conflict with each other, so the proposal is given.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u125	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u126	Taking into account what you might call articles that conflict with each other, I suggest that the bill be sent for further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u127	Yuri Karmazin, faction “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u128	Yuri Carmazin. Party of Protectors of the country “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. Dear National Deputies, let's remember, was proposed by the President at first by a code of honour, it was a long time ago, then proposed a code called “the good conduct of persons authorized to perform the functions of the State”, now proposed by such a law. The need for good conduct by persons authorized to perform functions of the State is or is not needed. Obviously, it was needed when the first code was proposed — that is, long ago — was the first. Second, his competition with other laws and whether he is. Yes, there is competition, there is competition with anti-corruption legislation, there is serious competition with these laws. And that's where the anti-corruption law, the anti-corruption law, and the anti-corruption law, laid down a lot of these norms, there's more moral-ethical standards. But how to settle them all today, the more there is a whole package that has been introduced by the president, and is now being considered by the committee on combating organized corruption, crime and corruption under the leadership of Igor Kaletnik, and is now practically ready for that package of bills. I think that even though there are standards here that my honourable colleagues have spoken of, that actually the mouth of MPs is closed through article six, because there is no personal or unfriendly attitude toward any person and personal views or beliefs to express. And the political power, I have to do it, I have to do it. I mean, it's the law that has to be cleaned up, it's damaging the law. You can't shut up about politics. That's understandable. Article 22, 23 there are many questions, but we must be accepted in the first reading and then settled with other laws. That's mine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u129	Dear colleagues! The statement has been completed. Let us sum up the discussion of this bill. It's very obvious that the project is very nice. We have to have romanticism. It's just a matter of detail -- finding good politicians who would do this law, because then we're going to have to adopt another law that needs to go to work, those who need to go. At the same time, let's support it in the first reading so that we can work on it. And our romanticism is to sink into our practical activities. A proposal for a committee to adopt a bill on the good conduct of persons authorized to perform the functions of the State, local self-government bodies is put to the vote. [[Registration number 2362]] Please vote. [[12:30:37]] For-179 The decision is not taken. A motion is made to re-read the Bill on Good Conduct for persons authorized to perform the functions of the State, local governments. Please vote. [[12:31:08]] For 205 The decision is not taken. The law is rejected. It's being announced. The factions, please? Factions: The Party of Regions – 134, “Block of Timoshenko” – 17, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” – 31, Communists – 22, “Block of Lithuania” – 1 – is probably me. Dear colleagues! Can I have your attention, please? Alexander Lavrinovich, on the subject of the law we passed yesterday, we need to make the appropriate clarifications for the signing of the law right now. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u130	Dear colleagues! Yesterday we discussed a bill amending the Code of Administrative Offences and the Criminal Code to increase liability for illegal crops, or illicit poppy cultivation, or cannabis. And during the study, two amendments to this law were voted on and approved, which do not agree with each other. There was a conflict between the two amendments that described in different ways the second part of the 310th article of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. And one of these amendments, which has been voted on, also conflicts with part one of this article and article 148 of the Ukrainian Code of Land. In this connection, the main committee has sent a letter requesting that we remove this disagreement, the Chief Legal Office has proposed an editorial that removes this disagreement. I will, in accordance with the 131st article of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, with your permission, read this proposal so that we can make this part this way. The first part of the second paragraph should read as follows: “Illicit sowing, or illicit cultivation of sleeping poppy, or cannabis by a person who has been convicted of this article, or who has previously committed one of the crimes provided for in articles 307, 309, 311, 317 of this Code, or committed under a previous conspiracy by a group of persons for sale, as well as illegal planting, or illegal cultivation of 500 or more plants or cannabis in 50 or more plants.” This will harmonize with two parts. So if there's no objection, we could support this proposal from the Chief Legal Authority.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u131	Yuri Klukkowski, please! And then we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u132	Thank you. Yuri Klukkowski, "Our Ukraine." Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, first impression, hearing, is all right. But I would like to point out that we have a very unpleasant practice of voting things that we do not see on paper. And to be honest, this practice is dangerous. If I am to vote consciously for this amendment, I would like to read it and make sure that it has removed these problems. So it seems to me that the practice of voting on hearing should be stopped. Place the appropriate tablet and then vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u133	Honorable colleagues, respected colleagues, the right question. The point is that when the law was being drafted to prepare it for signature, there were inconsistencies and, in accordance with article 131 of the Rules, a request for clarification was made. In the absence of time and considering that we will not have a working plenary week, we have not been able to distribute the amendment in writing. This observation is fair, it will be taken into account. At the same time, I ask your honourable colleagues to vote in favour of the amendment, as soon as it has been put to the vote by the First Vice-President of the Supreme Council, Alexander Lavrinovich, please vote. [[12:35:32]] For 354 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the bill is being tabled, sorry, clarification accepted, I'm sorry. The draft Law on Renting and Concession of Centralized Water, Heat and Water Services, which is owned by the municipality, Registration No. 2320, is being announced for consideration. The rapporteur is the deputy head of the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing and Regional Policy Popov Alexander Pavlovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u134	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, the draft law before you today is intended to address the very serious problems that exist today in the housing and utility system. We know the status of the main funds of these enterprises today, as well as in many cases of ineffective governance, including utilities in the country. European experience therefore shows that the way to cooperation between municipalities and a private initiative, private business, can lead to significant positive results in providing the population with normal quality services, including heat and water. However, we must in no way allow our country to lose control of the municipalities over the major funds that are being transferred to the lease or concession, and worse, if this leads to the hidden or other form of privatization of the same facilities. The bill therefore clearly describes the consistency between local authorities and business, starting with the initiative of the bidder and, as it is submitted, the conduct of competitions related to the definition of partners defines the substantive conditions of the contract and ultimately addresses the issue of monitoring compliance with such contractual relations and the possibility of returning those enterprises to municipal property. These are very important moments because, to date, the practice in Ukraine shows that we already have several negative cases that, on the one hand, hinder private business investment in the development of utilities, on the other hand, as I have already said, poses a threat to hidden entanglement.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u135	Please finish, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u136	The Committee, at its meeting, considered the matter and suggested that the draft law should be adopted on first reading and that it should take into account both the comments and additions made by other committees today, as well as the Scientific and Expert Office. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u137	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the discussion. There is a recording of the performance, please, on the table of the names of the national MPs. National Deputy Bondik faction of the Party of the Regions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u138	Dear colleagues! Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Your Honor, your colleagues! There is a need to support this bill because the scientific and scientific authorities have failed to comment on the normative ones. There are some observations about standard-setting techniques, but that doesn't affect the essence of the law. I think our colleague who reported it is especially with the bill's author, National Deputy Rybak, as the former mayors of large cities know the problem. Because, in fact, the local budget is no longer able to cope with this problem of heat supply, electricity, and everything else. And to fill out the local budgets, you know how it goes, because we're here with you. Therefore, I would like to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u139	Dear colleagues! Who is still insisting on the faction, Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u140	Thank you, Martinuk faction Communists. Dear colleagues! If you keep your mind off it, it's like it's the right thing to do. There's no money in the local government, they need heat, they need to provide people, so let's sell what's left, it's gonna be warm. Every one of you understands that this is a lobbyist bill that aims only at business, not at ordinary people. Because if people today can still turn to the local governments that they choose, which of them at least once every 4 or 5 years depend on, and ask why there is no water, why there is no heat, then when we adopt a similar law and give the right to embalm all of this, about the situation when you know that on the balance sheet of objects, on the balance sheet of large enterprises, district centers or in any city, there were all social objects -- clubs, cultural buildings, libraries, heat power plants and so on and so on. Then all these businesses took off these objects that they had become nothing, that is, if there was no owner in the person of the local self - government authorities. So, despite the attractiveness of telling anyone who wants to take and manage this process, believe me, if we give them private hands for rent or concessions the most important means of life for citizens, then they'll freeze and they won't know who to turn to. It's going to be a similar Elite Center. Because now he goes to power and asks why there is no heat or water, and then who does he go to? If he takes it, he won't make it, he'll run abroad. So I ask you not to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u141	Dear colleagues, all who insisted, had one. Vladimir Landik, please. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Landik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u142	Landik, Party of Regions. But by answering Adam Ivanovich, I would like to explain. What we don't sell, don't give, or don't give. It remains public or public property. If all the amendments made by the Legal Division are taken into account, the authority of the local authority, at least the central one, has the right to terminate the treaty and to obtain all this property back in the form of the property in which it was and to be held accountable. That is why it is a matter of compromise, when local power, especially communal but local power, cannot bring it out, especially in times of crisis, and allowing the right to use is not the right to sell. It's a right of use. And this compromise, I think, will give us all the support and help to the local councils. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u143	Dear colleagues, we have a government representative, Prime Minister Alexander Mazurczak. Please. the position of the committee so that the deputies have. From place to place, please make informed decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u144	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that rent is one of the most effective forms of use, it just prohibits privatization and everything that is invested in rent is left to the community. Today, taking into account the financial capacity of our utilities and what the state cannot finance today is exactly one of the possible elements of cost-sharing in our industry. The Ministry had a number of comments on the project, some of them had already been eliminated, because the Supreme Council had decided on it. You should. approval by the Ministry of Contracts and themselves of concession contracts and concession conditions. Other comments that could have been corrected in the course of the second revision, so the Ministry considers it possible in the first reading to adopt a law, to work on it before the second reading, and to leave without these observations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u145	Dear colleagues, we have completed our consideration of the bill. I ask you to support the committee's proposal on acceptance as a basis. This is an element of the NEP that we obviously have to implement today. And those warnings that our colleagues have just been talking about, obviously they should be taken into account in preparing for the second reading. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law on Renting and Concession of Centralized Water and Heating and Water Supply Facilities, which is owned by the municipality, registration number 2320. Please vote. [[12:45:49]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. A motion for re-reading the draft Law on Renting and Concession of Centralized Water, Heating, and Water Management Objects, registered number 2320, is put to the vote. Please vote. [[12:46:23]] For 323 Decision taken. I ask, fellow Members, in preparing for the re-reading of the first reading, that you may turn to such practices, to include signatures from other factions. Because you understand very well that the law is necessary, not because the representative of one faction or another. Let's stop the division. Dear colleagues! I also have the right to express my position. Moving on, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine is being reviewed. [[on the right of rural, rural and urban heads to stop the decision of the Council]] Registration number 2620. Rapporteur of the Ukrainian National Deputy Valérie Volodymyrovich Pisarenko Correspondent of the Committee on State Building and Local Governmental Affairs, Omelchenko Alexander Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u146	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! You are considering a draft law amending article 59 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine. [[on the right of rural, rural, urban head to stop the decision of the village, village, city council]] The drafters are Pisarenko Valerij Volodymyrovich and Filipenko Volodymyr Pilipovich. The law is designed to prevent the manipulation of rural, rural, and urban decisions adopted by the council. The Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine, article 59, contains a rule that allows rural, rural, urban head to stop for five days any decision of the village, village, city council from its adoption on the basis of its observations and make proposals and decisions for reconsideration of the relevant council. The Council is obliged to reconsider its decision within a two - week period. If the Council has rejected the remark and confirmed the previous decision by two thirds of the deputies, the decision will take effect. There is also this standard in another article of the Law on Local Self-Government, article 59. At first glance, the norm is quite useful, but in fact it creates for proper usurpation with the head and the ability to control the Council's activities as a collective body of local self-government. Yes, without wanting a decision to be made by the council, the head may deliberately stop and continue to prevent it from taking effect properly and using the regulations of local councils. Because, as you understand, it is impossible to assemble a next council within two weeks on which such a decision can even be carried out in accordance with the regulations of local councils. This indicates that there is an opportunity in the rural, rural head to stop the unfavourable decisions and to effectively block the activity of local self - government authorities. I want to tell you that this law is really important and necessary for the country today. And we worked very well with the committee, which is why I want to thank the head and the committee members very much. At some point, we substituted the law with those proposals that all members made.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u147	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u148	All the suggestions that the committee members have given us. And this allowed the committee to propose that the law should be voted on as a basis and as a whole. So I ask you to support the authors and the committee's decision to vote on this law as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u149	Alexander Alexandrovich Omelchenko. Please, committee, what is the committee's decision on this matter? Will you support me?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u150	Good afternoon, distinguished Presidium! Good afternoon, fellow MPs! The committee unanimously voted. And I ask you to strengthen your role in the state of local self-government, vote in the first reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u151	Dear colleagues who insist on discussing it, please sign in. If anyone insists, please sign in. It's a recording. Please put the names of the people's deputies on the board. Valerius Pisarenko, please. Vladimir Bondarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u152	Vladimir Bondarenko, Timoshenko Yuli Block. We discussed the matter quite thoroughly at the faction meeting today. It's about a simple thing. The head of the village, village, or city has the legal right not to sign the Council’s decision. But what is the answer? This decision of the council is clearly challenged if it is a decision of a council that is caused by a situation that needs to be resolved, and most deputies have expressed themselves in favour of resolving it in the way it is decided. At the same time, for example, the head has a different opinion and does not sign. We need to create a mechanism for signing, for acquiring the validity of such a decision, and that's why this mechanism is in place, it allows us to vote by two-thirds of the votes of the deputies and lift the taboo for that decision. At the same time, and whoever signs it is not clear yet, so in the first reading, we can accept it and maybe if we go home now and add a few positions, we can accept it as a whole, but, for example, what we've been given, it's not clear who's going to sign it if it's still "consisting" and won't sign it. This is a question for the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u153	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u154	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". I've had to be elected three times to the council: to the district council, to the district council, and I see here one calculation of why the law can't be passed in another. Right in two readings. A colleague who has just spoken, colleague Bondarenko, rightly noted that if this law is still not signed, the mechanism has no answer here in this law. Obviously, it should be assumed that on the same day it is signed either by the head or by the secretary in case he does not sign. And put a dot on it. But this can only be applied to the second reading. Obviously, out of this standard, individual rural, village, city heads have made such a mechanism of abuse against all council members, for the council takes a majority of the votes, and then it is forced to make a decision, if it persists, by two thirds of the votes. Of course, two thirds are hard to find, and so virtually every decision can be stopped. In view of this bill, I wanted to thank my colleague Pisarenko, and my colleague, Philippenka, for bringing it, it's fantastic, but let's go with the committee, and together with the deputies, we'll find a way out of this if it turns out, well, let's say, a head like we have in Kiev right now. He turned out to be one, but yesterday he set up half the city, half the city was built yesterday. And this is not yet an adequate assessment, and I would like the commission, the Kiev investigation commission, to work faster, because we're going to be setting up the whole state soon. And the President's premises will be set up. And nobody even said anything about it. Therefore, it is only in the first reading that we need to provide for the signing mechanism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u155	Thank you. Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u156	Please give the floor to the National Deputy Bondik.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u157	Valerius Bondik, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u158	Dear Mr. Head, honourable colleagues, well, you know, before I vote for this law, I'd like to make a few warnings. Our colleague, Valérie Pisarenko, has even forgotten that the Constitution and the Constitution guarantee the right of local self - government. Local self - government, leading the opinion of citizens, is the guarantee of a local council. And that's why the system of opposites is about that. What the Prosecutor's Office is doing. You see, there's no way to vote for this law, because then the head will monopolize, the head of the village council. And I can give you some examples of the complaints that we have on the committee. When Lividian land is distributed to the local village head of Mamikin on the right-to-left, taking into account, because if there is no opinion of MPs, then there is prosecutorial supervision. And the prosecutor's supervision of the means of reaction -- protest, submission, he can fix this situation. So I propose not to vote in favour of this law. In general, though, it can be supported only in the first reading and in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u159	Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. The proposal for a committee to adopt is based on a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:56:25]] For 218. The decision is not taken. Ladies and gentlemen, if you would like to go back to the 2620 bill, please make up your mind. [[12:56:51]] For the 220. The decision is not taken. Who's in favour of re-reading bill 2620, please vote. Let's do it again. [[12:57:13]] For the 220. The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Dear colleagues, I'm asking the Committee of Alexander Alexandrovich Omelchenka to come back and consider a bill known as 3207-1, which concerns local self-government, and to prepare proposals for perhaps finalizing this bill. It's pretty obvious that there's going to be an opportunity to normalize most of the issues that we're just breaking. So I would like to request the next Conciliation Board to draw up appropriate conclusions and conclusions. Dear colleagues, we are now moving on to the “Various” — that is, the speeches of the national MPs with statements, petitions, queries and messages. Please sign up for the performance. A record is being made of the performances of the National Deputies. Seven national deputies were enrolled and we will work. What can we do about it? Overwrite? Dear colleagues! There I looked at the first part of one computer, recorded more than twenty deputies, so normal. Fifty - three national deputies showed a desire to share in various matters, so we have enough. Please, Paul Silencen faction of the Yuli Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u160	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! An extremely serious signal came from Kiev-Pecher Lavra where the decision of the Kyiv City Council of the oldest temple in the area is passed on to the Moscow Church. But in view of the fact that my presentation touches not only this subject but everyone. After all, there are now 140,000 historical and cultural monuments in Ukraine, 64 reserves, including 26 national and other municipal ones. UNESCO's World Heritage List includes the Sofiyev Council of Kiev, with the architectural assembly, the Kiev-Pecher Lavra, the historical center of Lviv, the geodesic Spirit of Power, and the beech forests of Carpathians. The documents are prepared for eleven more objects. All the monuments must be placed in the state register of the unmovable monuments of Ukraine. During the six years of this register, which was to be created by the Ministry of Culture and Culture, the State Service for National and Cultural Heritage and the Ministry of the Interior has never been created. There is only a list of objects, no monetary valuation of any monument, and this is a mandatory requirement of the law. I mean, it's all priceless in the sense that it's legally worthless. What is the basis for stretching all this out? The exception is only eighteen and one hundred and twenty monuments of Kiev-Pecher Lavra and only because they are leased. Another legal “slide” of lawlessness is the absence in most cases of security contracts to be made by all owners of monuments with the relevant public authorities. During the past three years, it has been known that as many as 20 have been completed and 50 more have been agreed upon at thousands of monuments. For example, without a security contract, the famous National Reserve “Hortica. ” I say steal, grab as much as you can. True, protective facilities sometimes fail to pay and sometimes fail to pay, and this is now paid by many museums to the security services with which the agreements were made. Because in nine areas, along with the capital, there are still no special local authorities for the protection of the historical and cultural heritage. All of this creates criminal uncontrolledness in the preservation of national shrines. And I think I'd like to ask you to consider my statement as a question of the MPs for that matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u161	Koleschenko Vadim Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u162	Dear colleagues, the ghastly specter of the same separatism that the oranges had long confused the whole country and which they had long searched for in the Party of the Regions, had finally reached the Ukrainian regions in full. Ukraine is on the verge of collapse and disintegration thanks to the free government of the current Government of Timoshenko. And one of the main causes of the ongoing crisis is the total looting of local budgets by the Government. This year, up to 85 per cent of local budget revenues are borrowed from the State budget. Local government authorities have not received the 21 billion grevens they needed, essential to ensure the minimum needs of citizens, public finance, transport, education, regional programmes and so on. The funding available is hardly enough for five months to pay the budget. Almost all Ukrainian utilities can be shut down soon. Such exclusions have already taken place in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Kirovograd, Dnepropetrovsk, Hersonsk and other areas. Almost all Ukrainian thermal power plants have now received warnings of their possible disconnection from gas supplies in the near future. And the Government's charge against mayors and business leaders who allegedly owed Naftogaz to NAC is inappropriate. The leaders have become hostages of the situation, which is not their fault, but of the leadership of the country. Thus, the Ukrainian regions, especially the South-East, are at the brink of survival and are facing a real threat to mass civil disobedience. If the Government has thus decided to fight the Party of the Regions, which have a majority in the local councils of the South-East, they are deeply mistaken. The struggle to survive in such conditions and the situation of the choice between the welfare of all citizens and the absurd will of Kiev can really push local governments to decide to take full responsibility in their territories and to ensure minimum standards of living for their citizens. Moreover, citizens themselves require local councils to take urgent action and, for example, in eastern Ukraine, self-defence units are being set up to resist attempts to separate their cities from the heat. Given the threats, we must urgently change the relationship between the regional authorities and Kiev. The regions should be given sufficient autonomy, not on paper, but as a financial opportunity to address their issues. The daily practice of State administration shows that the unitary state model does not work; the financial and economic, cultural, political differences in Ukrainian regions have long led to the logical conclusion that the federal device of the country is needed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u163	National Deputy Bondarenko, followed by Deputy Chechtov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u164	Vladimir Bondarenko, Timoshenko Yuli Block. The situation with the Kyiv authorities today cannot help but be concerned about the Chinese, but also about those who have a bearing on Ukraine, for it is the capital, as well as representatives and leaders of the central authorities. I want to tell you that the city manager who's been misbehaved lately is boasting that he bought a plane, a helicopter, ready to pay one million dollars for taking down Les Long as his deputy and all that. I would like to say that it sings "burning, crying candles." and it does not remind us that the city owes one and a half billion dollars to Naftogaz for gas. I would like to point out that similar events have still occurred, but somehow they went beyond the attention of the superiors. Take at least the famous events around the Elite Centre. For several years now, they have tried to put order in place and give people money or apartments that they paid for. The city authorities have repeatedly promised to do so, but they have done nothing. And we remember the well - known Presidential Order after the February 4 scandal, where the President of Ukraine announced to Czernowetsk Leonid Mikhajlovich, head of the Kyiv City Public Administration the challenge of implementing article 2 of the decree of March 3, 2006. At the same time, six months after the well - known elections, when Leonid Mikhailovich demonstrated his ability to bribe voters, he received the second Order of August 19, 2008, No. 726 on the award of the Ukrainian State Prizes, which was written: To award the Order of Jaroslav the Sage of the Czernovetsk Leonid Mihajlovich. What, the president didn't see what was written on that order? Wisdom, honor, glory. Evidently, such ones are examples of both wisdom and honor and glory. The latest events, when Chernewsky took hundreds, I'd say, wild decisions that are being annulled by both prosecutors and so forth, and then he said he didn't make anything, someone else made it up. I then took a large dictionary of interpretation and read this word “amnesia” – a weakening or loss of memory due to various brain damage. I refer this definition both to the one who accepted Jaroslav the Wise and to the one who wrote that he did nothing. And I read on, and there are times when memory disorders are temporary. Memory failure, when a person loses all memory for some time, does not reveal any significant memory impairments. This may occur when alcohol, some medications, such as tranquilizers and opium, are used at www.fecton.ru. I ask questions to the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u165	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u166	Check the two I called to determine if they are suffering from amnesia under the influence of what happens to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u167	National Deputy Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich, followed by national deputy Šlemko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u168	Dear voters, during a meeting with the management of VAT, Sumhimprom raised a number of important socio-economic issues. The point is that VAT “Sumihimprom” is now one of the active large state-owned chemical enterprises in Ukraine. The VAT "Sumihimprom" works under very difficult conditions, namely the global financial economic crisis that has affected the sale of finished products in the internal and external markets. Stopping most of the production capacity in connection with the halting of gas supplies in January 2009. It should be noted that the production of direct mineral fertilizers depends on a hundred percent of the supply of imported raw materials: phosphorite, chlorinated potassium, sulfur. The implementation of mineral fertilizers for export accounts for 90 percent of the total quantity of manufactured products. Thus, in 2008, some 110 million dollars of customs tax were paid. The non-recovery of VAT is a major reason that threatens the implementation of a mineral fertilizer programme, the growth of credit resources, and the need to pay VAT on imports of goods by monetary means. Inadequate circulation costs generate tax debt to the state budget of Ukraine and state funds. Under the debt law, there are foams and fines ranging from 10 to 50 percent of the amount owed. The company continuously engages banks’ credit resources, which also account for 30 percent of the use. The property of the company is in tax and credit bonds. VAT “Sumihimprom” has repeatedly addressed the DPA of Ukraine, the Prime Minister of Ukraine and many of the leading authorities on the timely return of VAT. The concluded memorandum of understanding between the Cabinet of Ministers and the chemical complex companies is implemented only by the company. The debt of the VAT reimbursement budget to the VAT “Sumihimprom” is increasing with each month. On March 16, 2009, some 82 million dollars were in debt. In January 2009, only 14 million dollars were recovered from the government budget. Paragraph 7 of the memorandum of understanding between the Cabinet of Ministers and the chemical complex of the Cabinet of Ministers does not meet the requirements of paragraph 7. But this is not being done. The failure to return VAT to the company is contrary to the current legislation of Ukraine in accordance with the provisions of the Ukrainian Law on Added Value Tax, the return of compensation within 60 days. Today, the company’s budget is unable to withstand such pressure as to pay off debts at the proper time to the State Budget and the social funds. Debt amounts to some 62 million dollars, including debt for natural gas over 20 million dollars. In this regard, taking into account all the issues raised, I ask the Government of Ukraine to address the matter in essence and to take the necessary steps to accelerate tax compensation for the added value of VAT “Sumihimprom”. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u169	Schlemko Dmitry Vasilovich, next Natalia Královska.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u170	Respectable fellow countrymen. Of course, the financial and economic situation in Ukraine is not easy. However, the government's components, which unfortunately are more than those who are willing to shoulder aid at such a difficult time, claim that the worsening economic situation in Ukraine is the result of government activity, the inability to manage the country, the absence of an anti-crisis programme. This is particularly zealous of the opposition government, which, as it were every day, of the Supreme Council of Ukraine out of all the media available, claims that if they were in power, the anti-crisis program they had developed that would significantly improve the socio-economic situation in the country. It was thought out, indeed, why does the current government of Julia Timoshenko not take advantage of the work of the professional capacity of the opposition government and take advantage of what they already have. In this regard, I take the materials for sitting down the opposition government at number 17 of February 4, and decision number 18 of February 19, 2009. The popular figures are taken from the press, not even from official sources of state statistics. Clearly why. Because it doesn't fit the logic of criticizing an active opposition government. I'll call it just a few examples. I quote the material of the opposition government. The effects of such actions are referred to by government authorities as evidence of a resurgence in the trend of reduced profits and accumulated losses. In fact, business income statistics have increased by 4.6 percent at the start of the financial and economic crisis in 2008. Or I quote: “Timoshenko’s government has robbed millions of depositors who kept deposits in their bracelets.” Feel the tract – “government”, not the National Bank of Ukraine, which according to the Constitution of Ukraine, Ukraine's NBA Act, is fully responsible for monetary policy in the state. And this is in the document of the opposition government, whose ministers all of the deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and, as they claim, expert experts themselves. Thus, it cannot be called incompetence or error. It is a desire to deceive people who do not always understand the finesse of politics. Some positions even give rise to surprises. Thus, in 2008 the government of Yulia Timoshenko acted on the rise of nominal monthly wage, pensions, and other social benefits are called social populism. So perhaps if an opposition government were in power, it would have deliberately reduced the social standards of the country’s population in terms of rising prices to the most needed goods and services. A fairly strong suggestion, according to members of the opposition government, is the way out of the present crisis. I quote: “It is necessary to load our production capacity with internal orders, reduce the permit system, reduce the tax pressure of the national manufacturer” and so on. A set of wishes, not specific mechanisms, to put into effect what is said. After studying all the documents, at the end of the material, I found the answer to the question posed: “Where is the programme of the opposition government in its leader’s speech?” he said, “We have been working on the anti-crisis program for a long time, but so much has changed, so we are processing this program now.” [[Claimed by Mr. Janukovic]] It's a very good option -- until we create the program, the crisis will end. It's very good to have one.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u171	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u172	He's promising, he's indicating, but he's not helping. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u173	Natalia Juryovna Kraljevska. Next National Deputy Undercover.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u174	Respectable colleagues, respected by Aleksandr Vladimirović, respected TV viewers, were on the second reading of the Act on State regulation in the field of gaming for consideration in the Supreme Council. Unfortunately, on the agenda, we have not been able to consider the bill. In view of the great social dimension, and especially during the crisis, I appeal to the President of the Supreme Council, the factions'heads of committees, to consider the possibility of agreeing on a preliminary perspective for the bill. Because the bill is a very serious social burden. More than 500 amendments were made to the second reading bill. This shows that this is a very complex and ambiguous law, and that our country has a very serious lobby for this business, and it does not leave the desire to really resolve and enact the rules of the game business in our country alone. And the fact that in 17 years, no Supreme Council has ever had the courage to step up the game business speaks of much, too. Such unsuccessful attempts have led to the fact that today the existence of a gambling business is totally unlimited and has a totally social negative impact. What is the “Igor business”? It's a business of vice, it's a business of people's weaknesses, it's what today leads to people ending their lives with suicide as a result of leaving money in gambling establishments and leaving their families homeless. Some studies have shown that when a gambling plant is opened in the city, it is followed by a massive bankruptcy of small businesses. Players lose interest in all productive activities. That's why we have a gambling business in society. is much more negative than other entertainment industries. Therefore, game business in civilized countries is either prohibited or placed within a strict framework. Restricting the game business is a crazy problem for Ukraine today. We are facing an uncontrolled proliferation of slot machines that involve all new and new people, juvenile citizens, in gambling. Today, 1 out of every 10 Ukrainians owes free money to a one-armed bandit, instead of having them as a family, another 20 to 30 per cent of the people at risk of this addiction, and medical authorities have found that today the dependence on the gambling business is already equaled to drug addiction. Regrettably, in 17 years of independence, no solution had been found to the problem in order to resolve the issue. To pass the law, there was neither political nor moral will. And now, unfortunately, again in the Supreme Council Hall, there are such statements that there will be no voting for the law, because the lobbying law is wrong. Please set up a working group. Let us work on each provision of this law. All that's unacceptable, all that.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u175	Finish up, Natalia Yuriovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u176	To remove from this bill, but to be able to have a moral duty of the people's deputies to adopt the law. The question is: To ban, if there's room support, let's ban the gambling business at all. There will be support for the hall, let's deal with the gambling business in the strongest possible way. But permissiveness now and lawlessness will lead to an enormous social burden on people during the crisis. And that will be the responsibility of the members of the Supreme Council. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u177	Thank you, Natalia Yuriovna. Hopefully, your last amendment to the total ban will also be in the comparative table, it'll be very productive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u178	Alexander Vladimirović, I believe that the political will of the Hall must be done, not the political interests of individual deputies, or that this law should lead to total populism. Let's sit down, let's go. There will be support for the Hall, let us bring it from me, from all representatives of all political factions and accept it. And I'm going to vote for it myself, and I'm going to support it. Let's just do this together. I do not support the fact that individual deputies seek separate political dividends by expressing beautifully, speaking beautifully at press conferences, but by making completely different amendments. Five hundred amendments and not one banning them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u179	Thank you, Natalia Yuriovna. People's MP Upstairs, next Deputy Shershun.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u180	The honourable chairman, the honourable voters, March 15th we had a very important day for the country, and there were 85 consecutive elections. Everyone's hearing from Ternopil, Ternopil district. All today determine whether there were elections or not. One side says they were. Yulia Timoshenko thinks it was the Presidential Sabbath. What's the result, whether there's been a breach of legislation, is that it's all secondary. First and foremost, for the first time in the world, there is a precedent in the country when the country’s head, the head of state, the president of the country, urged citizens not to comply with the decision of the Supreme Council, the decision of the country’s main legislative body. Moreover, the trend followed when the organizers of the so - called electoral process began to ignore the judges ’ decisions. But this did not only take place in Ternopolska, but this example may have generated optimism in some other areas. For example, the village of Djørjinsk, the town of Rownekki Lugansk. On March 13, there was a court, the Rowenkov City Court, which ruled that the right to participate in the electoral process was violated by the electoral legislation of Chezdenko Valentina Dmitrovna. But the court’s decision somehow refused to accept the commission’s secretary, members of the commission, who had been filmed on video by a local television company. This decision was hidden, and on March 15 the man was chosen as the head of the village council. There is only one question that arises as to how this person can carry out these duties in violation of legislation today. This is a continuation of the precedent set by the President by ignoring legislation. So I think that today the Attorney General's Office should study this issue, especially in Ternopol and in this case in the village of Djrjinsk. On which I made a parliamentary inquiry. And we need to understand today that if we don't stop this legal vacuum, the country will just stop being a country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u181	National MP Shershun Mikola Haritonovich, please. He'll be followed by Soroczynska-Kyrilenko People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u182	Mikola Shershun, Block Lithuania. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! Dear National Deputies! For days the Ukrainian delegation participated in the fourth meeting of the Inter-Parliamentary Assembly of Ukraine and the Republic of Poland. As part of this delegation, I represented the Committee on Biological Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster. Together with the Commission on Environmental, Natural Resources and Forestry of the Polish Federation, we signed a memorandum on the harmonization of Ukraine's former legislation in accordance with the requirements of EU legislation, as well as on the introduction of joint projects in the field of ecology. This important document also refers to problems related to cross-border cooperation between Ukraine and Poland. It's about setting up our overseas highways and cleaning up the environment, and we're not doing much work here. I'll be honest, it's embarrassing when you stop at Volinski Stiles and you see such negligence, and that's the gate of Ukraine. This is where foreigners get their first, far from the best, the impression of our country, especially the shock of our roads, the impression that we are not deliberately repairing them. Time requires the immediate modernization and expansion of existing transitions and the construction of new, new transitions need at least ten. We also need to ensure that the status of our fellow countrymen who cross the border is enhanced. It is hurtful to see the customs of another state demeaning the Ukrainians, even forcing them to turn their pockets. Another painful problem, a lack of common customs and border control. If, by 2007, such control had taken place on the Ukrainian-Polish border at two points, the Polish side had now returned its services to its own territory, motivated by the conclusions of the European Commission and by reference to the appropriate position of the Schengen Agreement. Obviously, the problem of joint border control is not as legal as the result of mistrust. The European Commission to the Ukrainian side. And there's something to work on for our diplomats, and in the future, it's about introducing a visa-free regime for our citizens to join the EU. Today, there is a need to ensure implementation of the simplified border crossing agreement, which is being breached by many EU consular institutions. It is also necessary for both Ukraine and Poland to jointly initiate the issue of extending the border zones to 50 kilometers before Brussels, taking into account that this position is stipulated in the corresponding agreement. The Lithuanian bloc draws the attention of the nation's leadership to cross-border cooperation issues and advocates a systematic solution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u183	National Deputy Soroczynska-Kyrilenko, please. None. National Deputy Stishenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u184	Dear voters! My dear countrymen! I hesitated for a long time or went to the rostrum today with the publication of the letter we received from you in the faction. I'm referring to those categories, the category of people's deputies who are still trying to find a constructive way to organize the work of the Supreme Council. But after today's events, this myth has dissolved and I'm doing your will. “ Deputy of the Prophets. You're being approached by the voters of the Bobrinecki constituency number 96 Kirovograd district. It was us, the simple people of the small Bobrinec steppe in December 1996, who elected Timoshenko as their national deputy and voted 98 percent for it. It was we who gave her a journey into great politics by putting an incredibly heavy load on her shoulders. We are proud to stand up for justice along with it in the U.S. Union of the Motherland of which we are members and will never betray our leader. Julia Volodymyrna has done a lot of good for our area, and we always remember that. Now she's the Prime Minister, and I'm sure that's a fact that's driving you mad. That's why you're watering it with dirt from the Supreme Council stands and all the TV talk show "Freedom." These shows with you people don't want to watch and turn off the TV anymore. Your behavior is only indignant to us. And your language is not shaped by literary words as if you're lying and otherwise it's amazing how a female MP can act like that, what kind of example do you set for people and your children? Your palatological hatred of Timoshenko is explained by our efforts to thank the regionals for helping you break through to the Supreme Council, because neither your "Osmium generation" nor "More" have been able to do so. So you are now in the Party of Regions as a “chain dog” that “snakes day and night for a piece of meat”. Shame and shame on you, a woman who has become the standard of evil, hatred, and culture in Ukraine! Take a look at your presentations at the meetings of the Supreme Council, on TV shows, at home on TV at night. Would you not feel ashamed for yourself? Your divine name provides for a completely different figure, and you should bring good things to people and praise God. Come on, Inno German!" Thank you for allowing me to deliver this letter from the rostrum of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u185	National deputy of Kzarykov, followed by the national deputy of Arjewitin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u186	Respectable voters, respectable people of Ukraine! The sale of Ukrainian bourgeois elites has already been confirmed. A formerly powerful country known as the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, today's peak of officials continues to cast on all interests, both at the State and at the international level. The country of Ukraine and the people of Ukraine, President Yushchenko, are once again humiliating at the international level. Handing over parts of the country to Western Puppet Guides, the Zmeiny Island oil and gas shelves, with billions of cubic metres of gas and oil, as an analogue of “stupid I.O. The king” and famous cinema masterpiece, President Yushchenko continues to betray Ukraine's interests at the international level. Traveling abroad, he makes promises on behalf of the whole country. In an interview with the German Broadcasting Company, he stated that the process of integrating Ukraine's public gas transport system, the creation of the European gas market, was beginning. This is, if translated into Russian, the issue of the actual hidden sale of the site of national importance, the national security of the Ukrainian gas transport system to transnational corporations and Western masters. At the same time, political bankruptcy continues to be the practice of its predecessors, the political overturners and the 18th year already sell what belongs to the entire people and was created by the entire generation and the titanic efforts of the Soviet people. Even from the economic point of view of the bourgeois State, Yushchenko is engaged. Hatred of all Soviet, national and Russianophobia and unwillingness to cooperate with its brotherly neighbouring countries of the Commonwealth of Independent States pushes Yushchenko into another deal with the devil, the actual surrender of Ukraine's gas transport system to Western capital. On the other hand, Belarus's partnership shows how to build an honest, good-neighbourly relationship for the benefit of two peoples. Belarus, for example, has undertaken a number of important tasks to modernize its GTS to Russia. The first task, the country had received an economically sound programme for both its people and the producer's group. As a result, the cost of Russian gas for the people of Belarus is three and a half times lower than for Ukraine. Belarus is also making money in the budget by transporting more than thirty-three billion cubic metres of gas to Europe. And proof of the effectiveness of such policies for the benefit of the two peoples is the beginning of the construction of the second branch of the gas transport system, Jamal-Western Europe. We therefore call on President Yushchenko, on behalf of the faction of Ukraine, not to commit another economic crime against the people, because in the end, he will still be fully politically and criminally responsible for such acts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u187	National MP Arjevetin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u188	Stanislaw Arzhevtin, deputy group for Ukraine. Dear Ukrainians, today there is a 370-year-old in our country from the birth of Gethtman of Ukraine, John Mazepa. John Mazepa is a prominent builder of the Ukrainian State, a wise politician, a diplomat and general, a talented poet, a patron of education and art, a defender of Orthodox faith. For centuries the name John Mazepa has been erased from the national memory, and that is why it is important today to restore justice and the truth about this great Ukrainian actor. At the time, the empire did so for one purpose, to destroy the very idea of Ukraine’s independence, to turn it into a subdued territory without the past and the future, but the Cossacks did not give in, and their descendants today stood and vanquished. This led to our becoming an independent state. The very days of Bogdan Hmelnick and John Mazepa were in special years of rebirth from the ruins, the years of raising the national and state life of Ukraine, the prosperity of Ukrainian architecture, education, and the churches. Thanks to Gethman, John Mazepa was the creation of a new Cossack chief, a state elite, and the conversion of Ukrainian Cossack into a powerful regular army. In 1704, John Mazepi succeeded in uniting the Coastal and Left Banking Ukraine into a single state, and Ukraine became a country of European culture and tradition. It is now evident that John Mazepa is not a traitor, John Mazepa, the defender of the native Ukrainian land, John Mazepa, has set up for Ukraine. It is time to finally break the false myths of the betrayal of John Mazepa, the Ukrainians and her state of Mazepa, and his patriotic actions inspired Ukrainian patriots centuries before the struggle for Ukraine’s independence. The greatest recognition of the righteousness of Gethman Mazepa was the independence of the Ukrainian state, and today its monuments are sifting all over Ukraine from his native village of Mazepenci in Bilocerkowska to the Hehtman residence in Baturin in Chernigovishte. Hail Gethtman Mazepi! Praise be to his Cossacks!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u189	Dubil Valery Alexanderovich, please. Next National Deputy Yavorowski Volodymyr Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u190	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! I would like to continue the topic of abuse by officials of the Kyiv City State Administration, which was raised by my colleagues. What are we talking about? Recently, I received some tests of the State Environmental Inspection in Kiev. The facts that have been revealed not only to us deserve your careful attention, but also to law enforcement agencies. First, checks of the structural units of the Kyivzelenbud community, on which there is a green plantation of the city, establish that almost all the passports of green-farming parks, squares, greens along the roads do not correspond to reality and is a pure formality. In particular, the distribution of green plants by breed, age, diameter, quality, and number of trees does not match. I think it's a little something. But that's not true. One hundred - year - old tree costs 10,000 bracelets. There are facts that from March 10 to 11, 140 of these trees were burned. That's one million 400,000 dollars lost for the city and for the state budget. Another example of the accident in Kiev is the situation with the waterways and the coastal area of the capital. Pursuant to the statute of the Pleso utility, the company has been created as a specialised water management organization for the purpose of protecting, maintaining and operating internal waters and land of the Kiev water fund. At the same time, the company does not determine the size of the land that is actually used. There are no documents that show ownership of land activities that violate articles 125 and 126 of the Ukrainian Land Code and create conditions for widespread abuse. At the same time, 27 beach farms have been created on water funds with a total area of more than 200 hectares [200 ha] with land laws being violated. No documents certifying the right to rent on the land indicated by the company have been obtained. What is a violation of article 59 of the Earth Code? The Pleso utility has made contracts with entrepreneurs and city organizations to use the land under cafes, beaches, harbours, pontoons – all of this is a violation of Ukrainian legislation. In addition, Pleso, a utilities company, operates domestic water objects in Kiev, but so far the company has not developed any water business passports. According to the KMDA of 29.09.1997, the number 1496 on the transfer of the main funds of Kyiv’s municipal property to the balance sheet of the Pleso Pleso Pleso Plešno water treatment plants of the Blječí, Telička, Kharkiv highway, Rajovna and Trojščina residential water. The functional purpose of these structures is to clean up sewage and water. In the meantime, it's established that in the sanitary area of the housing treatment plant, Rajovna is equipped with garbage cars and garbage containers. On the accommodations of Kharkiv, there are garage boxes and bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u191	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u192	This is all a violation of articles 44, 95, 96 of the Ukrainian Water Code and article 4 of the Ukrainian Land Rental Act. In this way, Pleso’s utility is able to make money illegally.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u193	No, finish -- that doesn't mean you can read the whole text. Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u194	A temporary commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine was created to investigate the situation and violations of the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine. Please check the above facts and take into account the circumstances in the preparation of the report of the commission. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u195	Yavrovsky Vladimir Alexandrovich, please. Two regulations, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u196	Ladies and gentlemen, I can name you all by name. As a result, I address our electorate first.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u197	Volodymyr Alexanderovich, seven.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u198	To those who have the courage to listen to us. You know, I'm increasingly convinced that we, the Ukrainian society, are living in absolutely two realities that are fiercely competing or even hostile. The first reality is, of course, the main mass of our Ukrainian people, who in these difficult times of the day are looking for a piece of bread, they make a penny to pay for community services to teach their children somehow and so forth. There is another society in Ukraine, another reality is actually today's Ukrainian authorities, who live completely their own lives, arranged, far away from the life of the main Ukrainian people. That's why I want to call the life of power two today, and analyze them, two concrete examples. First. It is our home capital, with over 3 million inhabitants who have their own mayor, who has their own city authority. I am a member of the interim commission of inquiry, to which the Supreme Council, the legislative body, has been entrusted along with a group of deputies to study violations that allow mayors and city authorities in Kiev. The situation arose, and we discussed it for a long time on the committee, as it happened, the Kiev crisis didn't pass away, and it slipped into it just like our cities, villages, towns and so forth, so much so, so much the problem of cars, when we don't go anywhere from cars to cars today, it's going from one end of town to another, it's not going to pay the wages. And the mayor of town suddenly thought of something, and he started singing. How he sings, literally, from morning to evening. This led us to think that perhaps he should be asked to examine the state of his mental health. I'm just saying one more time. No one has the right to bring him. We thought he'd thank us for this, he'd say, "Oh, good boy, I'm really gonna go through this independent psychiatric committee and everyone will step away from me, please, I'm a normal person, you're all crazy." Instead, the mayor gives interviews, bathes, gathers a few grandmothers around him, bathes in swimsuits, and gives interviews in swimsuits. I'll tell you that I took this proposal from our commission somewhat ironically. Well, you know, a man might have some sort of personality there, like Franco used to say, and so forth. But after that press conference he gave me, I'm absolutely convinced that he needs to be checked and checked immediately. It turns out that he's going to turn to international society, and it turns out that he's absolutely powerful, just means. That is, such an interview with a date, you see, is such a feeling that a person really has a mental disorder. The second example that I want to call from the life of our superior authority. I'm a member of the torture scene, and I remember, while Victor Balog was actually the victim. I stayed up all night with my colleagues at these polling stations, where we were knocked out of windows, pushed out and pushed into a dark corner and so forth. Who could have thought that this would happen again literally after a while would be repeated in Ternopolis, but already under Balogah’s own guidance. The axis of morality, here's the level of our Ukrainian authority today. Moreover, one Ukrainian poet who already, let's put it this way, means talent, poetic emotion, doesn't give her any bonus there, writes a letter to the President, such a message to the national community, and mainly because Yavorowski is a beater. This is the biggest fault of the Writer's Association led by a man who belongs to the Timoshenko Block of July. Well, she wrote to herself. In such a case, this letter is sent to the governing body of a public organization that has its own self-governance -- please get out there and give the author an answer. Instead, Baloga writes with a note, I saw this letter, to the Attorney General's Office right before the discovery of the criminal case. And the poor prosecutors -- once again, the Attorney General's Office, the city's Kyiv Prosecutor's Office, the district attorney's office, I don't know which one of them is the moon of half-cocked people running around, hiding their eyes, and letting them know that "we're not here for anything, but you understand us." I want to remind Mr. Balogee. Mr. Balogo! Mr. Victor! Please remind Medvedchuk. He was already involved with the Writer’s Association, and this was one of the witnesses of what happened to Medvedchuk. We held our literary convention on the street, the writers would not let their dignity be demeaned, and we would not let you do so. Who gives you the right to order today, to transfer documents to the D.A.'s office, and so forth? Who are you? We want to know. What you're doing in Ternopol means these shares. But I'm telling you again, and I'm telling the D.A.: Don't get into these adventures! It's a political order, and you'll be very ashamed, because there's nothing there in these poverty that's authoritarian, apart from the literary honor and dignity, you won't find anything there.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u199	National MP Ungurian. None. People's deputy Krill. None. People’s Deputies of Paris.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u200	Paribay Andrey, “For Ukraine! ” During the days, the National Stock Company Naftogaz Ukraine released Jaroslav Marchuk from office as director of its subsidiary, Ukrattransgaz. In his place it is planned to appoint Constantine Efimenka, who is now the head of the BUT faction in the Kiev District Council. Why is this a matter of concern to all those in positions of state? Because I want to remind you of the recent event when, early this year, the Russian leadership and the Kremlin launched a gas attack on Ukraine aimed at halting the supply of energy to the east and south of Ukraine. In fact, to bring about collapse not only of the Ukrainian economy but also of the Ukrainian state as a whole. It was then that Ukratranshazu experts created a technical miracle in January 2009. For the first time in the history of the gas transport system, Ukraine diverted gas flows from west to east. By transporting gas streams from underground gas depots in western Ukraine to Donbas, Transnistria, Kharkishte, Ukraine’s gas pipelines have saved the entire collapse of Ukrainian industry and have ensured that housing, schools, hospitals, and kindergartens can be properly burned throughout Ukraine. Ukraine’s gas supply could take 2 months without gas supplies from Russia. Timoshenko did not take advantage of the strong position of our state, which had Europe's largest gas reserves and could impose its terms on negotiations with Gazprom. Instead, the Kremlin Prime Minister agreed to an extremely unfavourable gas contract. Moreover, Jaroslav Marchuk, who was in charge of a brilliant operation, is now relieved of his position to ensure Ukraine’s stable gas supply in January. What is it about dealing with a patriotic and professional person? Timothy puts his head in the position of this man, known as the land machinations of the faction in the Kyiv District Council, Constantine Jephimenka. The “For Ukraine” group urges the Prime Minister to review his next anti-Ukraine personnel decision immediately. We are aware that similar personnel decisions can lead to what Russia is demanding today in Ukraine -- to privatize the Ukrainian gas transport system. If this does not happen, if this personnel decision is not reversed, this will further confirm the fact that the Prime Minister does not need qualified and loyal experts. And it's ready to destroy all the experts who advocate national interests in the foreign ministry or in the UK or in any other structure.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u201	National MP Gnatkovic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u202	Dear Ukrainians! I have to meet not often in the districts that I'm responsible for, and that's one meeting where one woman's group asked, we don't ask what we have a beggar's salary anymore, we don't ask you why we don't have anything to treat people for, we ask you why you're all so stupid there that you can't understand each other. Unfortunately, we're not stupid here, we just have many different political interests and different visions of Ukraine's future. But of course, Ukraine is characterized by disunity, as can be managed by a society where several five Orthodox churches, with more than 100 parties, have two languages that collide with one another. As the rest can be ruled by the government without the support of the President, and in fact by the President of the war. How can the government run its state if they don't listen and they don't come to the meeting of governors, as if it doesn't have cooperation with the National Bank. We don't have the cooperation, the mutual assistance and the mutual benefit. We, if you're looking at our hall, it's our empty hall now, we're winding up this hall, we're reading newspapers, we're talking to each other, I remember when Popovitch's father came from Ozina to see the son of the cosmonaut, so we called for a meeting, how to call Popovic the cosmonaut out of the hall, and we didn't call. It's a discipline in the hall, and it's in a society that's like that in society. How easy it is to manage our society in such a balanced and undisciplined society. We're already being told, give us Andronov back, give us Stalin back, find us a new Pinocchio. We will recall the Singing Field and Maidan, as if we were listening to the slogan: “The Bandits – Prisons”, “The Oligarchs will pay the real price”, “The rich will share with the poor, not the word, but the deed.” Time is passing, not just by deed, but by word of mouth no one has mentioned these slogans. It is not easy to direct our government in a state of confusion in a completely disillusioned society. You know, I was sitting here in the front row and in the first call, there's a young communist named Sergey Hrapov sitting there right now, thinking about how this private property is going to go through factories and factories. It was enough to come to Leonidas Kuchmi and everything was crucified, everything was torn apart, it was stolen in a few years, it was a gross sin committed, the people robbed and insulted. How we can direct a stolen and offended nation, how we can manage it without the support of our bourgeoisie. Our attempts at understanding with the Party of Regions were actually attempts to understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u203	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u204	It didn't work out. It's going to spread society with different languages, with different churches, with different votes, in different regions, unfortunately, it is. But I believe that Ukraine has a future, and it will find leaders who will be able to unite it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u205	National Deputy Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u206	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, honourable MPs, the distinguished Ukrainian people, today certainly in these crisis situations that the whole country is experiencing, everyone has to think about how to get out of the crisis. Association. Agriculture, environmental security, which I have the privilege of leading, offers the way out. Unfortunately, even though I'm a member of the coalition council, I'm not reaching out to the government yet, I'm not reaching out to the Ministry of Agrarian Policy. I'd like to reach out to them today at least from this rostrum, and I'd like to show that the way out of the crisis is in any direction. So let's take agriculture, and we all know that most farmers now can't buy the necessary amount of soil because of its rather high value and sown the fields with a reduced likeness. And the results will be obvious, for national wisdom says, “What you sow, you will reap.” Among other things, the problem can be solved too easily with microwave technology. The seed that has been processed in the microwave increases its similarity significantly. This is seen in virtually all plants grown in Ukraine — grains, oil, technical long - term grasses, and others. The lower the primal resemblance, the more effective the effect on the seeds of the microwave field. Research shows that under the influence of microwave treatment in wheat, the similarity increases by 10-12 percent, in barley by 12-15, in corn by 10-13, in Greek by 8-13. But that's not all, the important achievements that are today that are not being used by the authorities anywhere, the authorities are not using any of those millions, hundreds of millions that have gone to support the agrarian industry is not being used to implement micro-wave technology. And we can do that and we've already studied this problem in 55 cultures and 156 varieties and hybrids. And studies have shown that using microwaves to process seeds leads to an increase in the yield of cereal crops by 10 to 33 percent. Grain beans up to 50 percent, Greeks and sunflowers up to 40, vegetable crops up to 29.4 percent. These are the major achievements that are not being used in this country today. The new technology has a positive effect on the quality of production and gives farmers additional market advantages, which are well - researched in the cultivation of raps, rice, and vegetables. And I also want to make a point by asking the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Security Service, to pay attention to what is going on in Kiev. It's about the fact that KMDA's leadership is actually usurping power and going.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u207	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u208	There's a raid going on. And then they turn from municipal to one family under control. Intruder alert, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u209	Victor Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u210	Victor Corge Party of the Regions. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! The issue of population immunization has long been widely publicized in the media and is a source of great concern to our fellow countrymen about the security of its conduct in our country. That's why the Party of Regions, our faction, initiated the establishment of a temporary investigation commission to investigate the causes of the death of a 17-year-old in Kramatorsk, following the results of an additional immunization company against the “crust” and “pretty” which was repeatedly under review in the sessional room and was effectively blocked in Parliament by the authorities. I would like to point out that the reasons for investigating this issue, in addition to one fatal incident, were unique health problems — more than two hundred registered vaccine reactions. I recall that, according to the results of clinical, pathological and anatomical studies and expert findings, and these are the leading experts in our country, it is known that Anton Tishchenk's death and the mass health complications among the population are directly linked to the carrying out of an additional immunization company, and its conduct is considered to be irrelevant, scientifically unfounded and not consistent with current legislation. Unfortunately, the political engagement of individual national MPs from the coalition, as well as their interest in concealing existing criminal acts of power, have prevented a number of important decisions from being made to reform and bring the existing international standards into line with the Ukrainian population immunization process. I would like to point out that, despite the illegal vaccinations that have been tried against millions of Ukrainian citizens, more specifically the nine million and the young themselves, and all the efforts to hide the guilty, thanks to the joint and active activities of representatives of our interim commission of inquiry, experts, as well as the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, have been brought to justice for the first time in recent years in the practice of the Supreme Council and the interim commission of inquiry. It should be noted that according to part three of article 365 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, a nondepartmental agreement has been taken and the charges brought against Mr. Prodanchuk, the first Deputy Minister of Health in a storm. We also hope that Mr. Knazevitch, the chief figure of this tragedy, will be called to account, who also initiated this illegal campaign and signed an illegal order. I'll give you an important fact. The entire batch of this vaccine is now being eliminated. It was abandoned by all organizations, such as WHO, UNICEF, and even third countries. And this is the most clear and vivid testimony that it was inadequacy and could be used in our country. Finally, I would like to stress that the health and responsibility of millions of citizens are safe.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u211	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u212	I would like to point out that the safety of the health of millions of citizens and the responsibility of the authorities to the population for their free and vulnerable policies has been and will be one of the main priorities of the Party of the Regions. And bringing the guilty to justice and bringing this resonant case to justice is the great and legitimate victory of the entire society. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u213	People's deputy to Popescu, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u214	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Honorary colleagues, high-ranking voters, on March 10, 2009, held successive meetings of subcommittees on human rights and minority rights issues of the Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe on legal issues and human rights. The agenda of the sitting included, among other things, the European Charter for Regional Languages and Languages of National Minorities. During the course of the discussion, the following questions were officially asked to the countries that had joined the Charter, particularly in Ukraine. Is there a political discussion in your country about the implementation of the Charter, or is there a difficulty in your country with the implementation of the Charter, or do you want an explanation of the specific aspects of the Charter and of the Council of Europe’s contribution to the recommendations adopted by the Committee of Experts and the Committee of Ministers? On the basis of the above, we draw the attention of the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Culture, the State Committee on Television and Radio Broadcasting, the State Commission on Migration and the NGOs of Ukraine's national minorities, which, in preparing this report, the relevant committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe will consider not only the official responses of the government, but also the alternative reports of non-governmental organizations of national minorities. That is why we demand that we stop violating the language rights of Ukrainian national minorities so that we do not become the subject of another European debate. And to the end. Taking this opportunity, I would like to inform all Ukrainian citizens that on March 27, 2009, the Party of Regions is protesting against the government's free socio-economic and humanitarian policies and we are waiting for all concerned citizens to be with us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-20-m0.u215	Thank you, Ivan Vasilovich. The morning plenary session is closed. The next meeting will take place on Tuesday, March 31st, at 10 a.m. Good luck.
