ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:40]] Cards were registered in the 437 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the national deputy Vasil Mikhailovich Gorbal. Let us welcome our colleague and wish him success. [[Applause]] Let me give you some information about the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the planning meetings on March 17, yesterday. Twenty questions on the agenda have been considered. As a result of the review: four laws and three decrees were passed, six bills and two draft regulations were adopted on a basis, two bills were sent for re-reading, and three bills were rejected. Honorary colleagues, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules, are allocated on Wednesday 30 minutes for speeches by national deputies with proposals, statements, and messages. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the speech. There's a recording going on. Please put the names of the national deputies who are registered on the board. Alexander Pecklusenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. What are you doing here? Nineteen people were enrolled. Dear colleagues, I can't rerecord. Well, dear fellows, the recording has been announced. So what can I do? Dear colleagues, according to the Rules, I announced what was going on. We didn't make it? It's a problem for those who haven't made it. I don't want to find a reason for the disturbance in the session room. All of it! Please, Pekleshenko is handing over the right to speak to Mikola Janovich Azarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u2	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Ukraine's Prime Minister, Yulia Timoshenko, stated: “The government's anti-crisis efforts in Ukraine have led to an increase in industrial production.” Let's give it up, shall we? Is it only by what means has the Government succeeded in destroying Ukraine's economy by more than 40 per cent? How did it have to work so that for the first time in 15 years the country’s economy would fall? The performance at the theatre continues to be absurd. The TV shows a picture, even decorations do not change how the Prime Minister visits the airline. Two aircraft, thanks to the heroic efforts of this Government, built by Yanukovic and on which I personally have been five times. Five times I've been in person! But now, in a few minutes, let's talk seriously about what is most disturbing to a party of regions. Nominal wages fell by 17 per cent in January and real wages by almost 20 per cent in response to inflation. High consumer price growth depreciates wages and labour savings. Every fifth Ukrainian, it's not interesting, is it, to the people's deputies?Oh, my God! Well, I think it'll be interesting for the tellers! - began to buy less food. Every 10 of them have to give up certain products. My Government is following this trend closely and its activities have reduced meat production 4 times in January-February. Actually, it's very harmful to eat meat. Next problem. Very serious, in my opinion. Unfortunately, our industry and the Ministry of Finance are working so well that the budget is full of holes. The Prime Minister continues to say that she has nothing to do with the National Bank. However, the National Bank, at the request of the Government, provided 35 billion grevens to the Petroleumgas for 3 months. That would be enough to increase our citizens' pensions by about 250 bracelets.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u3	Please finish, Mikola Janović.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u4	In less than three minutes, of course, it is impossible to give a detailed overview of the unique situation that has arisen. But the Party of the Regions is once again addressing the Government, finally presenting its anti-crisis programme, explain what you are finally doing. Because the rate of decline in the standard of living and the economy in Ukraine is ten times higher than in all the countries around us. Thank you. Think about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u5	Lithuania’s Yuri. Please, Litwin Yuri is transferring the right to speak to Catherine Vaschuk, the Lithuanian Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, distinguished radio listeners, the National Deputies of the “Lithuania Block” are again calling on our government to, indeed, seriously fulfil those promises made to the villagers, to pay off the debts of the budget last year, in particular the payments for the high-weighted conditions. People have thrown letters at us, not paid to people for their livestock, not paid back to peasants for their added value. And most importantly, it's the first quarter of 2009, it's going solitude, and for today we're paying attention to Minfin, that if we can get as many payments as we can on the first quarter of the village. And most importantly, it's paying off the interest on the loans received. And allow the peasants to get new loans. The fact that almost no banks are lending today to Ukraine’s agricultural sector cannot be kept silent. How Can I Make a Succeeding Campaign? Here's a reference to both the National Bank and the President in whose order it is, and to the government. The activities of governance structures in our country make such an impression, are now subordinated to one way of finding mechanisms to impose additional fines, additional powers, or create additional difficulties for manufacturers, rather than helping them survive in this situation. Dozens of people at receptions, hundreds of references in letters today require the government to review the working conditions of the Agrarian Fund, where you need to collect dozens of help to get you. You've been made that previous contract that makes it possible to get an advance and use it for a sussing campaign. The agrarian market has a special focus on 5,000 tons or more. They are not available to ordinary peasants, only to large traders. The decision to make is to maintain agrarian techniques in one place. It is now almost necessary to drive the entire technique into a district center or tens of miles [10 km] to a designated location. Is that necessary today — such difficulties for peasants? Tax administration, despite the numerous appeals of our deputies, cannot.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u7	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u8	He can't solve the issue of taxing the donor raw material. If you've grown beets, put them on the factory, the factory has nothing to be reckoned with, gave you sugar, so even though you're a VAT collector, you've got VAT for sugar, you've got VAT for bread. If only it had been purchased raw material, the legislator. We wrote everything right in the hall. The tax rulings of the peasants are null and void. So the Lithuanian National Deputies require real action, or really go to a meeting with the villagers, not just to say it in loud statements.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u9	Thank you, Catherine Timothy. Dear colleagues, I ask you to observe the Rules for three minutes because other deputies will not be able to speak. Please, the National Deputys Komar and Svašas are handing over the right to speak to Vladimir Ivanovich Landik. Please. Valentine, they said to Volodymyr, Valentine Landik, please, six minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u10	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Respectable TV audiences! I asked the faction of the regions to give me their word, but it's not a word, it's a cry of soul. I want to tell you what is really happening today in the machinery that is producing goods for the people, in the industry that is to become a locomotive after Ukraine's withdrawal from the deep crisis. Here we have been told, speakers in front of me, we are talking on television the rate of falling has dropped compared to the pace of the subject, and no one can understand this phraseology any more, what is it that has fallen or is growing? Just a concert. That is why we keep saying “the world crisis”, “everything is falling”. The global crisis -- let's look at Europe: one or two percent, all of it, and we have more than 40 percent. That's why I'm going to go purely industrial. The production of Nord refrigerators and the production of Donbass refrigerators. I am officially telling you that the decline against the corresponding period last year is 80 per cent. This year, too, when you take the March month, you fall 80 percent. Today, warehouses in Ukraine have a two-month supply of products, and stores in trade networks also have a two-month supply of products. We survive only by selling to Europe, Germany, France, converting this money and paying people's wages, there is no other income. Ukraine's market has been halted, and there is no money in the people. Consider, for example, the implementation of industrial refrigerators and windowsills, which are for water, for beer, for ice cream, a fall of 90 per cent against the relevant period of last year. March is the same decline of 90 percent. So, we're taking warehouses, and there's a two-month supply. We'll take gas, electric combined plates, that's the product that was always good in winter. These are winter products, falling 60 per cent by the relevant period of last year and the remainder by two months as well. Let's take the production and implementation of industrial conditioners, who go for heat, which go for electric vehicles, which go for cranes and so on. Let's take compressors, the most complex machine-building products, 60 percent drop. The question is, what's the end of this game and what we're going to come to, what's the finals, and what's the finals, and we're going to eat and we're going to stop, because the credits that are offering us under 40% of our age today, nobody's going to be, I'm telling you, we're not going to take them, remember. And the famous phrase “Money — Goods — Money” does not work, and this is our high-ranking people today saying “money first of all”, the goods first of all, and under the goods there is money, you can't say that. That's why the paper will always be paper and fantatic. Another legitimate question: Why can't you work? - It's a legitimate question. And I say, 17 years of independent Ukraine, we've grown up, we can all see, since the 91st year of growing, growing, growing and growing, and that's 18th year of independence that I've weakened, and the world crisis has choked. No, I guess we're saying it wrong, let's be clear, we don't know how to run things in our country, we don't have them, and that's why the question can't stand. Let's ask the second question, you tell me why you keep criticizing, you don't offer anything. I want to remind you, Julia Vladimirovna's first arrival, she's standing here on this stand, she says, "I'm reaching out to the business." Please, I'm going from there and I'm giving a strategy for Ukraine's transition to sustainable development, it's taking it, it's completely written here, and it's more against the handshake we've never had a conversation, and so on and so forth. So I repeat that I can even tell respectable comrades while I have a few words to read and strategies. There has already been “a prerequisite for shaping strategic development goals, external factors of influence, the threat of global slowing down of the pace of global economic development”. Here we wrote and I'm telling you. And we've seen it. From an economic point of view, here again we wrote that the market alone would not go to export. So again, what I want to do is I want to do it again, see if time is enough, what do I have to do? First. Set priorities in the economy and start to grow clearly and transparently by products, create prerequisites for fair competition and start to fight corruption in real terms. Constantly lowering public spending rather than talking about it, and we're gonna make it. Please, work! Please run the state! And I conclude with Ludwig Ergerd's words: "No economic situation can be so hopeless that the willful will and honest work of all the people will not be able to cope with it." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u11	The word is Akimova instead of Viktor Yanukovic, please. Get ready, Fish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u12	Dear colleagues! I want to draw your attention to the situation in the financial sector, which we have now begun to forget a little. Unfortunately, the financial sector has not improved, it continues to be very serious. First, the continued flow of bank deposits, which did not decrease, increased in January and February. This introduction has already taken place in 11 banks of the interim administration, which shows that there has been an increase in problems in the banking sector. This is an increase in the proportion of problem credits currently estimated at 15-20 per cent. And this is a decline in real-sector lending, which I think is now felt by completely all entrepreneurs. This problem is not abstract; it is very close to each voter and to every entrepreneur. Because the lack of stability in the banking sector is, first of all, long-term frozen deposits for people who cannot take them and ensure normal living conditions. This continued pressure towards devaluation of the bracelet, which means expensive loans, which means that it is impossible for banks to review their conditions to facilitate the lives of those who took the money in the bank; and these are very expensive loans for the business sector, which now reach 35-40 per cent. Without stabilizing the banking sector, the economy from the weighting crisis cannot. What does the Government do now? Calling these actions systemsless, I think it'll be quite right. These actions are systemsless and inconsistent and do not allow for real stabilization of the banking sector. What is it? There is still no clear and clear law on how the State will recapitalize commercial banks. There are neither conditions nor criteria, which means that virtually there is a huge opportunity for both administrative pressure and corruption. Secondly, contrary to the statements made by our Prime Minister, so far the stabilization fund does not have the means to recapitalize banks. With regard to the IMF loan, another tranche, the Government has so far suffered a huge defeat and its proposals now seem very controversial: on the one hand, the Government supports the receipt of the tranche through the deterioration of the social conditions of the population, on the other hand, it promises not to make those conditions worse. What can I believe? Both sides are clearly deceived. We understand that without an urgent budget review, without the urgent adoption of the Bank Recapitalization Act, the situation cannot stabilize, we require a clear anti-crisis programme, especially in the banking sector.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u13	Let me finish. Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u14	In order for the population to feel relieved, our credit and deposit commitments and our business sector have been able to access cheaper loans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u15	Sergey Ribuk, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u16	Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, national deputies, I have also asked for the floor to draw your attention to the problem, particularly agriculture for the moment. On April 3-4, there's always a lot of work going on all over the country, and there's a lot of work going on in the spring field. A week ago, with the consent and goodwill of Parliament, we held parliamentary hearings on the problems of the agro-industry complex, particularly agriculture and the food industry. Thanks to the wisdom of our agrarians, they did not criticize us harshly with you, although we all deserved it regardless of who the faction belonged to. But there was a constructive conversation with the point, and it was right, in the form of parliamentary recommendations, that, at the moment, the executive authorities should do, first of all, in an operational order and change ultimately the strategy that we are talking about so that agriculture will be able to cope with the crisis that it is also experiencing for more than a year. But you know, the main thing that we've now felt, and at the last three meetings of the agrarian committee, is that somehow the active government is in some kind of helplessness, something in the confusion, and another, but it's uninitiative. In the last three meetings of the agrarian policy committee, we have considered about 40 bills, and the left-hand side is 95 percent of those bills are the National MPs' initiative. And the government that passed a few bills, and those of us had to go to work. I did not in vain ask the Prime Minister: “Please say impartially, this agrarian policy that is today, it is pleasing, it is realistic, it will help to get out of this peak. You got a result that you said you were stupid yourself, you worked, you had fewer seeds, we had more grains and so on. So in fact, what we've been proposing and suggesting is that we move away from the quantitative parameters of the indicators and move on to issues and problems of improving agricultural efficiency. And now lending is not open, budget funding is not open, hundreds of thousands of calls every day are everywhere to save us, and thus a very difficult situation. Let's look at the problems right after the parliamentary hearings, and we'll still assign the government to take specific action in agriculture and insemination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u17	People’s deputy Fesenko is transferring the right to speak to Anatoly Kirilovich Kinah. Prepare Grigorovich Lilia Stepani.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u18	Honorable National MPs are forced to continue the topic of the Ukrainian Security Service report on the protection of national interests. In today's conditions, and we feel this very painfully as a state, there are significant increases in risks, in exams, especially towards international terrorism, illegal migration, economic, energy security. Ukraine is in a very crisis situation in the context of the efficiency of special services. And to support this, the fact that the implementation of Ukraine's national security strategy, which was approved about two years ago, has been virtually disrupted to date. In practice, decisions relating to the reform strategy of the Ukrainian Security Service are being broken down, and not only are we reducing our capacity as a state, our authority, but this situation has already gone far from being responsible for the matter. There was an official statement yesterday by the Ukrainian Foreign Intelligence Service, and I quote that the head of the Ukrainian Security Service had misled the Supreme Council of Ukraine during the report. This is an unprecedented event. This is about investigating the so - called betrayal by the government of Ukraine of state interests. The formulation itself has already done a terrible damage to our international authority, Ukraine’s dignity. As a result, once again I would like to emphasize in particular the position of the faction of the Party of Regions. What's happening now is the destruction of one of the main institutions of power that ensure both Ukraine's independence and that is worthy of the protection of our interests. Unorthodox language at Security Council meetings; the mutual accusations of corruption, the betrayal of state interests at the highest level in the world co-workers from Ukraine -- all of this greatly reduces our capabilities, and the problem of illegal migration is getting worse today, and according to independent experts in Ukraine, there are already 6 million illegal migrants in the year. Energy security. External dependence is increasing. The economic security issue has already reached a negative balance of $18 billion in the past 2008. As a result, we demand: first, immediately – I appeal to all the pragmatic forces in Parliament – to approve a decision on the Supreme Council commission to oversee the Ukrainian Security Service and other authorities that should protect national interests.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u19	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u20	We urge all the pragmatic forces in Parliament from the faction of the Party of Regions to understand clearly when it comes to national security, there is no political color; when it comes to national security, it is necessary to unite all the pragmatic forces in Parliament, in society, in the state and to defend our national interests and security.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u21	Thank you. Lilia Grigorovich, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Prepare Andrey Shevchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u22	Lilia Grigorovich, MP “For Ukraine!” Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs, citizens of Ukraine! One of the great said: “No matter how tragic the past of a nation, no matter how sad its present, the future will be overcome.” Our present is really, really sad. More than four months have passed -- there is no anti-crisis program, there is no fixed financial and economic bloc, the pressure on small and medium-sized enterprises continues, including here, in this room: there are often short-term initiatives that small and medium-sized businesses don't know what to think. But, dear friends, all of this can be overcome, overcome by our future. Yesterday, with the participation of the factions of the Party of the Regions, “Timoshenko Block”, I apologize, “Lithuania Block” and Communists, unfortunately, the only satisfactory and really recent reform has been halted is external testing. I'm surprised that the faction led by the Academy of Sciences of Volodymyr Litwin, the faction led by the professor of economics, Mr. Janukovic, has stopped the future. In fact, in recent days the United Nations has determined that corruption in Ukraine is growing inconceivably. This room was occupied by those who initially accumulated capital with their scrolls, their services. Bribery, fraud, raiding became the foundation, bribery, and the foundation of government management. Today no one asks where 11 billion VAT is before the crisis? That's the way it's supposed to be. No one today asks why import revenues have become the main revenue part of the budget? Nobody's asking any more questions today, because corruption, total corruption. In order to strengthen this corruption, they are at the threshold of political corruption. The Yulia Tymoshenko bloc is once again ready, as some speakers say, to agree with the Party of Regions to make a two-party system through political corruption, a parliamentary republic that has not been promised to the electorate and has not been prescribed in their programmes. But all of this can be stopped, stopped by Ukrainian youth with an honest, dignified, Ukrainian children from Ukrainian villages, villages, towns who, through their knowledge and efforts for higher education, will change governance by the state. And so yesterday a terrible step was taken, so-called, humanitarian corruption. I, on behalf of the Group “For Ukraine”, and on behalf of the Ukrainian people, who are indignant, because many of the students, schoolchildren and students who joined the Parliament last year have called: abolish the politically corrupt humanist decision, vote in favour of accessing Ukrainian children to higher education.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u23	Yes, Andrew Shevchenko is transferring the right to speak to Sergei Sobolev. Please, the faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u24	Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, distinguished radio listeners, I would like to recall at least some objectivity in our colleagues' speeches, because when they say that no government initiative on the development of the village, I would like to recall only the last two decisions that have been taken on the initiative of the government by Parliament, supported by all of Parliament's actions. With respect to fixed taxes, eight dollars per hectare is the value of today’s fixed tax. For the first time in Ukraine, agriculture was adopted not for a year, not for two, but, in fact, allowing farmers to plan their trade, traffic, in fact, for the entire duration of the tax. And secondly, I would like to remind you that it was through the initiative of the government and the entire membership of Parliament that the decision was made that the value added tax remained entirely at the disposal of the villagers, and that this allows, again, not for a year or two to plan for agriculture, but, in fact, for the whole time. But I would like to dedicate my presentation to another subject. I would like to remind you how many spears have been broken in this session hall regarding judicial reform. And what do we get? There will finally be parliamentary hearings today on judicial reform in Ukraine. How did Parliament and the committee prepare themselves for these parliamentary hearings? Despite the fact that the orders of the Supreme Council of Mr. Lithuania were prepared two months before the parliamentary hearings were held, the working group was assembled only once an hour before the meeting of the working group. And yesterday's committee meeting, when parliamentary hearings and working regulations were recommended, was held in two minutes without warning to all committee members, well, I don't think any committee has had that practice. Next, today we will have the opportunity to listen objectively to the situation in the judiciary until 24 hours. I would like to ask those who planned such hearings: according to the Rules, parliamentary hearings are held from 3 p.m. to 18 p.m. I'm sorry who's going to continue to listen to all these things before 24 hours and why it's done, it's perfectly clear that in order for the state speakers to be able to speak in the first place, and everyone else wouldn't even be able to listen or be heard in this session room. So I have an appeal to the Chief of the Supreme Council, to the Regulatory Committee, which is a direct violation, which has been directly accepted in order to undermine parliamentary hearings on judicial reform. I would like to see that we do not have such things, and we have taken this into account when preparing such parliamentary hearings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u25	Thank you. Dear colleagues, statements by the national MPs with statements have been completed. I ask the secretariat to prepare the necessary assignments on matters that have been violated in the speeches of the national MPs. With regard to the parliamentary hearings that will take place today, your honorary colleagues, at 3 p.m., I would like to say that they will begin at 3 p.m. and will end at 6 p.m. at 6 p.m. As for the very many who are willing to take part and speak, we will do our utmost to have the Supreme Council of Ukraine listen so that the deputies do not hold another session, but listen to judges, scientists, practitioners, to improve the judicial system. Now we have every reason to move on to the issues set out in the schedule for today. Dear colleagues, we have an extremely large schedule for today, and we have agreed that we will make a proposal to the Conciliation Council in order to have the bills, in addition to the second reading, consider the reduced procedure so that we can complete our work schedule. So I'm going to put this proposal to a vote. Who, except for the second reading, would have to be done with a reduced procedure? Please vote. [[10:37:48]] For 201 Decision taken. The draft Law on the Ratification of the European Convention on Joint Cinematographic Production is under review. He reports: Minister of Culture and Tourism Vasil Volodymyrovich Vukun, co-reporter of Taras Crnowil.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u26	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! You are being reviewed by the draft Ukrainian law ratifying the European Convention on Joint Cinematographic Production. This convention is aimed at supporting joint cinematographic production as a means of creating and expressing cultural diversity on a European scale. In addition, the convention clearly regulates relations between the member countries of the convention on the issue of multilateral film production, defines the term “European cinematography”, the conditions for granting a joint production status film, the size of each producer's contributions, their rights, the conditions for the use of joint production cinematographic works, etc. Ukrainian cinematographers have experience of cooperating with cinematographers in European countries, but joint film projects have generally been implemented on a bilateral basis. The ratification of the convention will open up access for Ukraine to multilateralism, including the European film support mechanism, and will increase access for the national film industry to financial resources and markets in European countries. Ukraine's Ministry of Culture and Tourism will initiate the following step in the event of ratification by the Supreme Council of Ukraine: the procedure for Ukraine's entry into the European Foundation for the Support of Joint Film Production and the Rental of Cinematographic and Audiovisual Works, that is to say. Since the European Convention on Joint Cinematographic Production is one of the main instruments of the Council of Europe’s cultural policy and is given the most supportive regime, its ratification will ensure Ukraine’s participation in European cultural programmes of cooperation and will contribute to the further development of national cinematography. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u27	Thank you. From the committee, the first deputy head of the Committee in the foreign affairs of Taras Cnerovil has the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u28	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues - Ukrainian national deputies! Our Committee on Foreign Affairs reviewed the draft Law on the Ratification of the European Convention on Joint Cinematographic Production and unanimously supported this ratification. Similarly, we have a positive conclusion from the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, the Committee on Culture, the decision of the Committee on Budget Issues that ratification will not affect the expenditure or income portion of the budget, and some warnings from the Committee on Rules only on matters of introduction, but not on the substance of the project itself. This convention -- I ask you to listen to the figures themselves -- this is very important -- was done in Strasbourg in 92, the order of the President of Ukraine to join Ukraine was in 2002, ten years later. It was signed on behalf of Ukraine in 2004, and is only now being ratified in February 2009. Something's not quite right in the Danish kingdom again. Why it takes five years again to get the document that is convenient and useful to Ukraine to reach the Supreme Council again and again. It is not De Pardier’s wine to drink; it is to make a real, useful, useful product for Ukraine. So I'm going to ask the Minister of Culture and the representative of the President's Secretariat to figure out what the problem is. With regard to this particular, this covenant, Ukraine’s accession to it. It opens the way for us to co-operate with production and film production. The committee analyzed all the details, there's no unfavourable thing for Ukraine, it's made very detailed so that it can actually be used. This opens the way for us to join the European Foundation to support joint film production and to rent cinematographic and audiovisual works. It joins us in Europe’s cinematographic space and enables us to at least partially protect ourselves from that cheap, bad movie that is being aggressively introduced by Hollywood today. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u29	Dear colleagues! Is there a need to discuss? Please sign in. May I have the names of the national deputies on the board? Yuri Carmazin. The point is, the fact is that Jaroslav Suhi signed up there from the faction, if one is recorded, the other can't register.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u30	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear National Deputies! We've got a missing and dying motion picture studio, an Odessa film studio, a Yaltine film studio -- they're just dying. And so today, not grabbing a straw, for what we're being offered now -- ratifying the European Convention on Joint Cinematographic Production -- means not wanting to improve anything. Turn on the TV and you'll see. What will you see? Either American movies or Russian movies are two choices. We don't have a third. We don't have Ukrainian movies. This is why there is the hope that if this convention is ratified, then on the basis of, say, article 14 here at the time of granting the status of the joint production product, the competent authority of the party has the right to demand the singing of the manufacturer located in its territory, the production of the final version of the cinematographic work of one of the languages of the party. Next. The party that gives the director-in-chief will also have a prerogative. If we don't make a bigger fortune. This is according to article 15, this is also a positive – positive for our talented directors to be able to apply and invent themselves in this situation. And we have such talented people. The only question is, we don't have enough money. In fact, we lack only love for our people. And in fact, we only lack unity because we see things all the time. So I ask you to ratify this convention now. And I join the thought expressed here by Taras Viacheslavovich Cnerovil to inform us at the next meeting of the plenary so that you can give this commission to Volodymira Mikhailovich why this convention was rolling and not submitted to Parliament. Have them conduct a full-time investigation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u31	Thank you. I ask the secretariat to prepare relevant information with the chronology of this document on the Supreme Council. Vladimir Aleksandrovitch Yavorowski, faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u32	Regrettably, the honourable colleagues of the national MPs, the Ukrainian Parliamentarians, in their years of independence, have actually lost such an amazing field of art as film. We could have joined the history of world cinema long ago, starting with Alexander Long, our poetic Ukrainian film is both "The Shadows of Forgotten Ancestors" and "The Evening of John-Coop," and "The White Bird with Black Sign." We would have had an amazing, absolutely amazing direction in our cinematography. So today, actually, we're in a wee state in our movie, we've got a total of 5 million dollars in the budget for movies, which means we can make half of the film that has a few mass scenes and no more. Today we have about 50 films that have been started, but there is not enough money to finish them. Even filming after my "crisis" novel, called "The Day of the Conquered," is actually on the shelf because there is no money to give it a European level of sound. It's absolutely clear that the ratification of that document, it won't give us money, we have to make our own money for the movie this year. But what's going to open up the operational space and there's going to be an opportunity for our great filmmakers, and we really have them in Ukraine today, and I can call them Illenko and Belikov and Balayan and others. We have filmmakers who are able to make movies today. It is the ratification of this Agreement that will enable them to make films abroad. There is no doubt, therefore, that we will adopt the Law on the Ratification of this Document, and that this week we will be considering a bill that will be passed by the committee that I lead, on the issues of culture and spirituality, on the state support of the Ukrainian.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u33	Jaroslav Suhi is referring the right to speak to Hani Mikolayevna Herman, please, the faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u34	Dear fellow national MPs! Of course, the convention should be supported. It's too bad there's no convention for a culture minister, because we wouldn't support this convention under any circumstances. A colleague just said that there was no money to make a movie, and only 5 million dollars in 2009 were allocated to a movie. But two million dollars Mr. Secretary used to repair his office. If I'm wrong. [[B in m in s a l in]] If I'm wrong, Mr. Secretary can bring me to court, I'm ready to present to him all the records that came for repairing his office. I wanted to say the same thing, instead of being a movie developer, today's minister is constantly trying to take away and privatize the Rainbow Center. In doing so, they illegally want to release the director of this center, Mr. Mandrick. I want to say that this minister is constantly persecuting the head of the service of Chmul Hann Pavlovna, who has spent many years in the development of Ukrainian cinema. All of this is because he wants to set his humble frame and do whatever he wants in the field. So, dear colleagues, let's confirm, vote for the convention and do everything we can to create some kind of convention here to throw out the government of such ministers of culture that we have.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u35	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. A proposal for approval by the Committee on the draft Law on the Ratification of the European Convention on Joint Cinematographic Production, registration number 0117, is put to the vote. Please vote. [[10:50:15]] For 397 Decision taken. The draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Tajikistan on cooperation in the field of emergency prevention and the elimination of their consequences is under review. Reporter of the Minister for Emergency Situations and Protection of the Population from the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster, Vladimir Mikolaiovich Shandra. Correspondent is the first deputy head of the Committee in foreign affairs, Taras Viacheslavovich Czarnovil.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u36	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, international experience shows that the elimination of the consequences of emergencies, both natural and technological, often requires the mobilization of not only one country but also the involvement of aid from other countries. The proposed Agreement aims to implement the following main tasks: to provide mutual assistance in dealing with the consequences of emergency situations that have arisen; to coordinate and manage emergency relief; to implement an effective mechanism for the cross-border order; and to provide assistance to relief groups. The law regulates Ukraine’s relationship with the Republic of Tajikistan in the field of cooperation on emergency prevention and the elimination of their consequences. The agreement does not conflict with the current legislation of Ukraine, does not need to be amended, does not need to be further financed. With the possible assistance of the Government of Tajikistan in the event of an emergency, the source of funding may be the State Budget Reserve Fund or other sources not prohibited by Ukrainian legislation. The bill received a positive conclusion from the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Environmental Policy, Environmental Use and Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Ratification of this agreement will enhance the effectiveness of the issue of warning and elimination of life - threatening, human health, property, or environmental consequences of a natural disaster, a technological accident, or an international disaster. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u37	Thank you. Tarasse Viacheslavovich, please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u38	Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, a distinguished colleague of the National Deputies, the Committee on Foreign Affairs considered at its meeting and upheld the ratification of the law. draft Act on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Tajikistan on cooperation in the field of emergency prevention and the elimination of their consequences. There are positive conclusions from the Chief Research Administration, there is a positive decision by the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Use and Elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. The Rules Committee has made a similar observation here regarding the drafting of the document, and it would be very good for the government to see how documents are being drawn up, minor problems that in principle do not affect the substance, but they say that the approach to document processing is not always appropriate, not always responsible. Similarly, the Committee on Budgets concluded that this had no effect. The adoption of this ratification agreement does not affect the State budget of Ukraine. The committee is asking for ratification because today Ukraine is active in helping with the consequences of emergencies and cooperation with Tajikistan in this direction from a very long time ago. Traditions have been going on since Soviet times when we worked with the relevant services of the Republic of Tajikistan within the Soviet Union. Today, this cooperation is complicated every time, and each time it is necessary to accept additional information documents in order to implement one or the other. Clearly, the basic help can be extended by the Ukrainian side, which helps us to be sure. To get some influence in the Central Asian region, on the other hand, in Tajikistan, we will get a very useful methodological information and a certain workshop on specific ways of eliminating disasters and emergencies. So please support. The agreement is convenient for Ukraine, which is fully in line with the practice of international agreements.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u39	Dear colleagues, the report, the report was issued. Is there a need to discuss? You don't? Nobody insists? Then, with your consent, your honourable colleagues, the draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Tajikistan on Cooperation in the Field of Emergency Prevention and Elimination of Their Consequences is put to the vote. Registration number 0113. Please vote. [["10:55:47]] For 379 The law is passed. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Police Act on Improving Social Protection of Police Workers is under review. [[second reading]] Registration number 4037. The rapporteur is the head of the committee's subcommittee on law enforcement activities, Vladimir Stepanovich Malishev. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u40	Dear Vladimir Mihajlović, distinguished colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! On behalf of the families of the deceased militia, veterans and law enforcement officials, I thank you, distinguished colleagues, for supporting this bill on first reading. In the previous statement, I explained in detail the need to preserve the medical facilities of the Ministry of the Interior. I don't think it's necessary to say it again. The Committee was requested to prepare the bill for the following week, i.e. this plenary week. On 11 March, the Committee considered the draft on second reading. A comparative table of amendments has been drawn up, taking into account my amendments and the amendments made by the people's deputies of Sweden and Karpuk to ensure that the reinstatement of the medical facilities of the Ministry of Internal Affairs is not permitted. After agreement with the editorial, legal administrations, the table was submitted to the Supreme Council. On 16 March, however, the Committee received two additional amendments: from the people's deputies Stojko and Krutz. They are not included in the table, but are actually included. It was decided by the Committee. It is reflected in the text that the Committee proposes to adopt. Ivan Stojko's amendment does not apply to this bill; there is a very different problem: the problem of benefits. On 17 March, another amendment came: Yuri Carmazin. He also offered replacement services. It is also accounted for. Its amendment essentially means that the bill is rejected. The Committee decided otherwise at the meeting, and this part of the amendment was rejected. Consequently, in the final version of article 22, paragraphs 14 and 15, of the Police Act, employees of the internal affairs authorities and members of their families who live with them enjoy free health care in the health institutions of the Ministry of the Interior of Ukraine. Workers of internal affairs bodies who have been dismissed from service by age, illness or seniority shall be entitled to service by these institutions. No change in the subordination of health institutions, including sanatoriums, subordinated to the Ministry of the Interior, is permitted. Because we add two paragraphs, not one, as was the case on first reading. So the law has to be written down, add article 22 to new parts 14 and 15 and therefore part 14 of Part 16. Please take this note into account in the drafting of the law. The Committee recommends that the bill be adopted on second reading and as a law of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u41	Thank you. The honourable national deputies, the amendments that have been made at the proper time, have been considered, practically entirely taken into account. There is a suggestion: given the clarifications that have just been made, Malishev Volodymyr Stepanovich, adopt the law in second reading and in general as a law. No objections? This proposal is for a vote, the registration number of bill 4037. Please vote. [[11:00:18]] For 385 The law is passed. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we now need to consider the issue of inclusion in the agenda and, if included, consider the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Excise Assembly Rates on Tobacco Products. [[on Surplanned Income to the State Budget]] Please. Please, dear fellows! Alexander Efraemov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u42	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! It is not clear how this bill can appear on a day-by-day basis and who gave the command to include it. I would like to recall that, according to the Rules, article 107, “the bill is regarded as rejected if the proposed decisions to support it have not received the necessary number of votes of the national deputies. A bill or bill that repeats it in essence rejected by the Supreme Council cannot be submitted to the current one and the next. the next session’. So by offering what you are proposing, you are violating this rule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u43	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov is absolutely right to read the relevant rules of the Rules. At the same time, I would like to remind you, Your Honor, that yesterday we held meetings of the Conciliation Council. In general, it lasted about two hours, and this issue was discussed in particular. And then there was the request of the three factions to support the two factions with their undisputed support, in order to return to the consideration of the question of the inclusion in the order of the Law’s daily draft. Just a minute. Turn-on. It's all right, the committee head said, it's all right. And we made this agreed decision. So I'm essentially making that decision, because three factions, that was 226 people. If it weren't for him, I wouldn't have put it to the vote. So given the fair point that was made by the chairman of the regulatory committee, I would ask that if you did not support inclusion, then you would not insist on going back to that question again. Therefore, please note that the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending the Act on excise duty rates on tobacco products is put to the vote (for over-planned revenues to the State budget). Registration 4202, please vote. [[11:03:16]] For 229 We put it in the agenda. Please report: National Deputy of Ukraine, Yuri Romanovich Miroshnichenko. Oleg Valeriyovich Lyszko will be the narrator.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u44	Dear voters! Dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. In fact, this bill is not new to our parliament, it is a very serious problem. In this room, we talk a lot about the need to fill out the budget, that this bill will allow more than three billion dollars to be shared in our treasury, and perhaps even more, and thus allow us to solve many of the social problems that we need. Of course that's an argument. But I'd like to talk about something else that's actually proposed by this law? In fact, it is a big problem — the health problem of our citizens — because those who have cancer today and those who have a high chance of getting sick are smoking in the vast majority. And when it comes to children, teenagers, you probably know that almost 100 percent and not just boys, but girls also have cigarettes in their hands. And I ask myself and my colleagues, and when I signed this bill, I was guided, not by budgetary needs, but by how do I deal with this problem? As we can ensure today, the first generation growing up is that they do not succumb to the influence that tobacco is exerting today. There are two ways to do this: just ban it, but we've already done this to you, because it's forbidden to sell people up to 18 years of age cigarettes at all. And it doesn't work, it doesn't work anywhere in the world.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u45	Give me a chance to finish the thought, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u46	There's another way, it's a rise in the price of cigarettes. I think it would be wrong to give the promotions to those who sell them. We're proposing an increase in excise duty on these cigarettes, so Europe has gone, so today there's a movement of legislative reform in the post-Radians countries as well. And what this law proposes in its essence is to increase excise duty in order to make cigarettes more expensive and not be so affordable, first of all, for the growing generation as a means of damaging their health, especially that advertising is going very and very powerful. Identify yourself, but I believe that such a law must be passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u47	Please take the seat of the committee. Deputy Head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Oleg Valeriyovich Ljashko
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u48	Thank you. Dear Mr. Golovo, honourable colleagues, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget at its meeting on 17 March, discussed the draft law on the introduction into the Law of Ukraine "On Excise Assembly Fees on Tobacco Products", submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputies from various factions. The bill is designed to implement the provisions of the World Health Organization conventions on tobacco control in the area of tax and pricing policies on tobacco products, which are designed to contribute to the achievement of the overall health care that is expected to reduce the consumption of tobacco products, as well as to obtain additional revenues from the State budget. The bill provides for the introduction to article 1 of the Ukrainian Act on excise duty rates on tobacco products as part of the increase in excise duty rates, as well as the exclusion of articles 2 and 3, which provide for a step-by-step increase in excise duty rates on tobacco products by 2011 and an indexation of rates, and a minimum tax obligation on the payment of excise duty on tobacco products from 1 January 2013. According to the Ministry of Finance, additional revenues for 2009 will amount to more than 2 billion dollars if reconciled with other tax legislation. The Committee on the Results of the Review, the Committee on Budgets, approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of a draft law. He's the narrator. I want to say from myself, as one of the drafters of the bill. I am asking the Hall and especially the faction of the Party of Regions, which in December, almost entirely voted in favour of the similar Bill 3281, today to support. The price of the question is hundreds of thousands of lives of our people dying of cancer. 90 percent of those who die of cancer are smokers. In your faction, people who know these problems are not sensitive. And we're offering extra revenue, which is over 3 billion to target medicine, oncology, health insurance.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u49	Give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u50	and the most important other directions that today require national attention. We're actually doing two main tasks: God will give it, fewer people will smoke; and the second, we'll get additional revenue from the budget that will allow us to finance the damage that smoking does. [[The adoption of this bill]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u51	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Please register to express your position on this bill. I'd like you to put two on the board, two on the table. Vladimir Yavorowski, faction of the Block of Timoshenko. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u52	Vladimir Yavorowski, "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko", city of Kirovograd. Dear fellow national MPs! Dear voters! I have quit smoking for five or six years because I have a moral right to talk about it. I think the law is very important. I understand very well that one of these hard, heavy smokers is going to be insulted by the fact that cigarettes have gone on. By the way, I'm one of those people who doesn't always think that the price of such a heavy smoker is going to stop him there. But there is simply a series of things that every civilized normal state must do. You, and today we are open to the world, you are often abroad, and we understand very well that a pack of the same cigarettes, let's say in America, costs, if not twice as much as it costs us in Ukraine. As a result, the Bill is supported by the “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko”. Once again, it's very important and in order to fill our budget, you have to think about how to use this money wisely. Of course, first and foremost for the anti-advertisers of this whole thing, and this is really going to be the padding of our budget. The “Julia Tymoshenko Block” will vote in favour of the adoption of this bill by all its votes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u53	National Deputy Karpuk faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u54	Vladimir Karpuk, MP “For Ukraine!” Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Of course, we support the inclusion of this Law in the order of the day and its acceptance as a basis. As a doctor, I can say and repeat the many observations that are in the world and the many practices that are in the world in the fight against tobacco. If you look at those bills that are registered in the Supreme Council, almost every faction is the authors of a bill that aims to reduce smoking in Ukraine. But when it comes to a specific solution to this problem, for some reason these factions do not vote in favour of this Law. I mean, even though there's a doubt about the clarity of the Ministry of Finance's financial accounts, we still want this to be recorded in the protocol to be clearly calculated. Because if the adoption of this Law is able to complete a government fine of 3 billion dollars, I want to remind you that the total budget for the Ministry of Health has been allocated to the general fund of 5.2 billion dollars. Because if we adopt this law, it will be a major contribution to improving the health of citizens rather than filling the pockets of those who use low excise duties in Ukraine, using them to smuggle abroad. Over these 3 billion can be directed towards the implementation of state programmes, especially the protection of motherhood and childhood, the reduction of cardiovascular diseases, which account for 63 percent of deaths, the 140,000 deaths from cancer that are in Ukraine each year, and this will also really contribute to health care and the solution to the problem of budgeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u55	Vladimir Landik, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u56	Volodymyr, including Valentina. All right, all right.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u57	Well, Valentin Landik.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u58	You see, I don't understand the ideologies of the BUT faction. When we asked you to do an increase in excise duties all over the country, when, as in France, from each package, for example, the euro goes to cancer, you said it wasn't necessary, it was necessary to protect people because we're raising prices. You'll understand, these 3 billion bracelets that you're saying you're going to get the budget, you'll get them from your citizens, which your leader is so passionate about, and he says I'll never take anything from them. You want to take these 3 billion from our people. He who doesn't smoke, he doesn't care. For example, I don't smoke, I don't care. But a lot of people don't quit at the same time. But what about the import, because the ideology of your Cabinet of Ministers has always been on the verge of being imported. And now you want to get rid of the cigarettes. But now the cheapest, most inefficient, nicotine-sufficient, tobacco-free, and make the country digest and suffer even more from cancer. And this money, 3 billion of you, you've all been stealing, and you're going to wipe your pockets. And your Western electorate is now at some point, making a buck, taking out our cigarettes, which we have cheaper, quality, take them out, get them in the West, you want to cheer them up. You're just robbing your people with slogans that we're for him. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u59	Thank you. Dear colleagues, all who signed up, spoke. According to the Rules, there is one minute if there is an insistence on the factions that have not come forward. Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u60	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, we are surprised that the “Litwin Block” is surprised how frankly the tongue can rise now, how much cynicism it takes to say that this bill should not have been accepted. Everyone understands that the issue here is not even in price, although in Ukraine the price of cigarettes is much lower than in Belarus, Russia, I am not talking about the countries of the European Union anymore. This is a problem that affects tens of millions of people. And when we talk about health care, when we talk about the health of the nation, the health of the people, and so forth, should the cynical interests here go beyond what the next generation should be healthy? And that's why it's not about prices, it's about accessibility. The lower the price of harmful goods and no one will say that cigarettes are not harmful goods, the more teenagers' access to children, even those cigarettes that we can see today near schools, near colleges, and so on. We need to support this bill. That's fair.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u61	Yes, thank you. Dear colleagues, there are no other suggestions? So I'd like to have your attention. The proposal for a committee to adopt is based on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on excise duty rates on tobacco products. [[on Surplanned Income to the State Budget]] Registration number 4202. Please vote. Please vote. [[11:17:32]] For 235 Decision taken. [[Applause]] The factions? Please. Region Party – 1, “Timoshenko Yulia Block” – 154, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” – 60, Communists – 0, “Litvina Block” – 20. Dear colleagues, the draft Law on the Deprivation of Private Property Lands for Social Needs and Reasons for Social Needs is under review. Registration number 3682. The rapporteur is Deputy Minister for Environmental Protection, Movchan Mikola Mihajlovich. Correspondent is the head of the Committee's subcommittee on agrarian policy and land relations, Bevanko Valerij Fedorovich. And, dear fellows, one minute. We have these bills and the next related. Then we can do that if you agree, please pay attention! – that the report will be made under bill 3682 and 2028, and the discussion will be a joint one and the vote will be held separately. No warning? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u62	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The bill proposed for your consideration is necessary to provide for the needs of society as a whole, since the order of redemption of land for social needs and exclusion for reasons of social necessity at the legislative level is not regulated. First. The bill seeks to solve the problems that have arisen as a result of the solid breeding of the land of collective agricultural enterprises that have been carried out in many cases without taking into account the prospects for the development of areas: industrial facilities, state energy systems, supply of needs, mining of useful fossils, and the creation of eco - commerce, and so forth. The draft law provides for legal protection of the interests of landowners and the State. The principles of land alienation, the order of price redemption, the cases of redemption of land for the needs of society and forced alienation on grounds of social necessity, the authorization of executive authorities and local self-government authorities for the alienation of land and its order, form and order of compensation for the value of land that is alienated. The adoption of the law will create the necessary legal field in terms of land alienation for social and social needs, will provide conditions to increase the legal protection of the interests of land owners and the state, its economic security, and will be an effective tool to deal with the consequences of the global economic crisis in Ukraine. The bill will ensure timely preparation of the necessary infrastructure for the 2012 European Football Championship in Ukraine. Please support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u63	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u64	Volodymyr Mihajlovich, I propose a draft Law on State Land Inventory designed by the Government to determine the legal and organizational principles for carrying out work on State land inventory.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u65	One minute! No, it's a separate law, we'll look at it separately. We're now looking at laws 3682 and 2028, and it's going to be treated separately as a law. So please rest for now. Head of the Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations, Valérie Fedorovich Bevanzenko, please. And according to Bill 3682, and Bill 2028.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u66	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies, honored ones! At its meeting on 17 February 2009, the Committee considered the bill you proposed and notes that such a law is essential because the absence of redemption mechanisms at the legislative level by the State and the local authorities of such land areas makes it impossible to meet the needs of society as a whole. At the same time, it should be noted that the bill’s list of grounds for forced land secession on social grounds is insufficient. Yes, it is evident that it is appropriate to force the alienation of land for the placement of defence, national security, and cemeteries. I'll stop at the flaws of the bill. The bill does not regulate the reporting of landowners on land that is alienated when landowners do not own such property. Some laws need to be harmonized with other legislative acts, namely, the laws of Ukraine on national land documentation expertise, the assessment of land in part of the list of sites that are subject to mandatory state expertise, and the grounds for the mandatory conduct of an expert financial valuation of land. According to the committee, the bill should provide for the specificity of the purchase of built - up and unbuilt land for the stated purposes. Yet all of this can be further worked out in preparing the bill for the second reading. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine believes that the first reading of the bill can be adopted as a basis. In view of the above, the committee proposes a bill for registration number 3682 to be accepted as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u67	Yeah, one by one. You have everything then, don't you? And you said it the second time? Well, we'll be, we'll agree, please report 2028 and then we'll discuss them together and we'll vote separately.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u68	My dear colleagues, with regard to your proposal for the bill, first of all, I would like to point out that the existing rules of articles 19 and 20 of the Ukrainian Earth Code, which are proposed to amend the State's land fund, have identified nine categories of land and have defined the general criteria for setting and modifying their purpose. To date, however, Ukraine's legislation lacks the definition of "target land". Is it not understandable what is meant by this term: the direction of use of the earth or the list of specific ways of using it? And this is at a time when each of the land categories includes a significant number of directions to use it. So far, the question remains: Are the directions for the use of land as specific targets within one category, or is the concept of a target limited only by a category? The importance of the problem is also emphasized by the uneven practice of applying these standards. It is not uncommon to deal with this problem in a different way. These shortcomings in legal standards, along with the arbitrary interpretation of the various bodies of their content, have led to an uncontrollable change in the target ranges of significant land, the removal of thousands of hectares of land from agricultural trade, and the mass destruction of forest areas. Thus, the draft law is designed to resolve the issues listed above. The bill provides for amendments to Ukraine’s Land Code, as well as to the “Pro.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u69	Give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u70	The division of the subcategories is proposed in such a way that each of them has an appropriate composition. form the legal regime of the land. In doing so, land use in subcategories should be determined by the land user freely, except in cases where the lease provided for a specific type of functional land use. This, on the one hand, will provide additional opportunities for legal and physical persons to identify the most effective use of their respective lands, on the other hand, to promote land protection. The proposed changes: Article 20 of the Code provides for the establishment of a single system for both state and municipal property and for private property lands to change their purpose and to establish cases where such a change is permitted and by the decision of which specific executive or local government. With a view to preventing the use of the target land change procedure as a tool in a variety of shadow schemes, the bill proposes a rule whereby, after a decision has been taken by the authorized authority to change the target land area, a further change in its target assignment is allowed no earlier than ten years after the change in the target destination of the land removed for social needs or on grounds of social necessity.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u71	Yes, Valery Fedorovich, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u72	In the end, I would like to point out that we invite people's deputies in Ukraine, as well as representatives of the State Commission and other central executive bodies to improve the bill. Taking into account the necessity and significance of such changes, I ask that you support the bill and accept it as a basis. The Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council supports the bill. The committee considered the draft bill at its meeting and also proposes to adopt it as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u73	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Now, if you'd like to sign up for a discussion of Bills 3682 and 2028. Please. Valerius Pisarenko, faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u74	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Of course, although we have united the two bills, they still have a different meaning, each one of them can say that if the first law contains the standards that our nation has long been waiting for, it is clear that no serious investment projects will go before we know where we are going to build. Because this systemless distribution of land that has been going on in the state in recent years has now effectively made it impossible to build serious infrastructure projects like, by the way, the Kiev District Road, which has been talked about for ten years, and will talk for ten years, until we give the algorithm, however, for the State's sake, land plots can be devoted to such serious infrastructure projects. This is about Bill 3682, so of course we will support it, a serious bill needs serious, thorough work, but full support for the session room. With regard to Bill 2028, the situation is somewhat different, since the drafters propose to expand the list of areas and to establish a list under the target category. You know, and so today it's so bureaucratic to move this land from one category to another, that we'll soon give officials all the questions, including where to go and move around our land. I want to give you examples that in a few countries of the world, there is a system today where the target is the owner's business. We have today, when the state has deviated from the issue of land zoning and the decision as to what will be and where to stand, today the owner needs to be provided with certainty.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u75	Thank you. Complete your opinion, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u76	Today, it is necessary to help the owner reduce bureaucracy in this area and to help the owner use his land. So 2028, I'm asking you not to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u77	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania” faction. Get ready for Sergey Ribubu.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u78	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. The Lithuanian bloc will support adoption on the basis of this bill, some arguments, some motives, but more attention, because there is a need to change and that needs to be corrected in order to improve the option. First of all, I'd like to say that there's always been a need for alienation, preferably for a voluntary area, one or the other. Everyone understands this and remembers the recent experience of building bridges in Kiev, when because these issues were completely unresolved, there was a serious delay and hundreds of thousands, if not millions of people, were exposed to cross-sectional problems, let's say Dnipra. There are other problems involved, I would not want to, but it is always a state of emergency, for God's sake, military, military. Today, the need for preparation for the Euro-2012 was discussed, i.e. it is axiomatic that there are cases where land should be secluded or better purchased. Why should I, I think, support this bill, that any regulation is better than its absence. Any voluntary decision to take a person, usually a simple person, an object of his property, is much worse than that will be clearly established by the bill and the law. What I would like to pay attention to was the right thing to say is that I want to make it clear that today's Earth Code contains a list of relevant areas. This bill, which we are currently considering, adds “to the list of additional constructions and services of industrial enterprises that are strategically relevant for the development of regions without defining how certain enterprises are to be classified in this category. The question is, Who will apply an industrial enterprise to this category that can be taken from people? One. And second of all, I think we need to be more specific about how to define and set the criteria for delimitation when the land ransom is applied.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u79	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u80	The purchase of land for social purposes and the forced alienation of the land. As you can understand, not only is it legal but it is moral. It seems to me that there is something to work on in preparation for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u81	Sergey Rybuk, factions of the Party of Regions, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u82	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! It's not as disturbing that there are issues in the bill as we occasionally postpone the adoption of framework laws, fundamental ones, but we are now detailing, making many proposals on some of the changes to bills or new bills. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that it is in vain that you have just proposed and right to unify the consideration of these two bills. Because they're very related. And they're both coming out of the Earth Code, from the Land Protection Act, so here we're detailing a little bit, and it's going to produce a lot of new laws and laws. And in this way it complicates the process of implementation, and it makes it exactly the systemlessness in the use of land relations. As far as the bill is concerned, of course, we might need to put in parentheses, not just alienation, because it's fundamentally important. [[The Ransom of Lands]] And to specify what social needs are more detailed, especially that the social needs of alienation for the land of citizens and the territorial communities, which is the compulsory order, and including the name of the law. And secondly, by concluding that the purpose and change to the goal of land is also an extremely important and complex issue and that, regardless of which law we do not adopt, cannot be resolved if we do not finally agree, we will not adopt the Land Cadastre Act, on land protection. So let's maybe in the first reading accept, but taking these notes into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u83	Alexander Bondar, “Our Ukraine - People’s Self-Defense” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u84	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! These bills have very different meanings, so it is difficult to analyze both in two minutes. As far as the Cabinet Law is concerned, 3682. Of course, this law requires the Constitution and is of a positive nature because it determines the unspoken voluntary nature of the land ransom and the redemption of land only under the conditions of full prior compensation. It's to post democratic countries and they're saved here. But the bill defines two issues in the title and in the text that require different regulation. The first is social needs, that's when the land ransom takes place. And the motivations of social necessity are free of charge. So the rules on social necessity have to be removed from the law, and they apply to an entirely different legislative act, which is passed by the Cabinet of Ministers, which provides for the compulsory alienation of land in a state of emergency and war. This is a very different subject and needs to be considered separately by law. Therefore, this law of Kabmin should be supported in the first reading, including these comments. As far as the Law of Deputies 2028 is concerned, I believe that it should be sent for further processing. Apart from the regulation and the increase in corruption, he has nothing to offer. Therefore, the expansion of subcategories complicates the process of obtaining and changing the target destination of land areas, and the fine to 5,000 untaxed minimums is very large for middle citizens. And submitting additional documentation to the project will increase corruption and make it more difficult to obtain land. So I think the second bill of 2028 should be sent for further work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u85	Dear colleagues, we have completed our consideration of Bills 3682 and 2028. They are extremely sensitive. And here the MPs were right to make warnings. We need to make clear what social needs are and what alienation is. For example, when it comes to the social needs of building and building public authorities and local self - government bodies. I don't think that's going to hurt national security. Therefore, honourable colleagues are put to the vote by the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Law, registration number 3682, on the alienation of land for private property for social purposes and on the grounds of social necessity. Please vote. [[11:38:48]] For 397 Decision taken. And now you are being reviewed by the draft Act amending some of the legislative acts regarding the change of destination of land, registration number 2028, to be adopted on the basis of the committee's recommendations. Please vote. [[11:39:24]] For 177 The decision is not taken. Maybe this is how we try to put the vote to a re-read. If not, then the bill will be rejected. There is a proposal to re-read the draft Act amending certain legislative acts concerning the change in the destination of land, registration number 2028. [[11:40:03]] For 211 The decision is not taken, the bill is rejected. The factions, please. Region Party – 144, “Timoshenko Yulia Block” – 2, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” – 38, Communist factions – 27, “Litvina Block” – 0. What? Okay. Dear colleagues, I will now put to the vote a return to the bill registration number 2028. On the return to consideration. Please vote. [[11:40:53]] For 229 We're back on the bill. I am now voting for re-reading the draft law, registration number 2028, amending certain legislative acts to change the target destination of land. Please vote. [[11:41:26]] For 236 Decision taken. A draft Law on State Land Inventory, registration number 2765, is being announced for consideration. Reporter: Deputy Minister of Environmental Protection Movchan Mikola Mihajlovich, co-rapporteur, Head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, Valeriy Fedorovich Bevzenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u86	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The Ukrainian National Land Inventory Act has been developed by the Government to determine the legal and organizational principles for carrying out work on State land inventory. The bill defines the concept of “State land inventory” – the content, direction and stage of state land inventory. The authority of the authorities in the field of state land inventory has been determined. The other one. The reasons for the conduct of State land inventory, the formation of information in the conduct and processing of public land inventory materials, and the financing of work for violations of legislation in the field of public land inventory are identified. The implementation of the bill will ensure: firstly, that landowners and users are provided with local self-government authorities and executive authorities with full and objective information on the legal status of land, the number of which is both relative to individual areas and within the administrative and territorial units and the State as a whole. Next. The identification of land that is used without proper land-based documents and does not carry out State registration or use on. Not for a purpose. Analysis of the Earth cadastre and documentation with a view to determining its authenticity, completeness, the conformity of existing legislation, the creation of tax base information. In view of the above, please support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u87	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Valérie Fedorovich, from the committee, please express your point of view.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u88	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The Agrarian Policy and Land Relations Committee of September 30, 2008, considered a draft Ukrainian law on State land inventory, registration number 2765, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers, which states that the bill in its entirety has a strong methodological character and is aimed only at regulating the order in which work is done, leaving the order in which issues can be resolved by addressing the identified shortcomings. The main problem for the time being is the financing of public inventory work, and this bill does not solve the problem at all. In addition, the committee determines that when the law is applied, serious problems may arise, since, for example, the bill does not determine what data is of priority when applied. The data are given in the law-making documents or data obtained from State land inventory. The bill proposed in section 1 of article 16 of the bill to grant to natural and legal persons who exercise land-based access rights to land owned and used by others may create preconditions for serious abuse of this right, violation of the rights of landowners and land users. The proposed legislative initiative and the draft law clarifying land rights restrictions in the process of carrying out public land inventory work are unacceptable. The change in the amount of land rights restrictions without the consent of the owner of the area cannot be made on the basis of one - on - one decisions of the executive or local government, as part of the first article of article 110 of the Ukraine’s Land Code, such restrictions are imposed in terms of the scope provided for by law or contract. Also unacceptable is the offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u89	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u90	Article 4 of the bill approves the results of the inventory, not by the State authority, but by the landowner. Such a situation can lead to the legalization of the arbitrary seizure of the earth. In view of the above, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a bill on State land inventory to be sent to further the subject of the legislative initiative. [[Registration number 2765]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, please sign up to discuss the bill. Please put the names of the people's deputies on the board. Alexander Bondar, “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u92	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! I want to remind the MPs that the issue of land inventory is a fundamental condition for the introduction of the market for land and the introduction of transparent and open mechanisms in the market for land. The settlement of the issue of State land inventory must be settled, and the data of state land inventory should form the basis for the creation of an information base for the management of the State’s land inventory, land relations regulation, rational use and protection of land resources, taxation, and so on. The bill is a prerequisite for creating an effective, transparent land market in Ukraine. The bill defines the content, purpose, direction, and stages of state land inventory. The mandate of the authorities in the field of State land inventory, the rights and obligations of the inventory parties has been determined, the grounds for carrying out State land inventory, the formation of information on the conduct and processing of state land inventory materials, and the financing of work and the responsibility for violations of legislation in the field of public land inventory. In addition, the status and content of the technical documentation have been addressed. If we really want transparent, open mechanisms, the earth’s market, information on who owns the land, who owns it, we must adopt this law in the first reading, settle all outstanding issues and confirm it as part of a transparent market for the earth’s machinery. So I suggest you support this bill in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u93	Eugene Kirilchuk, Timoshenko Street.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u94	Thank you. Eugene Ivanovich Kirilchuk, Timoshenko Street. Dear colleagues, this is an urgent matter. The fact is that there are self - indulgences today, there are illegal rings around the earth today. And one of those 20 laws that is missing from the Earth Code must be passed. Let's take a step forward, maybe before second reading we need to simplify the situation a little bit, take out all the unnecessary reconciliations and stuff. But we have the opportunity to make a second read of it seriously. But you can see that it's made today with the earth and around it, what the rings are doing and how much abuse there is, how much wild money goes there. And of course, those landowners who are supposed to be there do not yet have legal documents. Because of this, I believe that earth’s inventory is urgent, and we should definitely vote on the first reading today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u95	Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u96	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The project needs to be further developed to define the principles of State land inventory. This is the obligation to conduct it independently of the legal regime of land, the reliability and completeness of the determination of the legal status of the quantitative and qualitative characteristics of land areas, the consistency and standardity of procedures, the periodicity of conduct, and so on. We believe that appropriate legislation should extend to the inventory of territories within the state border of Ukraine as a whole. These are state inventory. Regional inventory is within separate administrative and territorial units. Local inventory of enterprises, institutions, and organizations. In view of this division of land inventory, it would be useful to establish the periodicity of the land. In addition, the project requires a more detailed definition of the objects of inventory. An inventory of land areas and rights, including land plots, pies, and so on, can be added to this list. An appropriate list can be used to identify persons who actually own and use land without forming rights in accordance with law, foreign legal persons, foreign citizens, and so forth. Note that the project needs to deal more fully with the relationship between the customer and the contractor. In particular, it should be borne in mind that the relevant legal and natural persons acquire the status of a land surveyor only after the contract has been commissioned and concluded. We propose to align this bill with the Ukrainian Land Administration Act with the aim of avoiding duplication of the law in force. With this in mind, the faction of the Party of Regions proposes to reject the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u97	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the factions that were signed up, took the floor. Please, the faction is right. One minute, Vaszczuk Katerina Timofievna, because she did not speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u98	Katerina Vaschuk, Block of Lithuania. Dear colleagues, in fact, today this bill is not just in time; it is screaming. In our preelection program, one of the main points was to conduct an inventory of the entire country in Ukraine. You tell me what more wealth Ukraine has than the land. And today, ask a loving structure: Do we have a clear picture of who, where the land belongs? We don't. Today, this bill is imperfect, it is not just to be reworked, it is to be seriously cleaned, it is to be seriously worked out with a governmental approach to determine the fate of each land to which it belongs, the right under which the documents confirm this right, and the order of the land in Ukraine, otherwise the land legislation overtakes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u99	Dear colleagues! The bill is closed. The committee proposes that the subject be returned to the right of legislative initiative for further development, together with the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, which can be adopted as a basis. In accordance with the Rules, the proposal for adoption is based on the draft Law on State Land Inventory. Registration number 2765, please vote. Based on the base. I remind you, it's a government bill, respected colleagues. [[11:54:27]] For-46 The decision is not taken. What's in factions here is clear. Please, by the factions. Here you see the faction of the Party of the Regions - 0, "Club of Yulia Timoshenko" - 2, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" 24 - communists - 0, "Club of Lithuania" - 20. The second proposal to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further development, that is, to return to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Please let's vote. We vote on the return of the subject of the right to legal aid. Please identify yourself. [[11:55:22]] For 213 The decision is not taken. To read again. Please vote. [[11:55:44]] For 208 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Dear colleagues, we need to start considering the bill and at the same time a break. Maybe we'll do it that way, please. Let's call it a 30-minute break, until 12 o'clock 25, and I'm thinking here that I have, 56, I have electronics. So up to 12 hours, 26 minutes are called off.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u100	Invite the national deputies to the session room and we will continue our work. Dear colleagues! A draft Law amending certain Ukrainian laws on the licensing of the sale of natural gas by natural gas operators is being announced for consideration. Registration number 2225. The rapporteur is Head of the National Electricity Regulatory Commission, Valerius Mikolayovich Calchenko, co-rapporteur of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, Natalia Jurijovna Kraljevska. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u101	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Ukraine's draft Law amending certain Ukrainian laws on the licensing of natural gas sales by the National Commission for the Regulation of Electricity for the Implementation of the Presidential Decree of 2 August 2007 and the corresponding mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The bill was approved by the Supreme Council Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship in May 2008. According to the Ukrainian State Budget 2008 Act and the Ukrainian State Budget 2009 Act, the National Commission on Electricity Regulation approves the price of own gas for enterprises whose share of the state in the fixed fund exceeds 50 per cent. This situation can only be fully implemented if the regulatory influence of the State on the operation of gas - producing enterprises is extended by licensing the activities of natural gas operators for their own production. At the same time, the regulatory authority acquires the right to retain information from licensees that is necessary to approve the economically sound price of the sale of own gas, as well as the power to control the licensed activities of these enterprises. Including the control of the purposeful use of the funds approved at the price of the sale of natural gas for its own use. In view of this, a draft law has been developed and introduced to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The draft Act provides for amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Natural Monopolies, which will refer to the sale of own-use gas to adjacent markets regulated under this Act. As well as changes to the Ukrainian Law on Licensing of Certain Economic Activities, sales of natural gas of its own will be attributed to the commercial activities that are subject to licensing. As a result of the adoption of the draft law, they improve the state system.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u102	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u103	As a result of the adoption of the draft law, it will improve the state regulation system, promote transparency in the decision-making process, at the approved cost of own-use gas, include a well-founded investment component for the development of the sector, and allow for the optimization of the retail prices of natural gas for the population whose main component is the price of own-generation gas. Please support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u104	Yes, thank you, have a seat, please. Head of the Royal Natala Juryevna Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u105	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The Industrial Regulatory Policy and Enterprise Committee, at its meeting on 16 April 2008, considered a draft law amending certain Ukrainian laws concerning the licensing of sales by natural gas operators of their own production, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers. [[Registration number 2255]] The purpose of the bill is to lay the legal framework for the licensing and sale of natural gas for its own production. Determination of the price of sales obtained by a natural gas licensor in monitoring compliance with licensing conditions. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council considers that, as a result of the first reading, the bill can be adopted as a basis, taking into account the comments and proposals made. In the consideration of Bill No. 2255, members of our committee indicated that the bill had been drafted in compliance with the requirements of article 3 of the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2008 and amending certain Ukrainian legislation. The law describes a range of enterprises that sell natural gas by their own production at the price approved by the National Electricity Regulatory Commission of Ukraine for each operator. These include enterprises whose state share in the statutory fund exceeds 50 per cent, as well as economic society, whose shares are more than 50 per cent of which are in the statutory funds of other economic societies, whose control package is also owned by the State. The provisions of this article can only be implemented if a form of State regulation such as licensing is applied. At the same time, the regulatory authority acquires the right to receive from licensors the information necessary for the approval of economically sound gas sales prices. This creates a natural gas resource used for the needs of the population. The regulatory authority will also be able to monitor the targeted use of the funds put into the sale price of natural gas for its own production. In view of the above, the Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u106	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u107	Adopted a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the licensing of the sale by natural gas operators of their own production, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for consideration and to propose its adoption as a basis. [[Registration number 2255]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u108	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the discussion. There's a recording going on. We have a committee written down by the Committee on Regulatory Policy. And industrial politics. Please, Alexandrovska, Supper and Martinenko. Alla Alexandrovska.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u109	Thank you. Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction. The Communist faction will support the adoption of this law on first reading. We believe that the issue is very relevant – the question of the price of gas of its own production, and we understand that without licensing it will not be possible to ensure State control over how price formation is produced and at what price gas is actually delivered to consumers. But I would like to draw attention to one more question. As far as I know, we are currently in Ukraine, there is no register of wells, i.e. wells in which gas is extracted. Thus, we do not have a clear record and control of the volume of gas that is being produced in Ukraine. It is the licensing of activities for the sale of those entities in which the State participates. It seems to me that there is a need to strengthen State control, including price formation and the amount of gas produced by business entities, by legal entities in which the State does not participate. And I would like to have these issues clarified by second reading, how the State will regulate the prices of all the gas produced in Ukraine. Only in this case can we be sure that we can protect the interests of Ukrainian citizens, that we will be able to provide reasonable prices for the gas that consumes our population and, by the way, our thermal energy. Therefore, on the first reading, we will support such a bill, and on the second reading, of course, we need to look carefully and make adjustments accordingly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u110	National Deputy Evening, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u111	Evening, faction of Party regions. I want to say that licensing, both for natural gas and coal, is a good thing in our State. But today, when we are considering this bill, I think it needs to be finalized because we are under a monopoly, and all these nuances need to be included so that the State does not control it. We do have market relations here in the state. I would simply like to advise the Chairman of the Royal Committee, because it supports the words of Ukrainian entrepreneurs, in the words of both the State of benefit and entrepreneurs, because today stone coal is supplied only to the State, and entrepreneurs who acquire and have private mines suffer from the fact that some entrepreneurs, in coffee shops, with BUTU, support the State and thereby wash money on mining equipment. That is why this law needs to be finalized and put back into the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u112	Thank you. Mikola Martinenko, faction "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u113	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, what do we think if we introduce one more license, which means, what do you think about for sale, will this gas production increase in Ukraine or not? In a period of crisis, when we switched to world prices for imports of natural gas into our nation, we are now introducing one sales license. How this procedure will then be implemented, nobody understands, and we will thus lead to stagnation of the entire sector. Today, there is even a problem in those companies that are controlled by the state, which are actually producing more than 90 percent of the gas, and they are already in the process of producing gas. Therefore, respectable colleagues cannot be strongly supported. So I would like to remind everyone that we, for example, ratify the Energy Charter, we should not forget that, but the bill is in conflict. We should not forget that we are adapting to EU legislation and so on. So the position of the Fuel and Energy Committee, we've been looking at this bill, and we're absolutely not supporting it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u114	Dear colleagues, the draft law has been discussed. Offer. No other comments? The committee's proposal is to adopt the law as a basis. And this proposal is about voting. On the basis of the draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the licensing of sales by natural gas operators. Registration number 2255. [[12:39:10]] For-54 The factions. Region Party – 0, Timoshenko Yulia Block – 27, Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense – 0, Communists – 27, Litvina Block – 0. Well, the only thing left to do is vote for re-reading bill 2255. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:39:45]] For-142 The decision is not taken, the bill is rejected. The draft law supplementing article 3 of the Ukrainian Law on the Principles of National Regulatory Policy in the Field of Economic Activity is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 2323]] The rapporteur is Head of the State Commission of Securities and Stock Market Baluk Anatoly Ivanovich. Correspondent is Head of the Committee on Industrial, Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship Natalia Jurijovna Královska. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u115	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! For your consideration, a draft Ukrainian Act amending article 3 of the Ukrainian Law on the Principles of National Regulatory Policy in the Field of Economic Activity is proposed. The need for adoption of the bill is due to a settlement of the differences and contradictions of Ukrainian legislation on regulatory policy issues in the implementation of the national regulation of financial services markets. Taking into account the specificity of financial markets, which is the rapid change in the situation in financial markets in the current crisis, there is a need for regulators to react promptly to these changes by adopting appropriate regulatory acts. The aim of the Ukraine project is to provide financial services markets regulators: the State Securities and Stock Markets Commission and the State Financial Services Markets Regulatory Commission of Ukraine – the ability to quickly regulate public financial services markets to protect investors' rights and regulate the relationship between owners of securities. The project is intended to identify items that are regulatory rules, regulations and regulations of the State Commission of Securities and Stock Markets and a specially authorized executive authority in the field of regulation of financial services markets. Other legal and regulatory acts of the Commission under the Ukrainian Act on the Principles of National Regulatory Policy in the Field of Economic Activity are proposed to be defined by non-regulation acts. For example, the State Securities and Stock Market Commission, according to its tasks, establishes licensing conditions for the conduct of professional activities in the stock market, establishes rules, requirements and standards for the submission of administrative data to professional participants in the securities market, and ensures the creation of an information database on the securities market. It should be noted that all of these are not regulatory acts. Similarly, normative documents that regulate the filing of administrative data or the order of other administrative actions are not a regulatory act. Thus, most of the State Commission's regulatory acts on securities do not regulate the order of participants in the market of securities of their economic activities, but are aimed at the formation and enforcement of States.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u116	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u117	and the functioning of the securities market. I would like to point out that this bill is in agreement with the National Committee on Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship without notice, and is generally supported by the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This bill is supported by the Ministry of Justice. I'd like to support you, distinguished national MPs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u118	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Natalia Yuriovna, position of the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u119	Respectable Vladimir Mihajlović, distinguished colleagues, Industrial, Regulatory Policy and Enterprise Committee at the meeting on 21 May 2008, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Act supplementing article 3 of the Ukrainian Act on the Fundamentals of Public Regulatory Policy in the Field of Economic Activities, No. 2323, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers. The purpose of the bill is to resolve conflicts in Ukrainian regulatory policy legislation in the public regulation of the financial services market. It is proposed that contradictions be resolved by taking regulatory action in the markets of financiers other than the issuance of regulatory acts out of the scope of the Act on the Fundamentals of Public Regulatory Policy in the field of economic activity. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in its conclusion of 16 May 2008, notes that the draft law may be adopted as a basis for consideration on first reading, taking into account the comments and proposals made. During the discussion of Bill No. 2323, the members of the Committee supported the Cabinet of Ministers' proposal. The Committee agrees that there is a need to improve the efficiency and speedyness of the State Securities and Stock Market Commission and the State Financial Services Market Regulatory Commission in their activities. The Committee on Industrial Policy and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship has adopted a decision: a draft bill of the Ukrainian Act supplementing article 3 of the Ukrainian Act on the Fundamentals of Public Regulatory Policy in the Field of Economic Activities, number 2323, to be submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and proposed to be adopted as a basis. Please support the Committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u120	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up to express your position on this bill. Please put the names of the national deputies who are registered on the board. Xenia Lapina, please, the faction of "Our Ukraine People's Self-Defense."
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u121	Thank you. Leapina, group “For Ukraine”. I would like to point out that this is perhaps such a rare case when I really support the amendments to the Law on the Principles of State Regulatory Policy. It doesn't harm the whole concept of regulatory policy, and more than that, it actually sorts out relationships, clearly dividing relationships that are relations of a regulatory nature, and that are not relationships of a regulatory nature. It is quite symptomatic that this order of conduct has been initiated by regulators such as the Securities Commission, who are aware of their assignment and in which special legislation is clearly regulated. So actually, I think that's a positive trend. However, I would like to point out that the bill, however, needs to be redrafted before the second reading. We need to specify a low standard. And we're actually willing to do it in the committee, to look at it and work professionally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u122	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there are no other reasons for this? The proposal for a committee on adoption is then put to the vote on the basis of draft Law 2323 supplementing article 3 of the Ukrainian Act on the Principles of State Regulatory Policy in the Field of Economic Activity. [[12:46:36]] For 243 Decision taken. A draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine on the principles of State policy in the field of licensing, registered number 2391, has been announced for consideration. The rapporteur is the deputy head of the State Committee on Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship of Trelyaków Sergey Ivanovich, co-rapporteur of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship of the Royal Natalia Jurijovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u123	Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! This bill is aimed at solving some of the problems that have arisen from research in the 10-year use of this project. One of the main problems in times of law is the output of certain types of activity from under the law. This is first of all the adoption of special licensing procedures, additional requirements for operators, and the narrowing of the possibilities of operators, and the opacity of the licensing processes themselves. The idea of amending the law is to keep the specifics of special laws in the same order of licensing. To this end, it is suggested that the principle of the principle of applying the rules of the basic law regarding the order of licensing should be applied to specific laws. This will allow you to stop constant attempts to get certain activities out of license. Secondly, for the purpose of unwarranted expansion of the activities to be licensed, it is proposed that licensing be introduced only if the introduction of a given activity cannot be regulated by valid regulatory acts. Thirdly, the draft law proposes to reduce the number of commercial activities subject to licensing. First of all, it refers to land-based space infrastructure, which refers to the exclusion from the list of types of farming activities of a duplicative type of activity with regard to the organization and maintenance of totalizers of gaming establishments. Thirdly, it's to exclude what's subject to the double regulation of state licensing, i.e. the certification of licensing. The next point is to exclude the licensing of chemical power sources and import of chemical power sources, which means batteries. The fourth point is that we should pay particular attention to economic activity.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u124	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u125	Thank you. And the fourth moment is a bill that's very codifying, that changes be made to licenses, that checks and also that offers are made by the STOs, that they bring requirements to the STOs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u126	Thank you, please sit down, Natalia Royal, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u127	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The Committee on Industrial Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, at its meeting on 21 May 2008, considered a draft law amending certain Ukrainian laws on the principles of State licensing policy introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers. Registration number 2391. The bill amends the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain economic activities and the Ukrainian Law on Chemical Sources of Energy. These laws are thus in line with the provisions of the Ukrainian Act on Basic Principles of Public Oversight and Control in the Field of Economic Activities. The objectives of Bill 2391 are to reduce the list of activities to be licensed and to introduce new licensing approaches that make it impossible to unduly maintain the licensing conditions of new business activities and to remove activities from the scope of the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain economic activities. Improving the licensing of economic activities for cryptographic protection, information related to the fulfilment of Ukraine's WTO obligations. Many post-Soviet countries are now working on streamlining and reducing licensing lists. For example, in Russia, from 125 lists of products subject to licensing to 103 in Tajikistan from thousands to 72 have begun to do so today in Ukraine. In Ukraine, more than 70 activities are licensed, but the problem is not always in number, and it is important that licensing is often introduced or abolished in a completely chaotic manner in the scope of the licensing law. Sometimes the lifting of the licence itself is justified, as in the case of freight transport services for taxis, sometimes less justified but difficult to track. As such, licensing by whole industries such as tobacco production, radio and telephone services.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u128	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u129	Trade, regulated by individual laws and licensing within these industries are not, for some reason, included in the list contained in the Act on the licensing of certain economic activities. The Committee therefore categorically supported the bill and, in its deliberations, the members of the Committee stressed that the bill was aimed at simplifying the procedures for licensing business and reducing the number of activities to be licensed, limiting excessive administrative control in the area of licensing. Its adoption will also contribute to creating an enabling environment for increased investment activities. We have discussed this bill with unions and business associations, and everyone also clearly supports the bill. We understand that the Cabinet of Ministers is now taking the first steps to bring about and bring to normal common legislative principles the licensing system in our country. We ask the people's deputies, the Supreme Council to support this bill, because without the reform needed to be done in the area of licensing, it will be very difficult for us to create a free market where the normal market conditions that our country needs today during the crisis are more than ever. And we also need to hit the bribe system today. And the withdrawals, which unfortunately exist in the licensing process today.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u130	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Please sign up for the performance. On the board, I ask you to bring out the names of the national MPs who are registered. Mikhail Checht's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u131	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The bill proposes to introduce a number of changes to the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of agricultural activity and on chemical sources of electricity, which are aimed at further improving the order of licensing and reducing the types of activities that are subject to licensing. In the paragraph proposed to complement part one of article 3 of the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of economic activity, it should be specified that licensing should be introduced in the absence of other measures of public regulation to ensure the proper protection of the rights and legitimate interests of citizens and operators, as well as of civil security. But this observation could be taken into account in the process of furthering it to a second reading. And the summary conclusion is that the Party of Regions is proposing to support the committee's decision and to adopt the law in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u132	Xenia Lapina, “Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u133	Thank you. Lappina group “For Ukraine”. I want to point out that this law is very important, especially in times of crisis. Because this law actually reduces administrative barriers to business development. It introduces a very good principle: State regulation must be one but effective. We have a very different principle today, and there are dozens of different regulations for the same legal activity, all of which are not effective, and this leads to the toning and booming of the shadow economy. This principle is wrong and we have to go from wrong to right, and this is a step in the direction of right principles. And I want to draw attention to one very important detail: this is the first bill in which the public authority proposes to reduce its powers. The State party proposes that the licensing conditions be confirmed by a non-double order, as today, which is in fact an exotic situation in the authorities of the State, when there are actually two signatures of two persons, two persons in the status of minister under one act; and they propose to introduce a normal principle of regulatory policy; the licensing authority approves its order, but agrees with the relevant body of regulatory policy, i.e. the State Enterprise. I think it's a very useful and very right step to meet up with the order in government regulation, so I'm asking everyone to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u134	Dear colleagues! The bill is closed, the Committee's proposal to accept it as a basis. The draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine on the principles of State policy in the field of licensing is therefore put to the vote. Registration number 2391. [[12:57:06]] For 373 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! Two factions, the But faction and the faction of "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" have called for a 30-minute recess under the Rules. Maybe you'll make a statement about what reason you're going to make, and we'll keep working? Please, Sergey Shevchuk. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u135	For the sake of, indeed, the work of the Supreme Council we did not take a break for 30 minutes, but we would like to announce the following content. Today, a delegation of national deputies from all factions came to Moscow to participate in the meeting of the Inter-Parliamentary Cooperation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation. A previous meeting of a similar commission took place last year in Odessa. Let me remind you that at the same time, a joint decision was taken to eliminate the lists of parliamentarians that were announced by the relevant non-grat personnel. This decision was, in our opinion, a spirit of cooperation, the collegiality of the highest representative bodies of Ukraine and Russia. Today, however, a covert incident took place at the border crossing with regard to the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of Oleg Belarus. During the process of the passport control of the Ukrainian national deputy, a delegation headed by the Deputy Chief of the Supreme Council, Alexander Lavrinović, was set aside to study closely and verify documents, such as the diplomatic passport of the Ukrainian national deputy. During an inadequate period of time, Russian border guards studied documents in paws, without any reason or explanation, provoked a demeaning procedure of waiting for questioning and various suspicions, and in fact advised their superiors whether to allow the head of the Committee for Foreign Affairs of the Supreme Council of Ukraine a pass in the territory of a neighbouring and friendly state. Only under the threat of a session of the interparliamentary commission, which is still called a group of friendships by the appropriate services of the Russian Federation, have they mercifully granted permission to cross the border. I remind you, my fellow Members, that Oleg Belarus, as an experienced and recognized diplomat in the world circles, as vice-president of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly, has never allowed himself to speak or to be regarded as hostile to Russia. His only fault, in paws, was that Oleg Belarus was the author of the resolution of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly on the Holocaust. This resolution was adopted last year at the annual session of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly in Astanak, which was opposed by individual delegations. [[Kazakhstan]] At that time, the author was promised a resolution on unpleasantness. Of course, organized similar unpleasantness and Oleg Belarus, and the entire Ukrainian delegation will survive, but a groundless provocation towards a well-known Ukrainian diplomat requires decisive action from the Ukrainian Ministry of Foreign Affairs and, perhaps, with some preventive action from the Ukrainian Embassy in Russia. In expressing our process, we also demand clarifications and apologies in order to avoid such distresses in the future.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u136	Thank you. I, my esteemed colleagues, think on behalf of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, will make an appropriate request to find out all the circumstances, and so that such incidents in the relationship between our countries will no longer be repeated. I think it's going to be the right approach. Dear colleagues, the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on licensing for development, manufacturing and implementation of technical and other rehabilitation facilities, registration number 3287, is being considered. Reporter – Minister of Labour and Social Policy Ludmila Leontievna Denisova, co-rapporteur – Head of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship Natalia Jurijovna Královska. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u137	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The prosthetic orthopedic aid to individual population categories is provided by 48 prosthetic orthopedic enterprises of all forms of ownership. Of these, 16 are state-owned and time-consuming enterprises. In accordance with article 26 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities, prosthetic and orthopedic enterprises carry out their activities on the basis of their licensing. Ukraine's law on licensing certain types of farming does not provide for the licensing of prosthetic or orthopaedic aid. In view of the need to reconcile the Ukrainian Act on the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine and the Ukrainian Law on the Licensing of Certain Economic Activities, a bill has been drafted. In particular, it is proposed to amend article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of economic activity by supplementing the list of activities subject to licensing, the provision of prosthetic or orthopaedic services. Article 26 of the Ukrainian Disability Rehabilitation Act states that the development, production, implementation of technical and other means of rehabilitation that compensates or restores the body’s functions, services, and maintenance of the specified product are carried out. Economic operators, their separate structural units, not prosthetic orthopedic enterprises. This is related to the fact that the concept of a prosthetic orthopedic enterprise limits other operators to the possibility of carrying out activities in this field. The adoption of the bill will allow the licensing of prosthetic services in order to confirm the conformity of operators with the basic criteria and guarantees of high quality of their production. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u138	Head of the Royal Natalia Juryevna Committee. Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u139	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Bill 3287, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers, is designed to resolve the contradictions that exist today between the laws on the rehabilitation of persons with disabilities in Ukraine and on the licensing of certain economic activities. The drafters point out that the Law on the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine provides for the licensing of prosthetic and orthopaedic assistance. However, as you know, the Act on the licensing of certain economic activities contains a list of activities to be licensed. But this list, covering some 70 types of prosthetic orthopaedic activity, does not contain assistance. While activities that should not be licensed are often licensed on the basis of the principles of State policy in the area of licensing. I recall that these principles include the protection of the rights, legitimate interests, life and health of citizens. At the same time, the health of the most vulnerable people, persons with disabilities, we are not protecting ourselves today from unquality products. The drafters propose to eliminate the contradictions between the laws by listing the licensed activities for the development, production, implementation, repair of technical and other means of rehabilitation and the provision of services for the maintenance of these rehabilitation facilities. We, the Committee, support this proposal and propose to adopt the bill as a basis. Thus, we continue to establish order in the licensing system and take another step towards the legislative order. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u140	Please sign up if you would like to share in the discussion. Please put the names of the people's deputies on the board. Yuri Carmazin. The faction “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u141	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. Dear national MPs, among many of the laws we have, unfortunately too many differences, and sooner or later we have to correct these differences in one way or another. There are two laws, the same two normative acts, the same legal force – the laws of Ukraine “On the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities” and “On the Licensing of Certain Economic Activities”. Both laws, but one provides that the Act on the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities provides that these activities are licensed, the other does not provide. What is the way to go? We can take the wild market that we've been going to for many years now, and we're going nowhere. Because the quality of the product that lies on the shelves today, despite the fact that it was decided to make both genetically modified and otherwise defined, marked and so forth, it does not meet today the criteria that are for product safety. That's why I think it's the right conclusion and the government is making this proposal to make changes to these two laws and to foresee that the development, production, implementation of the technical means of rehabilitation and the provision of services are subject to licensing. So in my opinion, this will protect our people with disabilities, it will make this process more controlled, but everything depends on law enforcement. If the laws do not, of course they will. People won't be protected. Legislatively, we can only do what we can to uphold this law in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u142	Thank you. Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of “The Block of Lithuania. ” The next thing you know, the party's gonna be on.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u143	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Oleg Zarubinsky, Block of Lithuania. Dear colleagues, a little bit about the history of this matter. The point is that in 2006 our colleagues had already submitted or were the authors of the legislative initiative, just as it was directed, in principle, on the same subject. In particular, amendments were made to the law on the licensing of certain types of commercial activities in the field of manufacturing, medical engineering, and medical devices. Then the President of Ukraine vetoed this law and the situation has been what it is for three years. But by supporting this bill and the "Block of Lithuania" faction will support it in voting on the basis. We wanted to point out that there's a certain danger, you know, with all the savage market on. This is inappropriate, because people with limited physical capacity are most sensitive to inadequacies, they suffer the most, they have no one to refer to, and no one to appeal to. But in this case, it may not be an obstacle to a certain administrative method of limiting to those who would like to provide their services, who would like to be a source of production. I would like that when we're preparing for a second reading, to give maybe in some form, or information to us, or a consultation on the subject, so that it's not a limiting moment, and it doesn't hurt, first of all, to these people with disabilities and people who can't take advantage of everything that, fortunately, healthy people can benefit from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u144	National Deputy Evening, faction of the Party of the Regions. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u145	Evening, Party of Regions. We are considering this bill, it is relevant, and the rehabilitation of this contingent of patients is also relevant. But right before me were the two deputies who said that today we could adopt a bill that would allow the goods to disappear altogether from the market. It is therefore necessary to avoid the “wild” market, but it is necessary to move smoothly to market relations and allow others to produce this group of goods and, of course, to be licensed in the future. The bill therefore needs to be finalized and put to a rehearsing session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u146	Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. The committee's proposal is to take it as a basis. I'm betting on a motion for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine, registration number 3287. [[on the licensing of activities for the development, production and implementation of technical and other means of rehabilitation]] Please vote. [[13:11:50]] For 227 Decision taken. I'm asking the faction leaders to be in the session room. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain activities is being announced for consideration. [[on the aviation industry]] Registration number 2311. Rapporteur: Ukrainian National Deputy Jaroslav Mikhajlovich Suhi, co-rapporteur: Head of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, Royal Natalia Jurijovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u147	Dear colleagues! What is the need to draft this bill, which we are today, which is being brought before you by the national deputy of Ukraine, Viacheslav Boguslav. So it happened that in 2001 there was a basic law on licensing for certain types of economic activity and there was a need for licensing and centralized water supply, and the production of securities forms, medical and veterinary practices, the production of cars, even the licensing of domestic animals, and the production, implementation, sale of aircraft rocket engines, equipment to them and other aviation techniques were dropped because probably in 2001 no one thought that anyone would be able to do a questionable business here. As a result, for the last two or three years in Ukrainian companies, in manufacturing and repairing aviation technology, there are now more than 20 of them in Ukraine, from law enforcement agencies, first of all, from external intelligence services, there are questions about the nature of the origins of some aviation engines that, at suspiciously low prices, are trying to export abroad. Usually, the tests show that the numbers on the engines -- fake, factory, factory documents -- forged, forged signatures, forged seals, criminal cases are being violated, but the latest case is the information from the BSI. A limited liability company with a solid fund of 20,000 dollars. Activities: breeding of sheep and goats, cultivation of potato crops, fruit cans, and attention! – construction of air and space-based aircraft. It's registered in Ukraine and it has codes, and everything in the world seems to be funny. But here's the last case. There's been a delay in a bunch of engines, AI-20, and they're engines for the entire family of AN planes that we have now in Africa and in other countries, problems. What kind of engines are these? These are the engines that someone stole from the Ministry of Defense, from the warehouses, broke through the forms and tried to sell abroad. We suggest that we make additions to the basic law, that we make a brief change. That list, 78 of them.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u148	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u149	We propose to supplement the basic law by providing for licensing and certification for the repair and sale of aircraft engines and aircraft technology. The proposed bill does not have budget expenditure, or it will contribute to the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u150	Natalia Juryovna Královska, head of the committee. Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u151	Dear Vladimir Mihajlović, distinguished colleagues, the Industrial Regulatory Policy and Enterprise Committee, at its meeting on 14 May 2008, reviewed the draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of selected economic activities concerning the aviation industry. Registration number 2311. The purpose of the bill is to address the problems that have arisen in domestic aviation by introducing licensing activities for aircraft engines and their components, aircraft equipment and other equipment. The solution to these problems is indeed very relevant in Ukraine, Ukraine, one of the few countries in the world that manufactures aircraft and aircraft in Ukraine, which is capable of producing high-tech products today. I mean, competitive, not in the 19th, but in the 21st century. In addition, one job today at our airlines provides 12 jobs in other machinery companies. Today, 34 enterprises and more than 70,000 people operate in the air. The decisions of the Government seriously support the industry, as recently provided for the replenishment of the Charter Fund of the Kharkiv State Aviation Company, the replenishment of the Charter Fund of the Avian State Enterprise, in both cases directed towards the payment of salaries to staff and modernization. Work is under way to ensure that our AN-148 aircraft are shipped abroad. These are essentially respected colleagues, because it is about the airline and we need to understand how important it is today for wages to be paid there in order for them to have development prospects today. And at the same time, there are complaints, because this is really a form of support, in this case, by licensing. The Committee considered the bill and supported it. At the same time, the Committee points out that certain provisions of the bill do not fully respond today.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u152	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u153	The Committee requests support for the bill. Thank you, distinguished colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u154	How about we support the committee's decision? The discussion, please, I'm asking you, please sign in. On the board is the name of the national deputies who signed up for the discussion. Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u155	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense. Dear National Deputies! Now, in a moment of crisis, we need to think about what sectors can push us forward -- this is definitely the space sector where we occupy 6-7th place in the world, and for start-up services in 2007 we took 5th place, and in 2008 and 4th place in the world. Where else are we on these levels? In aviation, we're about ten. That's what you have to stick around for. These are the areas where we have to cuddle. And I'm grateful to the people's deputies, both Boguslaev and Sushima, for their legislative initiative. For this reason, I would now like to express my appreciation for the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, which says that the changes to paragraph 78 of the second part: “the conditions for licensing and the mandatory prior receipt of appropriate certifications for the production and repair of engines, components and components thereof, aviation equipment and other aviation technology”, and further written, “the operation of this item does not extend to those operators who have obtained appropriate certifications for the production and repair of aviation technology under the Ukrainian Law and to the acquisition of the validity of this law”. Dear friends! It is also absolutely correct that the Scientific and Expert Office wrote that this allegedly violates the principle of equality and article 13 of the Constitution, according to which all subjects of property rights are equal before the law, and the performers of Zub and Valkowski is a MARAZMATIC ACCOUNT! It doesn't hurt, it just says that these companies, and we only have a few of them, they don't have to do anything again, we don't have to make it difficult for them to do anything, and I'd like the Expert Office not to make it difficult. This Law should be adopted in both the first and the second readings, here nothing.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u156	Thank you! Mikhailo Chechatov faction “Parties of the Regions”.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u157	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The proposed bill establishes an additional legislative barrier – the introduction of the obligation to obtain companies that want to implement engines, detail and aircraft equipment and other aviation technology, licences. In particular, the first is for newly created enterprises; the second is small businesses that do not have an aviation history in terms of manufacturing and repairing aviation technology; the third is companies whose main activities are other industries than the aviation industry; the fourth is companies that have not received Ukrainian legislation-based certifications for manufacturing and repairing aviation technology after the acquisition of this Law and the sixth is companies that do not have proper staff conditions, bases to produce and repair aviation technology and other non-transmission companies. Thus, in order to realize the right to sell the corresponding manufactured, or repaired, or otherwise acquired aviation technology, operators must obtain certificates of conformity with their production and repairs. The adoption of the proposed amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of agricultural activity will allow to ensure a minimum reduction, I stress once again, a minimum reduction in the aviation industry. The failure to discredit and lower the authority of the sector in question by incompetent enterprises and, in general, to protect the rights of legitimate interests, life and health of citizens, to protect the environment, and to ensure the security of the state. The faction of the Party of the Regions proposes to adopt this bill in the first reading and in general to support our aviation sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u158	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is concluded. The proposal for a committee to adopt as a basis for the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of agricultural activity, registration number 2311. [[on the aviation industry]] Please vote. [[13:22:52]] For 348 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the proposal was made, please note, that this project should be accepted as a matter of law as a whole. Who has the warning? There's a warning in King's Landing, I can't. Please, perhaps there are some suggestions to consider and accept, Natalia Yuriovna, please say. So that we can find understanding and compromise here.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u159	Respectable colleagues, respected by Vladimir Mihajlovich, need to be further developed, some have indeed introduced discrimination for a number of enterprises today in the aviation complex. And when we discussed these rules with the drafters at the committee meeting, they agreed with the committee to finalize them for second reading. The Committee therefore supported the bill in its first reading. There is a suggestion that we will finalize all these rules within a week, review the bill next sessional week and adopt it as a basis. Thank you so much for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u160	Dear colleagues, have you understood? Then let us make a decision to have the committee shorten the procedure for preparing for the second reading. Whoever's behind this proposal, please vote. [[13:24:19]] For 334 Decision taken. The draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of agricultural activity, registered number 3336, is being announced for consideration. [[on licensing conditions]] The rapporteur is Ukraine’s national deputy, Kseniya Mikhailovna Ljapina. Correspondent is a member of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship Valery Grigorovich Krajnyj. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u161	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that this bill was initiated in response to an analysis of the work of the Board of Experts, which works with the State Committee on Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship. It is this body that decides many, well, judicially decides many complaints of entrepreneurial activities when, for example, they have been deprived of their license. The analysis shows that very often we have licenses for a formal sign. That is to say, the subject, in carrying out all the licensing requirements, is effectively operating within the framework of the law, has appropriate qualifications for the employees, but not after 10 days, but after 12 days the authority has notified the dismissal of one employee and the hiring of another, and this is already the basis for the removal of his license. And those who report at the right time, however, are in fact violating licensing conditions, are not liable to be deprived. This is certainly nonsense, but actually the analysis of the work of the panel of experts shows what it is. And this bill that I'm proposing, it's technical enough, but it's proposing to change this ridiculous situation right now. I propose that licensing conditions that are approved by each licensing authority determine what information and what terms the subject should be given. If this information is not essential to the daily work of the subject, it may be delivered within a month, and if it is essential, it should be submitted within a two - day period. And each time, it has to set up an appropriate body under its licensing conditions. You know how many licenses we have, how many activities are licensed, and each one has its own features. This is why licensing is provided. That's the content of my bill. I suggest that this is a formal reason to rule out, but essentially put it into licensing conditions, and if it is broken, it would be a violation of licensing conditions. I.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u162	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u163	And that will be the basis for the subject’s license. I'm asking you to support everyone, because this is cooking today, for example, for the same carriers that we're all worried about here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u164	The committee head will report. Royal Natalia Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u165	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Bill 3336 is one of the laws that today is designed to protect domestic entrepreneurs. The amendments to the Ukrainian Act on the licensing of certain economic activities have indeed been made, and today the Act provides that the economic operator is sufficient not to report changes in the licensing documents within 10 days and that the licence may be selected. You can be a good businessman, you can pay taxes, you can create jobs, you can meet all the licensing conditions, but you can still get a license. The Committee on Industrial, Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship therefore agreed with the author's proposals to submit proposals to the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain economic activities, in particular to reduce the list of grounds for revocation of licences. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in its conclusion, proposes the return of the draft law to the finalization. Industrial Policy Committee. Regulatory policy and entrepreneurship suggested that it should be taken as a basis, but that it should be further developed in the light of the proposals that had now been made by the author for second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u166	Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? Is it? Come on in, please. Please put the names of the people's deputies on the board. Yuri Karmazin and Mikhailo Chechetov Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u167	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear National Deputies! I have asked for the floor because the bill is necessary, but it is not possible to clearly refer to the various norms of this bill. If you agree, you can. and we can agree with article 8 that under licensing conditions requirements are laid down for the need to report on data change, and this is the right thing to do, delete immediately without any alternative in article 21 the non-existence act in the constitutional period of the change in the data recorded in the documents, the change in the data recorded in the documents, and also as regards. This is about that consideration of cancellations on the basis of a form-setting act, and also that the impossibility, if previously provided for by the law of cancellation of licences when it is impossible for the licensee to ensure the performance of the licence conditions, we are now saying that an act on the inability to establish it is necessary. This has to be done. This needs to be done, and it can only be done in a second reading. Because, on the one hand, the inability to provide conditions is something that depends on this entity, it's a subjective possibility that it can't fulfil, and we're replacing it with an inability to provide. So someone else has to write an act about it. I think it's impossible to introduce this norm, it's unrealistic, and it's totally not true because we want to achieve it in this law. So this thing will have to be removed, where the act of impossibility is left as impossible to provide. And where there's an installment act, make a set up, that's a few violations, so you don't have to rule out the license for one violation. In general, I would like to support you in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u168	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u169	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of economic activity provides for a possible extension of the licence to the subject of entrepreneurial activity, such as a construction organisation, in the absence of appropriate technology, which is necessary for obtaining a licence. [[on licensing conditions]] Under such conditions, any organization may be licensed for any type of activity and continue such activity without having to meet the de facto licensing conditions. The faction of the Party of the Regions suggests that this bill be amended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u170	Dear colleagues, draft Law 3336 has been discussed. A proposal for a committee to adopt a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Review of Certain Economic Activities on Review Conditions, registration number 3336, is put to the vote. Please vote. [[13:32:44]] For 233 Decision taken. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Citizens' Appeal Act is being announced for consideration, which is being submitted in the form of an electronic document. Justice Minister Mikola Vasilovich Onichuk, co-rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights of International Minorities and Internationally, national minorities and inter-national relations, Eduardo Ivanovich Pavlenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u171	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, the Government of Ukraine is taking the initiative to approve the draft, the law amending the law on the conversion of citizens, which aims to ensure that citizens of Ukraine have the right to appeal to public authorities, local authorities, their officials and businesses, institutions and organizations of all forms of property through the use of the Internet. This means that Ukrainian citizens should have the right to address these categories of government and public institutions not only by means of written references but also by using modern means of electronic and postal communication. The law is extremely short, clear and clear, and a number of articles of the current law on citizens’ conversion are added. The Government of Ukraine believes that this will allow for the expansion and guarantee of the implementation of the constitutional rights of citizens to monitor the activities of public authorities and, in particular, the responsibility of the latter to provide an appropriate answer, a reasoned, motivated response to such appeals, also possibly in electronic form. Thank you for your attention. Report completed.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u172	Thank you, Mikola Vasilovich. Please take the seat of the committee. Edward Ivanovich Pavlenko, head of the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u173	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! Our Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and National Relations at its meeting on 24 December 2008 discussed the bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Citizens' Appeal, submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine by the Cabinet of Ministers. As already stated, it is intended to give citizens the right to contact government authorities, local authorities, officials, and e - mail authorities. The procedure for dealing with such calls should be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. In discussing the issue, the committee noted that this novel deserves attention and support because it enhances the ability to exercise the right of citizens to appeal in the form of an electronic document. Emphasis was placed on the need to put in place an electronic mail mechanism to address citizens and to introduce electronic digital signatures. By the way, the laws governing these issues were passed back in 2003. The main scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine does not object to the adoption of the bill as a basis. His proposed editorial remarks could be taken into account in the second reading of the bill. As noted in the explanatory note, the draft Law is agreed without notice with the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, the Ministry of Economics, the Ministry of Transport and Communications, and the State Committee of Information, and will require additional financial costs from the State Budget of Ukraine. The adoption of this law is also supported by the Committees of the Supreme Council on Transport and Communications and Budget. In the light of what we have presented, our committee has decided to recommend a prescribed bill to be adopted on a basis. [[Registration number 3664]] Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u174	Is there a need to discuss this bill? Yes, please, let's sign up. There's a record for the discussion, please put the names of the national deputies on the board. Oleg Zarubinski. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u175	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! You know, as many experts as you can think of, this bill, the real negative, no one can say. So there are some editorial amendments, but obviously everyone understands, and you and I understand that the right of people to the right of organizations, authorities, etc. is paramount. We are expanding the scope and categories of people who have access, access to public authorities, local governments, businesses, organizations, etc. by this bill. Why? Because today and everyone understands the Internet for a lot of people, especially people, and we have a lot of people who can't leave the house, who can't leave the apartment, they're disabled, they're people with limited capabilities. In the absence of pandas, we have everything else that's normal in a civilized country. It seems to me that the ability of people to go to public authorities via the Internet by e-mail is expanding and no one here can accuse it, is expanding people's rights. On the other hand, the organizations and authorities of the State are already well prepared and computerized to provide and answer to those who use them electronically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u176	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u177	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear National Deputies! Of course, what the project proposes is to normalize the ability of citizens to refer to institutions and receive an email response is a positive one. But I'm not convinced today, and if the government is confident that all our government agencies can accept, in general, all of them, I emphasize, state institutions can accept e-mail for now. And I, knowing the situation in the areas and cities of our country, want to say that unfortunately not everyone can accept, I'd like to say a few more things, a couple of comments that will have to be taken into account later on the second reading. We have to predict how we can be accused then the answers, as we will, you know, identify that there is a signature of the Honourable Minister or Deputy Minister, or the signature of the Prosecutor or the Head of the Bureau. How to separate an anonymous address from an anonymous one, for now it has been rekindled, including anonymous ones. So obviously, we have to write down that an organization, a state institution that responds to that request, in addition to everything else, has to respond in writing to get that answer. Although this is a huge problem, because our mail has already raised tariffs, that's a huge question to be heard here and that's a question for government officials. I'm asking you a question, what happened today that the envelopes are now over 5 bracelets and so on, you understand, and it's impossible to send? In principle, then, we need to accept it in the first reading, but we need to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u178	Thank you. Taras Blackwall, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u179	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished fellow members of the National Deputies, all because I am one of the deputies who is using this bill's standards in real work, I am forced to vote against it today on the basis of my experience. First, there is no system for citizens of Ukraine to sign today. Under these circumstances, the irresponsibility that arises under such circumstances will only grow. I get an order of two hundred e-mails every day, 150 of them are open spam, 30-order, different references, different social organizations, and everything else, there, support the Constitution project or something like spam and about 20-something -- addressing specific issues. I have already burned this several times before, when I, in response to these e - mail calls, then came across the fact that there are no such people in nature. I don't have the ability to make clear whether a person who addresses me specifically or any other authority actually exists in nature, or whether it's not basic shullerism. If we ask the question that a person can turn to an official and get an answer, then what do we do for ourselves is to introduce another bureaucratic message or help a person. I have a question for you. If we're just asking to have someone write and write it off and write it off and write it off to the President's Secretariat, from other bodies, "your letter accepted for consideration" and somewhere out there, it can be done. So that's not going to happen, we're just multiplying bureaucracy until there's an electronic signature system -- once, and a system to fix the fact that these letters are coming because it costs me to click on the button and throw that address away and then talk about it: it's happening to me -- it's going to be an elementary populism. I think it's worth playing with.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u180	Adam Martinyuk is a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u181	Dear colleagues! I think we should welcome the Cabinet of Ministers and more authors of this bill, I have great doubts that it was written in the Cabinet of Ministers. Now I'm going to tell you who described it most quickly with the fact that we're being moved at a very fast pace to civilization. That's very good. But please tell me, dear colleagues, do you often look at your e-mails that are in your computers? If you're looking, what do you see? Maybe Taras is communicating, because there's something to talk to if you look around, Taras! There are opportunities to communicate with various sites that give a certain amount of satisfaction before or after a parliamentary meeting. It's a higher-class campaign! This bill was written by lobbyists, providers who want to make money on it! They've moved the Cabinet of Ministers, which seems to be, well, good law, let's go through e-mail. Please tell me, who's in control? That they would come to me and go to your personal computers and check if I had a call. What if this address is already taken from the computer? They're going to get on the servers and so on and so forth. It's very and very dangerous, and again, I repeat, a job that is not subject to control. Next. Please tell me, on what grounds do we give the Cabinet of Ministers the right to make laws? We are amending the Ukrainian Citizens' Appeal Act. Once again, in the law of Ukraine! So the citizens' appeal is determined by law. And then we write, let the Cabinet of Ministers give us instructions instead of the law as we communicate with the citizens. Let us, fellows of honor, once again “give in hand” to the lobbyist laws! Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-18-m0.u182	Dear colleagues! The presentation is complete, and allow me to have a few words for generalization. It's all right, it's all there, but let's think about perspective. Can they make this decision on a basis and then work on it? We cannot live at the age of stone. But it is your will, the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Therefore, a proposal is put to the vote by the Committee on Adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Citizens' Appeal. Registration number 3064. Please vote. [[13:46:52]] For-183 The decision is not taken. In practice, we can put the focus on rereading the first reading. This proposal is made for the re-reading of draft Law 3064. Let's figure it out. [[13:47:21]] For 203 The decision is not taken, the law is rejected. Dear colleagues, I continue my work. [[B in m in s a l in]] 15 minutes, my dear fellows. Dear colleagues, I have four bills left that apply exactly to nuclear energy. Come on. Now I can read it to you. It's essentially the same package. We need to get through it. So I suggest you continue for 15 minutes or we'll take a look. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Free Activities in the Use of Nuclear Energy is being announced for consideration, registration number 2324. The committee proposes to accept it as a basis. Should they report him? But so that we don't overthrow the bill, dear colleagues. The Supreme Council supports acceptance as a basis? I'm voting on the adoption on the basis of the draft Law 2324 on Free Activities in the Use of Nuclear Energy. Please vote. [[13:49:00]] For three hundred Decision taken. Now the next draft of the Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Order of Decisions on the Placement, Design, Construction of Nuclear Installations and Objects for the Treatment of Radioactive Wastes of National Significance. [[on improving decision-making]] This is project number 3562. The committee considered it, the scientific and expert board considered it, and they're offering to take it as a basis. No objections? I'm voting for adoption on the basis of draft Law 3562. Please vote. The author is national deputy Tulub Sergey Borisovich. [[13:49:54]] For 376 Decision taken. Next is a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine in connection with the ratification of the Amendment to the Convention on the Physical Protection of Nuclear Material. [[Registration number 2365]] The committee considered it, recommending acceptance as a basis. The conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration: The bill can be adopted as a basis. Is there a need to discuss it? You don't? I am voting on the adoption of the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine in connection with the ratification of the Amendment to the Convention on the Physical Protection of Nuclear Material. Please vote. [[13:50:56]] For 385 Decision taken. The next bill is the amendment to some Ukrainian legislation, registration number 3017. [[on State oversight of nuclear and radiation security]] But in this way, the conclusion of the committee is to take it as a whole. And the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration is that it can be taken as a basis. Is there a need to report him? So let me leave to the vote on adoption as the basis of draft law registration number 3017. Please vote. [[13:51:53]] For 378 Decision taken. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, there is a denial. Dear colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, there is a denial. We accepted it as a foundation. The list of Wednesday’s issues has been exhausted. The Supreme Council of Ukraine has made appropriate decisions, and then we have every reason to declare that. Mornings. The meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. At 3 p.m. parliamentary hearings will begin on "The state of justice in Ukraine". Tomorrow the Supreme Council of Ukraine will begin plenary work at 10 a.m. on schedule for Thursday. Thank you.
