ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:00:20]] The 331 National MPs registered with cards in the session hall, and the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine declared open. Dear National Deputies, today the birthday of our colleague Koval Viacheslav Stanislavovich, let us welcome him and wish him every success. [[Applause]] Dear National Deputies! I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary meeting on 4 November 2009. Eight issues of order have been discussed, one law has been passed as a result, four bills adopted as a basis, and four bills have been rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a schedule for the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in plenary mode on 5 November 2009. No notes, no warnings? Let us turn to the issues set out in the schedule for today. Dear colleagues. What? All right? I asked. Please, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u2	Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Today, the daily bill 5000 is in order, the draft State Budget Act for 2010, and 5140 is the draft Act on the State Economic and Social Development Programme for Ukraine. There was a reference to the Committee on Budget Questions to postpone the review of the draft State Budget Act to 2010, because it is not ready for us on the committee, because it was presented late as a result of the blocking of the Supreme Council's work, the proposals made by deputies and so on. So let us not consider it today. Neither the draft State Budget for 2010 nor the draft law on Ukraine's State Economic and Social Development Programme for 2010, because these documents are not ready. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u3	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, in response to our colleague Oleg Laska's proposal, I inform you that yesterday the Prime Minister of Ukraine stated in Ivano-Frankovsky: “It will be impossible to accept this budget in the political chaos in Parliament before the presidential elections.” At the same time, I am informing you that there were only 13 members of the budget committee meeting yesterday. And you know who holds the stock control package on this committee -- two factions. So, dear colleagues, you don't want to go to the budget committee. So I suggest that as soon as we get to the issue, we make all the suggestions that have been made, we look at the Supreme Council. And let's stop competing over the fact that the Supreme Council of Ukraine doesn't work. If the government proposes to postpone the review of Ukraine's socio-economic development programme for 2010 and accuses the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I think it's just a misunderstanding, to put it mildly. Let's work. A draft Ordinance on the Prior Action against the spread of pandemic flu in Ukraine, a second reading, is being announced for consideration. Let me make a suggestion to the Head of the Health Committee, Aunt Dmitry Bachetti, and to consider the amendments. We've already discussed the problem, and we've talked a lot about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u4	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! Given that, during the plenary meeting on Tuesday, I had no opportunity to present this order. It was voted in the words of the President of the Supreme Council, very briefly indeed. On 2 November, on instructions from Viktor Fedorović Januković, we prepared a decree on priority measures against the spread of pandemic influenza in Ukraine. [[project]] We have set out these goals, first of all, to allocate the necessary resources to carry out emergency activities to localize and minimize pandemic influenza. Look, it's interesting, 96 people have already died, aren't you? Don't you care? And six doctors, seven pregnant, and nine little children, listen carefully, don't you care?Oh, my God! That's how he interrupts. The Party of the Regions insists that 500 million bracelets be allocated to regions where there are no drugs today that do not have equipment to save people's lives.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u5	Aunt Dmitrovna, can I have your attention for a minute? Dear colleagues, you're reporting to the head of the committee, not as a member of the faction, and this is a draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, not a faction, not a committee. Please, let's stop political agitation.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u6	As Chairman of the Committee, I report that there is no way to diagnose today in any region if it is swine flu, there are two hundred systems in Kiev that are nothing more. I am talking today about the fact that there are no artificial ventilation devices in the regions today, and this is all taken into account by the people's deputies. We received 47 proposals during that time. I am very grateful to all who have engaged in this very important work. 39 amendments taken into account, three taken into account editorially, one taken into account in part, three amendments rejected. The Committee very much requests all members of the people, regardless of colour, authority and armchairs, to support the draft decision. Because the people's deputies are directly responsible for the health of our citizens. I would like to add that today I would like to warn both the Prime Minister and the President of the constant mutual grievances and attempts to show who is working more. I would like to take this opportunity to address them. Article 14 of Ukraine's health legislation stipulates that the implementation of public health policies is entrusted to the authorities of the State and that the President's personal responsibility is vested in him. It is you, the authority of today, who is responsible for the fact that the country today is not ready for this situation. And today you failed to fully prepare for the pandemic flu when.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u7	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u8	People will die. Let's do some repairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u9	Dear colleagues! We're going straight. I'll call the amendments, there's no objection if we go further. Do you have a deal? Amendment number one with respect to the name of the regulation. Is there no objection? No one insists on voting? Amendment number two. Is there no objection? Amendment number three. No, who's raising their hand? Valery Bondick, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u10	Volodymyr Mikhailovich! There is no objection, but there is an amendment. As such, after hearing the information of Prime Minister Timoshenko U.V. of Ukraine, the head of the Committee of the Bachevo Tetya Dmitrovna and so forth. But there it goes on to add that the information of the PNB on this issue is not given to the Supreme Council. But we know, according to the Constitution, this constitutional body and they were making some sort of precautionary measures not to extend this pandemic. What do I say about PNBO? There is also my bill, which I have made in connection with the lack of information from Minister Shandria and Knazevitch. But the Commander-in-Chief is President Yushchenko of Ukraine, and it may be that additional mobilization is needed to introduce, challenge from the supply of doctors, immunologists who are being trained in the military. Only Yushchenko, President of Ukraine, can do this. In view of the fact that they had already taken all these steps. I propose to make this amendment to the PNB. Please work in an editorial fashion.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u11	Dear colleagues! We were invited to work with you on Tuesday, when we considered this issue, on Tuesday and Wednesday, to make a decision on Thursday. All the written amendments that were made, the committee considered and handed down its verdict. Now I suggest we not discuss anything. Let's move on. Adam Martinyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u12	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Aunt Dmitrovna, Vladimir Mikhailovich! Maybe if we have that possibility, if we have that possibility, let's freshen up the numbers, because we're saying 2 November, and we're taking a decision today. So I'm going to suggest you put the digits there on November 5th so it doesn't go to 2nd. Although the committee did the right thing because we listened to the 2nd, but we're taking the 5th, I'm asking you to enter new numbers.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u13	Dear colleagues! If there is no objection to the preparation for the signing of the document technically, then these proposals will be made. These are technical notes and should be taken into account. Next. Amendment number 4. Amendment number four, Sergey Shevchuk, it's rejected. Please, Sergio Shevchuk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u14	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! My amendment is to remove paragraphs 5, 6 and 7, because they are only political in nature, they have signs of engagement. Previous estimates, including the expansion of content, not only in connection with the flu epidemic, but paragraph 6 refers to global and national threats to which Ukraine’s leadership is not ready. I think it's premature, it's inappropriate, we're going to be listening to the government report in December, and then there's going to be an evaluation based on, by the way, WHO's independent experts. And now, unfortunately, we're reintroducing politics into the forensic, epidemiological theme. So I ask that paragraphs 5, 6 and 7 be deleted, our esteemed chairman of the committee, see you this morning, excuse me, twist you and Yanukovich to the point that you and Yanukovich remember, and all of them, and the 500 million for which you are alone yesterday, along with the communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u15	Yes, please, the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u16	Dear Sergey Vladimirovich! I respect you very much as a doctor, and I know that you've completed the Ternopolis Institute, and for many years you've worked as a doctor, I won't call you any more in the field. And you understand very well that the WHO said in April that 7 million people on the planet will die this flu, be ready, all countries! 24 countries in Europe have already experienced cases. Ukraine already had two cases in June. Wasn't that something to prepare for? Do you have to sell Tamiflu today, which costs 30 euros all over Europe and all over the world, to sell 800 bracelets? Are we going to talk today about what machines are needed for artificial ventilation, what production? I have to talk or there are producers in the towers, lobbying their topics. Couldn't you be prepared to do that? Because it's a responsibility, it's their job. And you know whose.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u17	Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u18	There is no policy here.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u19	We're not discussing an amendment, we're voting now. It's better to mobilize for the vote. Dear colleagues, that's the offer. Let's as much as possible avoid politicizing this document. Why am I appealing to this and asking for your support? Yesterday, the President of Ukraine addressed the Ukrainian people and said, literally, that “the flu pandemic was known to the government, the leadership of the Supreme Council and the opposition as early as October of this year”. Further, I emphasize: “This was known, and this has been ignored by both the head of parliament and the leader of the opposition, first of all, the Prime Minister,” and beyond. I am responsible for claiming that there was no document in the Supreme Council of Ukraine that would indicate that there was a threat to the flu epidemic. From the media, as I do, you know that the Security Service has made proposals to the National Security and Defence Council that there is such a threat. At the same time, the National Security and Defence Council has only convened 30 numbers. The question is, Who was hiding the information? In this regard, dear colleagues, let us show reasonableness and balance. And we're going to remove the political scores from this document, and life will give its estimates. We need to make an effective decision. So I'm putting to the vote amendment number 4 of national deputy Sergei Shevchuk, who is referring to the removal of paragraphs 5, 6 and 7 of the founding part as politically involved in the form and as a result of the content causing undue and unjustified anxiety in the population. Please vote. [[10:14:56]] For 202 The decision is not taken. Next amendment. Next Amendment 5, accounted for. No one's insisting on her? Six. Counted. They don't insist on it. Next. Seven? No, it's not. Eight? No, it's not. 9th? No, it's not. Please, Oleg Lazko microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u20	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear Aunt Dmitry! Regarding the eighth amendment, which foresees that, in order to avoid abuse and corruption in the use of public funds, prior agreement with the Health Committee on how to use the funds foreseen by the ILO and the direction of expenditure. Well, I don't think that's the committee's mandate, we're legally setting such standards. We have an agreement in the Budget Act with the Committee, we have a Euro Act that agrees with the Azarov Committee and the Committee on Budgets. So we've been looking at budget changes, we've allocated a billion, we've had to write this rule down. And in the determination to write what the law requires, it seems to me that this is not quite right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u21	In such a difficult situation, I think that if there is control of the committee and the people's deputies, it will be very, very correct and clearly stated in the Budget Act that control is and is to be maintained. Don't worry about it, we'll only control what the regions give us and we'll demand that only the targeted and rational use of money be bought. Don't worry about anything else, we're working with people and our doors are always open, I've sent three letters to the Prime Minister about the situation since April, and three times the committee has warned you: get ready for this, and you're afraid of something today.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u22	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Amendment No. 8 of Aunt Dmitry’s Bachelor’s Committee counts. At the same time, in view of the insistence of the national deputy, Oleg Láška, I will put to the vote to confirm this amendment. To correct this, I will read: “In order not to allow abuse and corruption in the use of the funds of the state budget of Ukraine to ensure prior agreement with the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on health issues regarding the use of the funds envisioned by the Ministry of Health of Ukraine to prevent the spread of pandemic flu and influenza epidemics and acute respiratory infections among the population, as well as the treatment of patients and the direction of expenditure in accordance with these measures.” To confirm this amendment, please vote. [[10:18:09]] For 244 Correction supported. Let's move on. Amendment number nine. No objections? Amendment to the 10th. No objections? 11th Amendment? None. Amendment to the 12th? None. Amendment 13? None. Oh, please, the microphone. Vladimir Landik. It's counted. Correction 14th. It's counted. No objections? Correction 15th and 16th. Please, Adam Martinyuk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u23	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, I ask you to pay attention to a trick that, I don't know, has been used, it's hard for me to say. Because our amendment here is Vladimir Mikhailovich, and I've been introducing on behalf of the faction that to remove this item, it's counted. But they took it out of here and put it in another place. So our amendment is practically out of the question. So I'm asking you to vote that the whole point of reordering the institution should be taken out of the text altogether.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u24	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u25	Really. May I, Vladimir Mikhailovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u26	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u27	In fact, of course, the Institute is the only one in Ukraine with infectious diseases, it should clearly be subordinated to the Ministry of Health, but not to the Academy. But to this day it will be very difficult and difficult, and for nothing, so we have rejected it. Therefore, there is no mention of this amendment. Adam Ivanovich, all over the world, such institutions are subject to the Ministry, and you understand that very well.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to this amendment, please pay attention to what is being said. It is proposed to consider reorganizing the Ministry of Health of Ukraine’s Institute of Epidemiology, an infectious disease called Gromasevski. This institution is now in the framework of the Academy of Medical Sciences. The Academy of Medical Sciences is gradually being expanded, according to the trials that are taking place. Today, there is a request from managers of all medical institutions not to make such a decision. It takes opposition to be opposed in order to be able to express objective assessments and make objective decisions rather than subordinate them to one center. But because it is. Well, Adam Martinyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u29	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, may I have your attention again? It says here that our 15th amendment is counted. It's really counted. But the 31st amendment on page 11 states that the Cabinet of Ministers will prepare and make proposals for reorganizing the Institute by 10 November. So this is where they removed it and put it in another city. So I propose, Vladimir Mikhailovich, that we vote on our amendment. If we take it into account, it will have to disappear accordingly in 31 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u30	Sergey Shevchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u31	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. The 31st amendment is my amendment. I want to respond to Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk. It's not about us making a decision right now, it's not about handing over this institution to Minhvod. Read carefully. The idea is for the Academy of Medical Sciences and the Ministry of Health to submit reasoned, balanced proposals for Kabmin, which will be considered in an orderly manner. So I have the same warnings as Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk. But I ask that this question be considered as it should be dealt with in the legal order here and there.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u32	Dear National Deputies! Adam Ivanovich withdraws his warnings. There are no others, so let's move on, right? Amendment 17. Is there no objection? 18? It's counted. No objections? Amendment 19 counted. No objections? 20 counted. 20? Please. Oleg Laschka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u33	Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! In your 20th amendment, paragraph 11.17 is proposed to prepare a draft law on the total prohibition of advertising for alcohol and tobacco products for consideration by the Supreme Council. That's absolutely right. But as far as I know, these bills are already registered with the Supreme Council, and they're on the committee's agenda. [[I mean, I think there's another way to think about it.]] It is urgent for the committees concerned to submit to the Supreme Council legislation on the complete prohibition of the advertising of alcohol and tobacco products, their trademarks, and medicines. Because they're already registered, there's a dozen of them. And they sabotage the committees, they don't go to the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u34	Dear colleagues! Is there no objection to the clarification offered by Comrade Lazko? That's what you take, isn't it? Let's move on. The 21st Amendment, the Lithuanian People's Deputy, is rejected. Are you insisting on her? Oh, no? 22nd Lace. Counted. Are you insisting? It's counted. Microphone Light, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u35	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, it is included in the following edition: “I propose that measures be taken to open pharmacies in the villages and simplify the permit procedure for opening these items.” I propose a slightly different presentation: “Take steps to open up the simplified permit procedure for pharmacies in the villages”. [[and dot]] That is, to entrust Kabmin with a simplified procedure for opening drugstores in the villages. Because if they open them according to the procedure that is now, they won't open them up to the new flu pandemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u36	The committee doesn't mind?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u37	No, no, it's fine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u38	The committee doesn't object. Do we approve of such refinement? Thank you. Let's move on. 23, 24, 25, and 26 amendments are included. Who insists on these amendments? Oh, no? 27th Lilia Grigorovitch. Counted. Don't you insist? 28th Prokopchuk. Counted. 29th Grigorovich. Counted. 30th Yuri Miroshnicka. Counted. Sergei Shevchuk's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u39	Thank you. I want to speak to the author, the honorary MP of the Peacekeeper. We all respect people's rights and freedoms: the right to education, the right to peaceful assembly, demonstrations, speeches, rallies. But accept that in an epidemic situation, the right to the health of citizens is still a priority. Therefore, it is not desirable that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine cancel the three - week decree that made certain restrictions on citizens’ rights for the health of their citizens. I hope that the head of the committee as a doctor will also respond correctly to my remarks.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u40	Yuri Miroshnichenko. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u41	Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear colleagues, this is not the whim of Peacekeeper. And I don't think you and I should define the limits of citizens' rights. Where there is no pandemic, we have no right to limit their right to meet candidates for the post of President of Ukraine. And this, I'll tell you honestly, looks, even in the classrooms, it's being discussed that some of the candidates who have public office today, in terms of fighting the pandemic, are seeing doctors and teachers very well, and those who are in opposition or are not representatives of the government are limited in their ability to meet. In order not to accuse the Supreme Council of our biased approach to the issue of the political rights of citizens, I think that this is precisely the position of the decision to be overturned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u42	It's about that, isn't it? Yuri Carmazin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u43	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment must certainly be voted on for confirmation, but let us not harm. All today recognize that the measures that are being taken in society are right that many people cannot be gathered today, and the election situation should not be held hostage to the situation that it is. I'd like to draw your attention to the fact that we've taken 28 of the Digger's amendment, which is written this way: to consider the possibility of mobilizing retired doctors and medical students. The war has not begun; the term “mobilization” is used in a completely different law. That is why I would like to replace the word “involvement” by text, because the word “mobilisation” leads to unnecessary panic, to shame for the state on the outside. What kind of mobilization are you? What are you talking about? Such terms cannot be missed simply. I've been looking, looking, and I'm thinking, clean or not. You're not cleaning. Then I'm paying your attention, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u44	Dear colleagues, we will now return to the 28th Amendment. What line? What could the replica be about? What was your last name called that replica? Dear colleagues, let's do it this way. Now we're going to end up looking at Amendment 30, and then we're going to go back to Amendment 28. There's a problem, let's talk about it. No objections? That's why it's the 30th amendment. The essence of this amendment. It is proposed to recommend that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine remove the position that is effectively prohibited from holding a variety of meetings throughout Ukraine, which gives grounds, as our colleague Yuri Miroshnichenko said, to think, to guess, to assume that this is used to ensure that some have unlimited opportunities and others have been cut off. Clearly, this position is contrary to the right of people to meetings, contrary to the Constitution and the relevant laws. But at the same time, we have to put the vote to support this amendment -- the amendment of Yuri Miroshnick. So, please note, I'm voting on Amendment 30 of Yuri Miroshnicka. Please vote. [[10:30:40]] For 228 Correction supported. Amendment number 28. Well, we're on our way. What's the correction? What's the number? Amendment 30 voted. Well, please, Oleg Lazko. What's the correction?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u45	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, thank you. Dear colleagues! Dear Yuri! You just yesterday, you've been accusing the government for days of knowing about the flu and gathering people in Kiev on the Maidan. Today you vote for the fact that these people can continue to be gathered. Why? And so you're confirming that your accusations to the government are completely groundless and not meaningful, because you, on the one hand, are saying that when the government collects, it's bad.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u46	Thank you. Peacekeeper's replica, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u47	Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear Oleg! Dear colleagues! My amendment is not about our right to meet with voters, it's about the right of voters to meet with those candidates who do. or even discussing election issues with each other. I took care of the rights of citizens, and they will determine where they will participate, where they will not participate. Few are the areas where there is no quarantine, where there is no reason to say that there is a danger for people to gather together. So even from the point of view of constitutional rights, we can't make that decision. So once again, I'm stressing: you can say anything -- politically, morally, and so on -- but it's not something that citizens can limit to their constitutional rights. That's all. I'm a lawyer, and I'm primarily defending the rights of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u48	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we now have in mind the offer of Yuri Carmazin to return to the 28th Amendment. Look, please. There is the proposal of our colleague, Prokopchuk, supported by the committee, of this content: “To consider the possibility of mobilizing pensioners and medical students according to their consent to anti-epidemic measures.” Yuri Karmazin suggests that the word “mobilisation” should be replaced by the word “involvement”. Please, National Deputy Prokopchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u49	Dear colleagues, Yuri Prokopchuk, “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko”. This meant that the word “mobilisation” does not need to be understood as military mobilization, mobilization of forces, mobilization of workers, as they say. But if at the level of a comprehensible apparatus, well, individual MPs, that's actually what I don't deny is that it's an engagement by their consent. By the way, I said, "according to their consent." It can't be forced mobilization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u50	Dear national MPs, perhaps even Comrade Prokopchuk, we will support it. Let's not take the word "mobilisation" after all, because pensioners. Oh, thank you. Then we count. Don't you have to vote? No, it's not. Thank you. 31 Amendment, Sergey Shevchuk. It's counted. Is there no objection? Is it? Adam Martinyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u51	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. And we're just approaching the amendment that I've been paying attention to, the 15th amendment we've taken into account, but instead of the 15th, where we put it in 31st, that's the same thing. Again, it is about taking the Institute from the Academy of Medical Sciences to the Ministry of Health. Then let's make a decision to eliminate the Academy of Medical Sciences. Because they took the Cancer Institute about a year ago. Now we're going to take this institution. There will be another problem tomorrow, another institution will be taken away from us, and there will be no law-abiding academy. So I suggest you put this amendment to confirm and I ask you not to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u52	Sergei Shevchuk, author of the amendment, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u53	I have to repeat my opinion. This amendment refers to the fact that the Ministry of Health of Ukraine jointly, honourable Adam Ivanovich, together with the Academy of Medical Sciences is preparing, offering Kabmin well - founded proposals. If there is no common ground on one side, Kabin will not make a one - sided decision. Well, it's a typical bureaucratic technique, and you're an experienced bureaucrat in a good way. That's how documents are written. And later, the medical community will take on and decide how to actually do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u54	Jaroslav Suhi, please. Then Vladimir Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u55	Dear colleagues, Mr. Sergio, I want to speak to the medics in this room. There was a time when I led a commission that examined the difficult situation at the National Cancer Institute. This cancer center was subordinated to the Academy of Medical Sciences of Ukraine and the normal, calm, effect.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u56	What happened? Microphone, please check. Card, check the card. Oh, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u57	He worked well. Then someone wanted to transfer it from the Academy of Medical Sciences to the Ministry, and they immediately changed the direction, changed everyone, changed all the academics, started the czhardy, failed. We're screwed. We tried to keep them there, we can't do that. There's a team, especially now. Let's end these pandemics, end this disaster, and then we can talk about reorganization. There's nothing to change about transport today. On the contrary, we need to strengthen the scientific component of the struggle, because we don't know until now, the people we're fighting, we don't know the reason for the outbreak, we don't know the diagnosis, we don't understand which lung ventilation equipment we need. This is where shopkeepers with other appliances come in. Science needs to be strengthened in the fight against this scourge. You can't move this institution.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u58	Vladimir Karpuk, then the national deputy of Matthew. Carpupuk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u59	Vladimir Karpuk, MP “For Ukraine!” I ask the MPs to listen to the very right comments of National Deputy Sergei Volodymyrovich Shevchuk, because it is not clear that when institutions or the Academy of Sciences go through sub-orders, it is a bad thing, because when there are no scientific research institutes directly under the Ministry of Health, such as epidemiology, first of all, infectious diseases, it greatly reduces the efficiency of the work of the Institute. We even offered to introduce a chief infectious officer into the Ministry’s headquarters census. And that reduces the efficiency of work. I think that by taking all the pros and cons here, it's really perfectly written down, and we need to accept this. We don't speak explicitly here.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u60	Valentina Matviev, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u61	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, with regard to the 15th amendment of the Lithuanian and Martínjuk National Deputies, the Supreme Council has already been identified, and we should no longer go back to this question. So now there's a proposal to put to a vote, Vladimir Mikhailovich, the 31st amendment to take it into account or not, and to make a general discussion about this problem, because those arguments that are given on both sides, and on the other hand, they have no argument. The argument is one. You, especially as you said, have been approached by leading medical scientists today to confirm that we need to preserve the single system of scientific research and development in the system of the Academy of Medical Sciences. There is no more effective way yet.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u62	Sergey Shevchuk, and now we're going to determine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, two of these regulatory moments. First. Amendment 31 contains two sub-items, and I think you will all agree that we are discussing sub-paragraph 2.2 and are not touching subsection 2.1 at all. And it should not be totally excluded, for it is very faithful. And the second. If we now reject this sub-paragraph 2.2. And before that, we rejected Martinyuk and Lithuania's proposal for removal. Then she'll stay.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u64	Not rejected, but counted. Counted and removed.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u65	Let's vote, but by leaving sub-paragraph 2.1, because it's not about the institute.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u66	Aunt Dmitrovna, please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u67	The Committee supports this amendment because in 2.2, prepare and provide the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine with well-founded proposals for and prepare. But that doesn't mean it's today or tomorrow. That's very right, I support that. This is a practice where such institutions should only be subject to the Ministry of Health. And it's very difficult to separate science from practice in this case. Yesterday, Vladimir Georgievich spoke of this, that the institute itself said that a staff specialist was needed, that he had no relationship to be. We have the Act against Infectious Diseases, adopted in 1996, and there is no new legislation to date. Because there's not the back work that's needed.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u68	Dear colleagues, before making decisions. The discussion is over. How to make decisions, I do. Dear colleagues, I am obliged to tell you that the Academy of Medical Sciences has made a request and has asked you not to make that decision. We signed, I'll just give you some names that I can read. I'll just call you names, they tell you all about it: Wazianov, Kundyev, Zozula, Rosendfeld, Mihnyov, Kovalenko, Buchtiaova, Gaiko, Tronko, Baby, Perkristenko, Kolesnik, Cognit, Serduk, Kundyev, Mariyev, Knishov, Festchenko and so on. And so let's not make hasty decisions under this noise and the noise of fighting the epidemic. That's why I'm betting on the vote, dear colleagues. Dear colleagues, this is a discussion, you've already made your point. Dear colleagues, I'm going to put a motion to the vote, one minute. I'm going to put a motion on the vote to leave us. Dear colleagues, we do not discuss the matter, but we vote amendments and let the ministry sit and listen. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, Ministry, who's going to be there.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u69	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, we support the opinion of our eminent scientists and academics, we have a joint collaboration with the Academy of Medical Sciences and, given this situation, we will be working together to do the tasks that are set for us today.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u70	Ladies and gentlemen, this is the proposal Sergey Shevchuk was talking about. We're going to delete paragraph 2.2, right, or put it on confirmation, if it's not confirmed, it's deleted. And the mission is that the Joint Ministry of Health and the Academy of Medical Sciences remains in place. Is there no objection? Therefore, I would like to vote on the vote of Amendment 31, paragraph 2.2. I'd like to make up my mind. [[10:44:00]] For-162 Paragraph 2.2., Amendment 31 is deleted. Amendment 32 counted. No objections? May I have your attention, please? Amendment 33, People's Deputy Karpuk is counted. No notice? Amendment 34, Tetjana Bacheva, accounted for. No notes? Amendment 35. Counted. No notes? Amendment 36. No notes? Please, Amendment 35. Who? Please, Yuri Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u71	Thank you. No, no. I'm filming my amendment. The fact is that it has indeed been completed: “all other institutions of the institution” are, complemented by “residential homes”. Thank you. Amendment 36. Is there no objection? Counted. Amendment 37. National deputy Karpuk is dismissed. Microphone, please, colleagues of Carpuch.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u72	Vladimir Karpuk, MP “For Ukraine!” Dear colleagues! I'm asking you to read into this amendment that's being proposed, and I suggest you rule it out. “The Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine shall take measures to investigate the causes of the death of the population as a result of the flu disease.” Once again, as in the '50s, there will be a sad case of doctors, they will again blame the doctors, because they didn't provide help when they didn't need medication in the early hours, Tamiflu and so on. [[th m in s a l i]] Sure. That's what I'm talking about. This documentation is currently being selected. You can't. Even, do some analysis, make some recommendations about the clinical treatment protocols for these patients. Again, those who today risk their health and life to help the sick will be blamed. I'm going back to that sad statistic, and I don't want to call it, four medical professionals and doctors are already dead, up to 30 percent of the people and doctors are sick.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u73	Give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u74	Up to 30 percent of doctors in areas where there is an epidemic have become ill. And people really need to be helped, not reenacted, go to prosecutors, give a witness, and so forth. So I ask you to vote and support my proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u75	Yes, Vladimir Landik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u76	I respect my colleague Karpuk, but I want to say, "Happy is who believes." We don't have the Attorney General's Office to deal with the theft of billions of bracelets in the Lugansk region in the coal sector, and there's nothing she can do about it. Because what you write, what you don't write, it won't do anything! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u77	Yuri Klukkowski, then Sergey Shevchuk, then Bondik, then Roman Zvarić.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u78	Thank you. Yuri Klukkowski, "Our Ukraine." I would like to draw attention to the content of this paragraph. We want to have the Attorney General's Office investigate the deaths. Is that what the Supreme Council is reporting to the Attorney General's Office? There is no other investigation than in the case of the discovery of a criminal case, at least for the facts of the crime, in accordance with the legislation on the prosecution. Then please tell me who claims a crime has been committed. And if there is no crime, what are we talking about, what are the orders of the Attorney General?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u79	Sergey Shevchuk, then Bondik, and then Roman Zvaric, and we'll be clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u80	Dear colleagues! As you heard yesterday, the President of Ukraine commissioned the Attorney-General's Office to investigate the activities of the Ukrainian health organizers, and we all know that. In paragraph seven, it is quite different, and it is suggested that the Attorney General’s Office initiate the persecution of doctors who saved the lives of these patients. Yesterday they were Western Ukrainian doctors, today they die in Kiev, tomorrow they will die in eastern Ukraine. And I don't want to get involved, Auntie Dmitry, well maybe in the hospital where you worked, there'll be fatalities. And you want the doctor's case to spread to the company right now? Let's not do anything stupid, political nonsense.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u81	No, dear fellows, this is already under discussion. So let's just call it last name and get it over with. That's enough, they said about the flu epidemic! Let the decision be made so that the work can be done! All of it! Yuri Klukkowski, I already called it. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, I named the last name for it. Well, give me a chance to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u82	Thank you, but I can only emphasize once again: the point is completely unconstitutional. The investigation takes place when a criminal case is discovered, at least on the grounds of the crime. Then I'd like to say who's claiming a crime in this case. Me, for example.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u83	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's do it this way. I'm asking everyone to calm down. Dear colleagues, one minute, we're voting on the amendment, and then we'll be offering. Let's do it this way. Dear colleagues, please: let's make a decision and not tell the Attorney General what she should do. She has the law, she has to be governed by it. That's why I'm asking for your attention! I'm putting to the vote amendment number 37 of the national deputy Karpuk, who has been rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote, number 37. Please. [[10:50:26]] For 246 Decision taken. Correction rejected. So the amendment is accepted, so this point is rejected, well, I mean, well, you're respected colleagues. Amendment 38. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, the amendment was rejected, we voted in favour. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I would like to say that you can give us a chance to work. That's the first one. The other one. We delete this point: “The Attorney General’s Office will take steps to investigate the cause of mass death among the population as a result of influenza.” 246 people voted for it. All of it. Amendment 38. Any warning? None. 38th, please, Roman Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u84	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! This amendment has in fact already been voted on in the previous vote. So if someone insists that this item is kept in the right column, then, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I insist that this paragraph be voted on. Although, again, I point out that in fact, according to the previous vote, this paragraph is removed from the right-hand column.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u85	Dear colleagues! I want to say once again, Amendment 37, it applied to remove this paragraph at all. And Amendment 38, this is an expanded paragraph. It is about giving more meaning. So we need to consider now and 38 separate amendments. Well, if we're going to go after it, we're going to have to look at 38 amendments. It's partially accounted for. National MP Lukyanov, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u86	Lukyanova, “National Self-Defense”. This amendment is not about death, but about the money that comes from the government budget, 50 copies per person in a rural area for the purchase of medicines that are to come every month. They do not come to the village councils. Either this money goes in a completely different direction or on a completely different purchase. I'm asking you to check with the Attorney General's office.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u87	Thank you. Adam Martinyuk. Well, respectable colleagues! We're not going to, it's a discussion, you know, it's a discussion, don't you understand? Do we need to make a decision, or do we all need to express our position now?Oh, my God! The amendment is, I'm voting for the amendment. Everybody calm down. Author of the amendment and head of the committee. Everyone else, get some rest.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u88	Vladimir Mikhailovich, thank you, but the people's deputies have a right to discuss. I am absolutely in favour of your position that 38 amendments, no more talking about them, because at 37 amendments, we took into account that we didn't give any commission to the Attorney General. And the 38 repeats the 37th. This is one moment. The other one. I would ask no one to worry about whether or not the Attorney General's office will work. We know that the President has given her an appropriate mandate, and the Attorney General has already done so. So I'm asking, given that 37 amendments are taken into account, that we don't give any commission to the Attorney General, and 38, by the way, she can't be considered right now, you don't have to look at them.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u89	Dear colleagues! I'm voting on Amendment 38 to confirm it. If she's not supported, she'll be cleared. I'll put it to a vote, please, vote. Please. [[10:54:37]] For-183 The decision is not taken. Correction deleted. Amendment 39. It's considered editorially. Olena Bondarenko, are you insisting on her? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u90	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I think the committee's proposal is not as editorial as it substantially changes the content of the amendment itself. So I would suggest a compromise in this way: “State price control authorities check and the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Attorney-General investigate the facts” and continue to follow up on the text.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, let's perhaps go this way. Just a minute. There is the amendment by Elena Bondarenko, number 39, which reads: “The Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine and the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine investigate the facts of an unjustified and dramatic increase in prices for necessary medical supplies and personal protection in the pharmacy network.” I put to the vote this amendment on its support, and I ask you to vote. [[10:55:59]] For 383 Correction accepted. Amendment 40 of this content. Please note, fellow Members, because we have already considered the amendment: “A/H1N1 and GHS control by using the budget allocated to prevent the spread of the epidemic and to treat the influenza type A/H1N1 and GHS among the population will be placed on the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Health and Budget.” Yuri Klukkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u92	Thank you. Yuri Klukkowski, “Our Ukraine”. It seems to me that in this way we are changing the decisions established by the Constitution and the law of authorization of the Court of Auditors, because this is its direct authorization. That's why we're either going to write the House of Accounts here, or we're going to delete the item.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u93	Ladies and gentlemen. Roman Zvaric, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u94	Dear colleagues, I would ask that we do not bring this document to a standstill. Here it is proposed to delegate to the Supreme Council the supervisory functions of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This cannot be done, it is contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine. I would ask that we listen to the arguments that have just been heard.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u95	Sergei Shevchuk. Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, yesterday, when we voted in favour of the draft Law on Changes to the State Budget regarding the allocation of one billion dollars for these purposes, the head of the committee, Mikola Ivanovich Derkac, officially announced that a commission of representatives, experts of all factions, and opposition, and coalitions would be created to carry out control functions at the expense of this billion. So duplicating and strengthening the role of the two committees, which all equally have the same rights, I think, is not appropriate. We all want these funds to go to the coin, but excessive duplication of functions is probably not worth it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u97	Thank you. Let's do one of the factions. Mikhailo Chechetov. Please! We've already gone into discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u98	Dear colleagues, well, the Court of Auditors, she knows what to do without us, it is her direct function to control the use of budgetary resources, including in this direction. This is about strengthening the control of both our committees and the Health Committee, and on the same budget issues, to strengthen control. We can also report here to the Court of Auditors. This is the case when you don't spoil the mess with oil, given the huge amount of money that's been blown up, starting with another 50 million, and it's not clear where the next money went.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u99	Ladies and gentlemen, here is a good suggestion made by Roman Mikhailovich Zvaric that the committees are obliged to carry out control functions in their direction. If we have to stress once again that we have to do our job, I'm going to put this proposal to the vote. I vote in favour of Amendment 40, which is counted by the committee. Please vote, please. [[10:59:44]] For 236 Decisions were made. Correction. Decision taken. Amendment 41. The committee counted it. Is there no objection? The substance of the amendment is to hear a report from the Cabinet of Ministers on the progress of the implementation of this decree, not on December 17th, but on December 18th, which is the next plenary week on Wednesday. December, December! I'm sorry, December. Excuse me, December. This means that we can ensure that this decision is implemented. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, what, dear colleagues, might there be suggestions for this, please. Do we have to vote on this amendment? Oh, no? all amendments have been voted on. The committee's proposal is to adopt a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the first-ever measures against the spread of pandemic flu in Ukraine in second reading and in general as a determination. [[Registration number 5302]] Please vote. Take down the vote. What? Adam Martinyuk and then Yuri Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u100	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, please repeat the name of the decision again because you read it the old way. We agreed with you on the proposal of the committee that this decision is called in a different way -- a situation that has arisen in connection with the flu epidemic and pandemic flu A/HINI and the primary measures against its spread.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u101	Thank you for clarifying that. Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u102	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! All our regulations are printed. It's got to be a pattern for people to think about. We voted in the previous paragraph, but we removed and did not respond to the comments of our colleague Klukkowski, where he spoke of control, about the House of Auditors, about the Cabinet of Ministers. Please consider whether we have allocated funds to the Ministry of Health. And who will control how the Ministry used it? Of course, the supervisory authorities in the government will control, that is, the KLA is bound to control, and the Court of Auditors, which is subordinated to us, is obliged to control. We're shutting them down. So I would ask you, before finalizing the decision, to write down there that according to the Constitution of Ukraine is carried out by the Court of Auditors, government and other committees, as it is. It would be for purity, for legal purity, for us to act within and in the manner provided for in the Constitution, as provided for in article 19 of the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u103	Ladies and gentlemen, let's make this decision and deal with it. That we can't copy in the draft the decrees of each controlling authority. Let's, one minute, let's go after the decision is taken, signed, I'll send this order with a letter to the Audit Chamber with a proposal to ensure that the Supreme Council of Ukraine controls and submits the necessary materials by December 10th in order for the relevant committees to generalise and ensure that the matter is prepared for consideration on December 18, 2009. I would ask Yuri Anatoliyovich to support such an offer. And given what we are. Okay, yeah, we got a deal. Dear colleagues, given that we have decided to specify the name of the decision, and it is now called: “The situation in relation to the influenza epidemic and pandemic A1/N1N1 flu, and the primary measures of opposition and proliferation”, I am voting on the proposal for adoption in the second reading and in general as the law of the draft relevant decision at Registration No 5302. Please vote. It's a determination, dear colleagues. [[11:04:15]] For 424 I'll take the order. Thank you. I ask the Committee, Tetian Dmitry Bachtiev, along with the Legal Department to prepare this for publication. Please, Aunt Dmitrovna, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u104	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Ukraine will never be able to meet global challenges if we talk about health care only during a situation that exists today or during the electoral period alone. We will never be able to save the lives of our Ukrainians if six bracelets are allocated for treatment, and three bracelets for a hospital patient at $100 in a doctor's salary. We will never be a civilized State if it is our children's health that we are obliged to pay for our parents' pockets today, but not the State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u105	Dear national, distinguished national MPs, we have apparently adopted an important document that is supposed to consolidate us all for the work and government, and for the Supreme Council, and for the local authorities. Dear colleagues, according to the schedule of the sitting on the order, we are considering hearing a report by the Minister of Health of Knazević on the situation in Ukraine’s pharmaceutical market in connection with the restructuring of the public health authorities of the quality and safety of medical devices. Registration number 5035. So obviously, let's postpone the consideration of this issue. Now let the Ministry handle the execution of regulations, other issues. I'd like to ask the authors who insisted. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, I'd like to ask you not to insist on this. Do we need to vote, or do we put the question on hold without a vote? We're putting it off? Thank you. Now, honourable colleagues, we need to include two bills in the agenda: this is a bill, registration number 5123, draft law amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts. [[about ensuring a healthy lifestyle]] I'm betting on the vote to put the matter in order of the day. Please vote. [[11:06:47]] For 336 We put questions in the agenda. Now the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Law on Amendments to certain laws of Ukraine, registration number 5230. [[on increased control of the sale of alcohol and tobacco products]] Please vote for inclusion in the agenda. [[11:07:24]] For three hundred Decision taken. Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, we supported the good idea of fighting for a healthy way of life, but I would like to see two drafters of the bill and Valery Pisarenko, and especially the Ministry of Youth and Sports ask you to approach our legislative base more closely, especially the Ministry of Youth and Sports. This bill that we included is 99 percent of the text of the bill that we voted on, 384 votes, more than six months ago. So our task is to accelerate consideration 1171, there's an absolute majority prepared for second reading and. Because I feel that the more laws we register about healthy lifestyles and against alcoholism, the less we accept, the less we want to accept. So, first of all, I would ask the committee of Sergei Anatoliyovich Teryochin to speed up the submission to the second reading of our bill that we passed. The other one. The Ministry reads laws that have already been passed, and apparently at the level of proposals. And likewise, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like to ask, we have a cunning scheme, that when we introduce into a single bill, we make changes to ten bills and register on a committee that has nothing to do with these laws. So if this is about making changes to the Alcohol Act, it's the Committee of Terjehohine, it's the Committee of Freedom of Speech. We've got a Swedish committee here, we're going to balance all the work we're doing. For six months now, we've been discussing how we can ban drinking in public places, and now we're going to have a new committee looking at Sweden. So these two bills I would like to send to those committees that are looking at this basic bill that we've adopted as a basis and we're preparing for a second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u107	Ladies and gentlemen, let us move on to the second reading. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine, registration number 4396, is being announced for consideration. [[on the protection of the labour rights of citizens]] The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Justice, Valérie Pisarenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u108	People’s Honourable Deputies, Supreme Council 9.06 B.C.E. 09. The decision was taken on the basis of the first reading of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the protection of the labour rights of citizens, registration number 4396. I would like to remind you that the bill proposes to amend the Ukrainian Law on Measures to Ensure the Permanent Functioning of Fuel and Energy Enterprises and the Ukrainian Law on Executive Conduct. It is appropriate to withdraw the moratorium on the execution of executive orders for these enterprises in cases where decisions are made to collect arrears on wages and other employee payments in connection with employment relationships and to restore the rights and interests of the retractors involved in the executive conduct. During the drafting of the bill and its preparation for the second reading to the committee, there were four proposals and amendments to the legislative initiative. All the proposals were fully taken into account. The proposals involved clarifying the list of cases that are not subject to a moratorium on executive conduct. I would like to emphasize that the draft of the bill is prepared for the second reading. There was also agreement with the Supreme Council Committee on the issues of the fuel and energy complex. The proposed regulation thus removes the violation of the constitutional rights of citizens to receive their remuneration at the right time and preserves the guarantees of companies in the fuel and energy complex. So the Justice Committee at its meeting decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to ensure the protection of the rights of employees of the fuel and energy complex, adopted on second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u109	Dear colleagues, all the amendments that have been made, the committee recommends that consideration be given. Do the Ukrainian National Deputies have objections to recommending amendments to the Committee? None. So I'm voting on the second reading of the draft law amending some of the laws of Ukraine. [[on the protection of the labour rights of citizens]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:12:16]] For 213 The decision is not taken. Please write down the reasons for the vote. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u110	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense." The Party of Motherland Defenders. Obviously, not everyone understood what this law was about when it was adopted in the first reading, but first of all, the question was that the constitutional requirement of protecting the rights of all citizens was not being fulfilled in the same way. Because in a fuel-energy complex, you can't charge a salary on judges' decisions. Think about what it is. And I think it was wrong to give a team to one respectable and large faction not to vote. I realize that there are owners, they're sitting among them, and so on, who have these factories in this area, but you can't do that. Court decisions are to be made, after six months, after a year, no wages are paid in these enterprises. That's what this law is all about, these workers who work in fuel.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u111	Pisarenko Valeriy Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, let's really take another look at the essence of this law. Well, we don't have the most poor fuel-power complex to avoid paying wages and covering up a moratorium. We've been running this law through Parliament for a long time, and you know, when on some scales it's people's wages, and on others it's fuel-energy complex and its enterprises that we have to choose. Let's go back to the vote. I think it's just that not all MPs have figured out what the point is, and we're just going to take down the moratorium on payments that people are paying today. Because today everyone's fighting for social standards, and here in a separate complex that trades in oil, gas and everything else, we have such exclusive rights that we don't pay people's wages. So let's probably be consistent, if you raise your salary, you have to pay it. I ask you to return to the vote and support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u113	Mishchenko Sergei Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u114	Dear colleagues! We need to approach this law, not selectively, but systematicly. Why? We say that we are guarding people’s interests. But in this vote that has now passed, I'm sure that not all have resolved the essence of this law. We need to ask now that our citizens at this critical time of financial crisis can get the money they deserve. And by rejecting this law, we do them such a service that they will then be very grateful to us. So I'm asking you to go back to the vote and yet, I'm sure that common sense here will win, and we will vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u115	Bondarenko Volodymyr Dmitrovic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u116	Dear colleagues and listeners who can hear us! I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Constitution guarantees equality of rights for all citizens regardless of: place of residence, age, skin color, occupation, nationality, religious affiliation and so forth. Why is it that today, in Ukrainian legislation, there is a special group of representatives of the fuel and energy complex who are deprived of a certain degree of rights to defend their interests. I'm pointing out that this needs to be corrected by this law, that's the first. And secondly, it was a vote, like a test of sincerity. Recently, there were individual factions here, including one that was the largest, which did not vote in favour of the law at all – raising minimum wages and social standards. So why are you today, having such positions in that law, pianizing and not voting today to protect the rights of those who work for your major enterprises in the Eastern region? So be honest and let us vote together!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u117	Dear colleagues, we've been exchanging thoughts, in fact, a bill designed to protect the constitutional rights of citizens, the right to receive the money they don't pay. I'm voting on the proposal to go back to voting on this bill. [[11:17:47]] For 255 We're back. I am voting on the second reading and, in general, as a law, the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the protection of the labour rights of citizens]] I'd like to make a statement. [[11:18:19]] For 377 Decision adopted, the Law as a whole is approved. A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation is being announced, registration number 4430. [[on simplifying the order of acquisition of land rights]] Please, Valery Fedorovich Bevanko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u118	Dear colleagues, you are being reviewed by the draft Ukrainian Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts. [[on simplifying the acquisition of land rights]] [[Registration number 4430]] In the drafting of the bill, 63 proposals were made, of which 36 were included, 13 were rejected, 14 were partially and editorially taken into account. I would like to thank you especially for your active work in drafting the bill to the people’s deputies Carmazin, Serbin, Laszka, and Tkachu. The main position of the bill is to eliminate the old design phase of land collection, namely: agreeing to their location. The adoption of the bill will shorten the deadlines for the development of projects of withdrawal and the cost of producing them at least twice. The bill also envisages the implementation of land removal projects based on the principle of “one wreath”, the commission of all consenting authorities and the establishment of clear deadlines for such agreement. In addition, the bill includes provisions that make it easier to acquire ownership of the land in connection with the transfer of ownership to the housing home. The Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations at its meeting recommended that the bill be adopted in second reading and generally as a law. Similarly, the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council is of the same opinion. But after the committee's consideration, two comments were received from the Serbian National MP on clarifying the drafting of the two articles of the bill, namely, article 186-1 of the Ukrainian Code of Land, which was proposed to supplement part of the content: “This is how the position on the commission and the regulation of its work is approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine.” This is amendment 39 of the Serbian People's Deputy. It's also part of a friend. Part four of article 9 of the Land Rental Act: “No sale of leased land of state or municipal property shall be allowed without the consent of the tenant.” Thus, part of Serbian amendment 49 is taken into account. In view of the above, please support the bill and accept it in the second reading and generally as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u119	Thank you, Valery Fedorovich. Let us now consider the amendments made by the legislators. Valérie Fedorovich, especially to you, that the second reading procedure provides for the duty to consider the amendments made by the subject of the legislative initiative. The amendment by Yuri Sergiyovich Serbina number 1 is partially taken into account. Doesn't it insist on a national MP? Don't insist. Amendment No. 2 of the Titenko People's Deputy is dismissed. Is the National MP insisting? Don't insist. Amendment number 3. Is there any objection to the committee's recommendation to consider the amendment? None. Amendment No. 4 of the Karmazin People's Deputy. The committee recommends a rejection. Does the deputy insist? He insists. Please, the microphone of the People's Deputy Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u120	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! This is about article 20. And so I'm going to base and complement, and I'm going to say why the 20th article doesn't have to be complemented by positions on land use within a certain category of land, it's useless. Since this article, according to its name, setting up and altering the destination of land, sets out the order in which land is to be placed in a given category and changes in its purpose, but not the right to use it. That is why I propose to supplement already Article 95 “The rights of land users” with part 3 of the following content: “By way of using the land within a certain category of land, other than agricultural land and land, the defences are determined by the owner or user of the land on their own within the limits laid down by law prior to the use of the land of this category, taking into account urban documentation.” That's why the speech goes. So 20, but I'm sending it to 95, and I'm saying why it's not relevant to 20. Thank you for your attention. I don't understand why it's not easy to count. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u121	Please give your argument, Valery Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u122	I'll make it clear. The suggestion that this proposal by Mr. Carmazin refers to the transfer of the standard of part five of the bill to article 25, which is impossible, since article 5 of the Code of Land 20, which is supplemented by the Code of Land, is distributed to all land rights at a time when article 95 applies only to rights of use.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u123	Amendment No. 4 of the Karmazin People’s Deputy is subject to a vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:24:38]] For-21 Correction not supported. Amendment No. 5 of the Karmazin People's Deputy. The committee also recommends a rejection. Does the deputy insist? He insists. Please, the microphone of the People's Deputy Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u124	Yuri Carmazin. You know, your honor, when we get packages of 10 laws, then I agree with the laws, you see, including that law that is declared unconstitutional about elections, that all the amendments that Karmazin made, then the Constitutional Court said they should have been taken into account. So let's do it in this protocol law for history. I realize I'm not in the mood to vote, but that's a different question. I believe that the addition of Article 20 to the obligations in the execution of land within a given category of land is inappropriate, since this article, in accordance with its title “Installation and Change of Land Destination”, sets out the order of assignment of land to a given category and changes in their purpose, but does not require use. That is why I requested that article 96 be supplemented by parts 1.1 and 1.2 of this content: “The land parcels of the land are used by their owners or users only within the limits of the land use requirements of a specific target, as set out in articles 31,33, 34.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u125	Yuri Anatolyevich, your amendment is in the table, so all deputies have eyes on it. Amendment No. 5 shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:26:21]] For-32 Correction not supported. 6th Amendment of the Serbian People's Deputy. The committee also recommends a rejection. Yuri Sergiyovich insists? No, it doesn't. Amendment number seven. The committee recommends that we consider it. Is there no objection? None. Amendment number 8. Is there a miscalculation? None. Amendment number nine. Partially counted. Valerius Fedorovich, is the editor good for you?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u126	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u127	It's fine. A. Amendment number nine? 8. Amendment number 8. There's a warning. National MP Klukkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u128	Thank you. I don't care about amendment number 8 as much as the part of the sixth that it refers to, where it's said that the application should be submitted to the appropriate administration or local self-government at the location of the respective area. However, as far as I can remember, we do not have a territory where there is no administration or self - government. At the same time, they both work. So where is the citizen supposed to apply? We have created a two - channel system and do not solve the problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u129	Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u130	The Codex earth clearly states where and in what cases this statement is being considered. It's usually in the administration. In some cases, however, these claims are also considered by local authorities. That is why there is an emissary, but the Codex of the Earth clearly describes where these statements are being considered.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u131	Yuri Bogdanovich, don't you insist on voting? No, it doesn't. Amendment No. 10 of the People's Deputy Twacha. Is there any objection to the committee's recommendations to be taken into account?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u132	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u133	None. Amendment number 11, People's Deputy Tuck. Any objections to the committee's recommendation?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u134	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u135	None. 12 revisions. National MP Bevanko, do you agree with the editorial?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u136	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u137	The 13th is the same. No objections?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u138	I won't.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u139	14th Amendment. Is there a miscalculation? None. 15th?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u140	None.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u141	None. 16th People's Deputy Twacha. There's no objection. 17th Amendment of the People's Deputy Mitenko. Is there a miscalculation? None. 18th. People's Deputy Carmazin. 17th? There's a warning after the 17th amendment. National MP Klukkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u142	It seems to me that the text of the 17th amendment is completely inappropriate. Look what we're writing. “the matter shall be settled in a court of law”. Is that what the court is all about? Because it's a land issue. It seems to me that the jurisdiction of the court does not include the allocation of land. That is to say, “the decision can be brought before a court” rather than “the question is settled in a court of law”.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u143	Please repeat the microphone of the people's deputy of Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u144	The amendment foresees that if the issue of land allocation is refused, it is decided in court. This means that the court is authorized to allocate land. But that's an absurd requirement. Accusing a refusal to appear before a court is understandable, but forcing the courts to set aside land is probably incorrect.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u145	I think we understand the question essentially here is whether or not it's being considered. The court does not accept of course. We have cases where the courts accept the rules of law and approve its decisions, but that's what happens. But in historical decisions to show contempt for the laws. But it's usually the decision of self-government or government, so there's a suggestion that just when we're preparing this law for signature, we're going to work editorially to get it right, that it's going to be a civil dispute and a local self-government or a public authority. No objections? Amendment 18, National Deputy Carmazin. Do you object to her being counted? Please, it's Deputy Carmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u146	Yuri Carmazin. Dear people's deputies, it was quite right there, my amendment: Part 11 deletes. That's the part that tells us what we're writing right now, what's going on in court. It's being sued, but it's being decided again by the same authorities. And what we now have is such a practice, that by judicial decisions, including here in Gruszewski, 9, where the Cave hills are now sliding, where the historical value of Kiev is now being destroyed, decided in court -- that's insane. We practice this abnormal practice and are legitimized in this law. So this is a previous amendment. My correction, correct, taken into account. Thank you. But once again, I'm stressing what my colleagues are saying right now: you can't write it down like that. It's unconstitutional. Local authorities and self - government are required to decide. And the court can decide the issue, that's all. And then they're going to decide how to do it again. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u147	Are you insisting on voting on your amendment? Yuri Anatolyovich? Please follow the text, as it is now your amendment No. 18, which the committee recommends to take into account. Do you mind? You don't mind. Do you insist on voting? 19 Amendments. Is there a miscalculation? 20 revisions. Is there a miscalculation? 21 revisions. Yuri Sergiyovich, do you insist? Don't insist. 22 revisions. Is there no objection? The 23rd amendment. Is there a denial? None. Twenty-four repairs? Is there a denial? None. 25 revisions. Is there a denial? None. 26 amendments. Is there a denial? None. 27, is there a objection?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u148	None.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u149	28th, is there a objection?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u150	None.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u151	29th, is there a objection?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u152	None.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u153	None. 30 amendments, Yuri Sergiyovich, do you insist? Don't insist. 31 Amendment, Deputy Titenko insists? Don't insist. 32 Amendment, Is There a Objection? None. 33, are there any objections?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u154	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u155	None. 34th, is there a denial?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u156	No, there isn't.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u157	35th, is there a objection?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u158	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u159	36th, is there a objection?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u160	No, there isn't.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u161	37th, the national MP, Serbin, does not insist on his amendment. 38th, is there a miscalculation?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u162	No, there isn't.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u163	There's no objection. 39th?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u164	They counted it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u165	Yuri Sergiyovich Serbin, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u166	A compromise editorial was found with Bevjenko, a fellow member of the committee. He read it and I ask him to vote. It's a compromise editorial that we found with him. Please read again Valérie, “the position of the commission is approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine”.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u167	Dear colleagues, we have a problem. We cannot vote in a single vote. But if there's a consensus of the entire session room we can ad-hock move away from this regulatory standard. Is there any objection to us now considering the standard to be heard in the session room without her presence in the table? Is there anyone who denies it? There is not, therefore, please, a word of the norm proposed by the Serbian people's deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u168	In addition, article 186 of the Ukrainian Code of Land, as proposed, should be added to part of the following content: “The position of the commission and its regulations are approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine”, is a dot.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u169	Is there any objection to that? There's no objection. Amendment number 40, do you mind?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u170	No, there isn't.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u171	41st, is there a objection?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u172	No, there isn't.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u173	42nd? Xenia Mikhailovna Leapina, please. Do you mind?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u174	Nemiea.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u175	You agree with the deviation. 43, is there a denial?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u176	No, there isn't.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u177	44th, is there a denial?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u178	No, there isn't.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u179	45th? Please, National Deputy Klukkowski. Amendment No. 45 of the people's representative of Tkacha.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u180	Thank you. I'd like to ask the rapporteur, maybe explain how I understand from the content of the amendment taken into account, that every member of the committee has the right to veto a decision because a decision is considered to be made only if there is not a single member of the committee. Don't you think that's how the work of the commission always risks being blocked, enough for one person to be disagreeable, and nothing is taken. Well, it's a well-known version of the noble veto in the Polish seismics of the first Postpolita.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u181	Please, your argument.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u182	That's why we added this article to the Cabinet of Ministers, because we think that if one of the members of the committee makes their comments, these comments have to be sent back to those who are submitting the project. And the rest of the notes, they are. The rest of the board members are considered accepted, signed. But it has to be written in a position that will be developed by the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u183	People's deputy Klukkowski's microphone, please. Klukkowski Yuri Bogdanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u184	Thank you. Well, don't you understand that in the event that two members of the commission make incompatible proposals or inconsistent remarks at one point, the commission is deadlocked because it can't take two mutually exclusive remarks into account at the same time. And so you create a situation where the problem simply, in principle, cannot be solved or someone begins to block it specifically so that the problem is not solved. So I think it's an irrational step for a collegiate body. Write the qualified majority, write the right to an individual opinion, but write down the possibility of making a complaint. But giving each member of the committee the right to veto and block a decision, I don't think it's very rational.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u185	With regard to the amendment number 45, Deputy Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u186	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, I would like to point out that Klukkowski is right, but only in another. The point is that Amendment 45 is not going to be taken into account. If it is thought to be counted because it was not in the left column, the left column contains a clever text. It says that the commission carries out its activities in the form of meetings that are held and so forth. The results are drawn up by a decision signed by all members in the event of disagreement, and he signs the decision with the footnotes “out of note”. Now it's leveling out. So I'm proposing a 45 amendment, which is considered by the committee, which is now rejected. I think the reporter clearly understands that this should be done. I mean, vote for her confirmation, and I'm asking her to say no. So we're going to take into account the comments of my colleague Klukkowski, go back to common sense -- to the text that was adopted in the first edition of this project, and make sure that it's finally normal. What's more, if I don't take too much of a word, I'd like us to take a look at the scientific expertise that brought us back to this kind of thing, right, in this general way. Thank you for your attention. Please put support to the vote 45.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u187	Serbian Yuri Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u188	We did a new edition together with colleague Bevzenka because there were contradictions. There are two ways to get out of this situation: either to support the proposal made by Deputy Carmazin and to reject Bebezenka's proposal, or to delete this sentence from this proposal: “The document of the Land Authority is considered agreed upon if the conclusion of the Commission is signed by all its members without notice”. This is to rule out either this phrase, or to support Karmazin’s offer that colleague Bevjenko would agree with it or with it. And then she's going to respond to this amendment so you can vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u189	Amendment No. 45 of the People’s Deputy Twača shall be subject to a vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:41:48]] For-12. Correction not supported. 46th Amendment, People's Deputies Bevanka. Is there a miscalculation? None. 47th Amendment. Is there a miscalculation? None. 48th Amendment. Is there a miscalculation? National Deputy Stojko, do you mind? No, it's not. 49th Amendment. Yuri Sergiyovich. Please, the microphone of the Serbian People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u190	There's also, because here in the first place, I'm sorry, it was ridiculous. There's also a compromise that I'd like to vote on, just like the 39th amendment. And then this law will not violate any Ukrainian law. I ask, or I can read, or let him read a better reporter, there to exclude some words you need and let him go.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u191	Please, Valery Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u192	In the alternative that we agreed to, I will read part four, article nine of the Ukrainian Land Rent Act, and put it in the following wording: “No sale of leased land of state or municipal property shall be allowed without the consent of the tenant.” This is sub-paragraph 3, para. 2, section one of the bill and dot, then put a dot.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u193	Is there any objection to such an editorial? None. Roger that. Is there a denial against 50 amendments? None. 51 The Amendment Is Objection? Is there a denial in 52nd? None. 53rd. Is there a denial?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u194	No, there isn't.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u195	None. 54th? Yuri Sergiyovich? Agreed with the deviation. 55th? I'm good. 56th, is there a miscalculation?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u196	No, there isn't.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u197	There's no objection. 57th, is there a objection? Yes. Please, the microphone of the People's Deputy of Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u198	Thank you. I don't object as much to the amendment as I do to the table. It's written that 57 amendments are included. However, the text in the right column does not match the text of the amendment. I mean, it's probably taken into account editorially and it's missing, from my point of view, a very important point in the parentheses in the amendment, "except for the multi-rooms". It seems to me that this is a very serious amendment because there may otherwise be questions for apartment buildings. Therefore, when editing, if the amendment has been taken into account, at least it should be taken into account for the entire revision, or it should be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u199	Please explain Valery Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u200	We have clarified 377 articles, including because we have excluded the concept of “except multi-room”. Because if you read the article in the article we gave, it is logical and understandable. Yes, I agree with Mr. Klukkowski that we should take partial account. You don't have to, you have to read it, you have to read it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u201	Dear Valérie Fedorovich, here is a question that is rightly asked by the national deputy of Klukkowski. What about apartment buildings? Here's the question, please answer it. There is no answer. There is a proposal for a committee to consider Amendment 57 in the text where this matter is resolved. There's a denial against taking into account the wording that we have in the comparative table -- Amendment 57. Is the text of the amendment denied? There's no objection, so we have a discrepancy in the right column, it just has to be corrected according to a decision that was adopted by a committee on the recommendation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. 58 revisions. Is there a denial?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u202	No, there isn't.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u203	None. 59th. Is there a denial?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u204	No, there isn't.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u205	None. 60th. Is there a denial?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u206	None.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u207	61st. There's a denial.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u208	None.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u209	62nd. Is there a denial?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u210	None.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u211	63 revisions. Is there a denial?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u212	None.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u213	There's no objection. So we've discussed with you all the amendments made to this draft law in the second reading. I am voting on the second reading of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[Registration number 4430]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:47:48]] For 331 Decision taken. Dear Valérie Fedorovich, please, do you think that we need to vote in our third reading?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u214	In our opinion, the 17th amendment must be left in the order in which we have proposed and adopted the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u215	If we're going to change anything else now, I want to remind you that this is a mandatory subject then the third reading. Please, the microphone of the People's Deputy Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u216	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I strongly call your attention to a paradoxical situation where the authorities of the state, the authorities of local self-government in the event of your refusal, let's say, on your application to issue to you a plot of land on Krestretika. They turn to the court and judge where, when, and for how much land to sell there. It's absurd, it doesn't fit either the Constitution or the law. And this absurdity is now recorded in the 17th amendment. So either we're reprocessing or we're sending a third-reading bill, because it can't go through and exist in such an editorial. We're completely replacing this with a single judge's decision, and that's definitely going to be the veto law applied to this law. We have no right to go there. I'd like to make a legally flawless edit here, namely, what might be a charge against the court, and then the decision is taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u217	Dear colleagues, you and I have agreed that this will be edited and this is an assignment to the committee of profile and the General Legal Department. Here's the question. In general, the word “question” can be replaced by the word “controversy” and it will already be understood what this is about. But I'm opposed to decisions like this where it's about legal engineering. So I did not hear any objection to this task of drafting the amendment correctly. So can we put it to a vote as a whole? We can. I am voting on the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on simplifying the order of acquisition of land rights]] [[Registration number 4430]] Please vote. [[11:50:47]] For 351 The law has been passed in general. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on the activities of non-profit organizations is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 4563]] Sergey Mikolaiovich Ribuk reports. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u218	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to refresh your memory about the content of the law that we are now considering in our second reading. We haven't talked once about how the development of agricultural cooperatives is an important way to build an agricultural sector. And on this point, the authorities and all the political forces are unanimous. Unfortunately, however, the formation of a cooperative movement in the agricultural sector has been restrained. And it's restrained, basically, by two factors. This is the imperfection of legislation and the lack of State support for agricultural and service cooperation. Of course, under the circumstances, financial hardship is difficult for peasants to count on government substantial financial support. So let's finish the step we've taken to help people create agricultural service cooperatives. So this is about giving agricultural cooperatives the status of a legal person, as I emphasize, a non-profit organization. Because today, with such imperfect legislation, serving cooperatives are not actually created. Thus, the law and the essence are to recognize the activities of farm workers as nonprofits. Regarding the comments made on this bill, prepared for the second reading. There are six observations by two national deputies, colleagues of Seminoga and Carmazin. All of these proposals have been considered. The suggestions of the national deputy Anatolia Ivanovich Seminoga did not find support because they offered preferences not only to members of the service cooperatives but also to others. Of course, we simply cannot support such an offer, since then many want to become a so - called agricultural cooperative and become an illegal nonprofit organization. Regarding Karmazin’s proposals. We have partly considered but not included in terms of terminology when a national MP proposes to introduce a different concept. “Non-profit society” we propose that the law does not change terminology. And now I'm asking the chairman for amendments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u219	Dear Sergey Mikolaiovich, I would also like to ask you to give a point of view to the committee on the conclusion of the Main Legal Authority in part of the disagreement with other laws of Ukraine, and especially with regard to 95 of the Constitution on how expenditure from the State Budget can be planned in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u220	Of course, we have to agree with well - founded legal proposals, but unfortunately they are not all included in the amendments. But we're proposing the very basic, I'd say, proposal and ministry of agrarian politics, and the legal administration that we unfortunately got after the committee's consideration, to take into account what they say. Now, just a second. The Legal Authority, in order to make paragraph 15 “Agricultural service cooperative, non-profit society created by natural persons”, the Legal Authority and the Ministry propose to add “a” or “farm farms” and beyond the text. Of course, it would be right out of common sense that if we had voted today to accept this proposal from the judiciary and the Ministry, it would have substantially complemented the law, allowing farmers, managers, to create power-operated cooperatives.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u221	So this is actually the subject of ugly second reading or third reading, as proposed by the Chief Legal Authority. But in accordance with the Rules, we are going to consider amendments. Amendment No. 1 of the Seminoga People's Deputies. Is the MP insisting on his amendment? No, it doesn't. Amendment 2. [[People’s Deputy Karmazin]] Please, the microphone of the People's Deputy Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u222	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Alexander Volodymyrovich, first of all, I would like to address you. Members of our faction have turned on: an air conditioner with so much strength that soon there won't be any faction members here, we'll just get sick, you know? I've been talking to you for the second time, and we've been talking to all the deputies, and we can't work like this. You want us to get up, let's go? We can go, but it's probably not good when there's an epidemic, and we're being tortured like that right now. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that it is in line with the idea of the main legal administration that I would like to leave the paragraph “in” in its original form, and in the paragraph “is” to complement the words “agricultural cooperatives established to provide services exclusively to members of the service providers” after the words “defined by law”. So, in part, this is really taken into account, but we have to agree with the editorial that is now being proposed by scientific and legal.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u223	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u224	Thank you. So I would like to point out that, in any case, we need to find some middle way out by substantiating this amendment, by taking this word that we can go beyond the laws on cooperation, on agricultural cooperation in this law, and then there will be a need for a third reading of this law. I'd like to hear the opinion of the committee head. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u225	Before you answer, I want to inform you that information on the need for the temperature in the session room to be put in order has long been given. And I think he's about to hear the Governing Body do his work properly. Otherwise, it will be done by another. I'd ask you to if you didn't. You can't get that on the phone, so you can just hear it on the air. Please, your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u226	Indeed, that proposal, which has just been made by Deputy Carmazin, is consistent with the proposals made by the Legal Authority, and if we accept it, and the committee in this case, I will allow myself to assure myself that it will not expressly deny and take into account the amendment tabled by Karmazin, we will therefore take into account the observations made by the Legal Authority, and this will make the law more perfect and will not need to be tolerated in the third reading. So if the national MPs support Deputy Carmazin, we don't deny it, we also support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u227	Amendment No. 2 of the Karmazin People’s Deputy takes the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:00:01]] For-123 The decision is not taken. Correction not supported. Amendment number 3. The Seminog National MP insists? Don't insist. Amendment number 4. Don't insist. Amendment number 5. National Deputy Carmazin. Yuri Anatolyevich, do you insist? Please, Karmazin Yuri Anatoliovich's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u228	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! Dear Head! I'm asking questions about definition. It defines what “a farm-based service cooperative” is. I propose to define this as a “non-profit organization created by natural persons by agricultural producers to provide services exclusively to members of a service cooperative with the aim of promoting their agricultural activities” because otherwise we are going out. It's a tax law, we have to understand that it's a tax law, and it can't be unlimited to everyone. extended. So I can't understand why this concept disagrees with the committee. What the goal is, especially, is that these observations actually coincide with what I didn't know, suggesting that there would be such observations in the legal office. But they do, you see, match up with a couple of lawyers. That's why I'm asking you to say it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u229	Please, Sergey Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u230	Not only are they not taken into account from the point of view of terminology, because we already have the law of agricultural cooperatives as a non-profit society throughout the bill. Of course, if we call it a non-profit organization, that's the only thing we have left: the whole law changes this terminology, and there's nothing left. So let the national MPs be defined. It's just in shape, not content.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u231	Amendment No. 5 of the Karmazin People’s Deputy takes the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:02:31]] For-31 Correction not supported. Amendment number six, National Deputy Seminog. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u232	Anatoly Seminoga, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. I have a request. I fully agree with the concept introduced in this bill by the committee, and those amendments that are not included, I'm taking them down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u233	Thank you. So we've considered all the amendments. None of them are supported. Thus, the original text, which was given by the Cabinet of Ministers, remained unchanged. Please, the Ministry's point of view.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u234	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies! The Ministry of Agrarian Policy, taking into account the comments made by the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, made proposals to the committee to take into account another disagreement that is highlighted by the legal administration, namely paragraphs 7.11.3 and 4 of the Law on Business Income Taxation. We propose in paragraph 3 of the first paragraph of the first draft, the figure 7.11.3 should be replaced by 7.11.4, because it is this sub-paragraph 7.11.4 that exempts the income of non-profit organizations defined in paragraph “in”, paragraph 7.11.1, that paragraph “in” and supplemented by agricultural cooperatives. Request, account and support, also by the honorable Sergey Mikolayovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u235	Dear Roman Mikhailovich, I regret to say that this small but important bill is being examined in a second reading in an unprepared form. Because there is, there is a recognition of the right thoughts that have been expressed and we now have the opportunity, or this bill will be rejected, or it should be worked out on a regular basis. Please make proposals to the national deputies on procedure. Please, Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u236	Dear Alexander Vladimirovich, you're absolutely right. Indeed, the bill is small but very complex and very thorny and painful. A little miss, and he's going completely wrong, and there's gonna be more damage than effect. Therefore, in order not to lubricate the usefulness of the project with nuances, it is indeed necessary to send it on third reading. And it's very careful to look again at those proposals, including MinAPC, so that we can generally get the law on the right side, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u237	Dear Sergey Mihajlovich, do you agree with the suggestion that we now put to the vote the draft law for re-reading? Please, your point of view?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u238	I can't deny such an offer, but perhaps, as we had previously considered the law, there were suggestions to accept it in the second reading and return it to the third reading. We have literally two observations that are now agreed upon, but they are consistent with words, with a voice that we may not have the right to do. If we accepted it in the second reading and in the third reading, perhaps this would be the case. Shall we vote? Well, let's do it again.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u239	I am voting on the second reading of the draft Act “On Amendments to Certain Laws of Ukraine on the Activities of Non-profit Organizations”. Registration number 4563. I'd like to make a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u240	We don't vote, then we vote third. [[12:06:21]] For-127
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u241	The decision is not taken. This is an example of not denying obvious things. Please, there is a proposal to re-read the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine on non-profit organizations, registration number 4563. Please vote. [[12:06:57]] For 277 Decision taken. I ask the committee to prepare this draft Law for review in a second reading. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 38 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u242	Dear colleagues, we continue our morning plenary session. A draft Law on Building Standards is being announced for consideration. We have another second reading. Registration number 2587. Report by Yuri Sergiyovich Serbin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u243	Like a lot of people. Interesting, yes. I'll remind you what this law is and why it's rereading. This law raises building standards and gives them status to be responsible for failure to implement building standards – "a". “B” – this law creates a clear system of accounting and databases according to building standards. This law helps to develop these building standards and determines who has the right to develop these building standards. On the second reading, there were 41 revisions. We voted on all these amendments. And there were four amendments left, because after the decree of the People’s Deputies of Gorina was passed, there was a need to change some articles. That's why all this turned out to be a second reading. These are the 26th, 27th, 30th and 41st. I have this proposal: not to go back, not to vote so many rights, 41, but to vote only on the rights granted by the deputy of Gorin. They're all accounted for, agreed to it. There is this suggestion: To vote only on these amendments and to adopt the law, the committee recommends that it be adopted today as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u244	Thank you, Yuri Sergiyovich. I see we don't have any amendments that the committee would recommend to reject. They're all accounted for or partially included in other texts. So I want to ask a question to the Ukrainian people's deputies right now. Does anyone have a warning about any of the amendments that are in the text? If so, to which then. There are no amendments that are currently in the table, and all of them are taken into account by the committee in preparing the final edition. Since there is no objection, I am voting for approval in the second reading and for the whole draft law on building standards. [[Registration number 2587]] I'd like to make a statement. [[12:41:07]] For 239. Decision taken. The law has been passed in general. Please, by decision-making procedure, the national deputy of Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u245	Mr. Chairman, on behalf of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, I would like to address you, and yesterday the Committee made such a request and I wanted the Supreme Council to consider it. The eleventh of this month has been assigned to the hearing on behalf of the committee, they have been voted, but because of the documents of both the President and the Cabinet of Ministers, and our internal Supreme Council order not to bring foreign people, not national deputies, to the Supreme Council. There's just a big request, we've got a December month off, just to move this hearing to December of the month so we don't have to gather outsiders here right now in connection with the epidemic. I would ask that we resolve this matter positively, we are ready to listen, all of us, but all of us, all of us, all of us, apply to this request, to carry on in connection with the epidemic.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u246	Dear Vladimir Aleksandrovich, as parliamentary hearings are appointed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, please make a draft amendment. And if there's the will of the session room, we can have a quick look at it tomorrow. The draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the powers of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, the features of constitutional appeals and the non-abuse of the right to constitutional submission is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 4817]] Please, Vladimir Philipovich Filipenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u247	Thank you, colleagues, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy discussed at its meeting on September 4, 2009, in a second reading of the draft Ukrainian Law amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the powers of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. [[Registration number 4817]] The bill was designed to improve the legal regulation of the activities of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine and to fill the gaps in legislation regarding the mechanism for the implementation by the Constitutional Court of its powers, provided for in part six of article 111, article 150 and part two of article 151 of the Constitution of Ukraine. During the drafting of the bill and its preparation for second reading to the committee, there were a total of 31 suggestions and amendments, most of which were taken into account. Following a review of the bill at its meeting, the Committee on Legal Policy decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the powers of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, the features of the conduct of constitutional appeals and the non-abuse of the right to constitutional application submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputies by Lavrinović and Pornović, to be adopted in a second reading and as a whole as a law. [[Registration number 4817]] On behalf of the committee, please support this bill. Also, I point out that there is a conclusion of the General Legal Office, which also believes that the bill can be supported in a second reading. Just a little bit more to remind you that we're actually looking at this bill in the second. Since in the summer we were adopted, in fact, the same law that the Constitutional Court formally declared unconstitutional without resorting to its content. Hence, today the Supreme Council is in such a situation that it repeatedly adopts a law that has already been passed. I've got everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u248	Thank you, please, for considering the amendments made. Amendment number one. Is there a miscalculation? None. Amendment number 2. Is there a denial? Amendment number 3. Is there a denial? None. Amendment number 4. Is there a denial? None. Amendment number 5. Is there a denial? Amendment number six. There's no objection. Amendment number seven. Is there a denial? None. Amendment number 8. National MP Kirilenko Viacheslav Anatoliyevich does not insist. Amendment number nine. MP Shishkin insists? No, it doesn't. Amendment number 10. There's a miscalculation. None. Amendment 11. Is there a denial? It's 10, isn't it?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u249	Counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u250	The 10th Amendment of the People's Deputy of Kirilenko. There's a denial, national MP Klukkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u251	I have a warning about editing. The existence is similar to the content and legal force of the act. It seems to me that here, in this context, the notion of analogy is completely undefined and will create a problem in its application. Because when we apply the analogy of the law, we understand what we are talking about. But here's a similarity, like there's a reason for refusing to open up, I think it's a very strange formulation. I suggested that we don't apply the same thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u252	I understand that you're referring to the text adopted on the first reading, and amendment number 10, it's a little bit different.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u253	And it's counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u254	But that doesn't apply to Amendment 10. Do you mind if I take the number 10 correction into account? Oh, no? Thank you. Amendment No. 11 of the People's Deputy of Shishkina. Is there a miscalculation? None. We only consider the amendments and can either support them or not support them. We can't edit the law in the session room right now. Please proceed with the decision-making procedure. People's MP Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u255	I want to point out that I have the right to be corrected. Really? In this regard, I propose.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u256	Of course, you can formulate and submit it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u257	I propose then 10 amendments to extend and in paragraph 4 in the right column delete "similar to" words.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u258	Honorary colleagues, although the amendment to the amendment also provides for a written submission. If there is no objection, we can consider it when we make a statement if there is consensus and there is no objection to such an approach. Is there a denial?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u259	The position of the committee and that the 10 amendments were taken into account and in this case the decision of the committee is. So I think if we go to the amendment, we're going to break the point that we took on the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u260	Dear Yuri Bogdanovich, I apologize, this could have been done if a full consensus had been reached or written amendments had been made to the amendments. Amendment number 12. Is there a miscalculation? None. Amendment number 13. Is there a denial? None. Amendment 14. Is there a denial? None. Amendment number 15. Is there a denial? None. 16th Amendment. Is there a denial? None. 17th Amendment. There's no objection. 18th Amendment. The national MP Kirilenko does not insist on the amendment. 19th Amendment. Is there a denial? 20th Amendment. Kirilenko Viacheslav Anatolyevich does not insist. 21st Amendment. Is there a denial? None. 22nd. Is there a denial? There's no objection. 23rd Amendment. The national MP Kirilenko does not insist on taking her into account. The 24th amendment was rejected. Shishkin's national deputy does not insist. 25th Amendment. People's MP Kirilenko doesn't insist. 26th. Shishkin's national deputy does not insist. 27th. People's MP Kirilenko doesn't insist. 28 is just as good. 29th, is there a miscalculation? There's no objection. 30th Amendment, no insistence. 31st, is there a miscalculation? None. So we've considered all the amendments. I am voting on the second reading and the whole draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the powers of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Registration number 4817. Please vote. [[12:51:01]] For-286 Decision taken. The law has been passed in general. A draft Act amending article 28 of the Ukrainian Law on Civil Protection Legal Principles is being announced for consideration. [[on State oversight of the safe conduct of work]] Registration number 2102. Reports Anatoly Ivanovich Seminoga.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u261	Dear colleagues! For your consideration, a bill amending article 28 of the Ukrainian Law on Civil Protection is proposed. The bill is aimed at strengthening the constitutional rights of the civil protection and health services in order to protect and protect their lives and health during the conduct and execution of emergency rescue, rescue and rehabilitation work, and the establishment of public oversight of the provision of work in civil protection institutions, bodies and units. The adoption of the law does not require the allocation of funds from the State budget, the introduction of public oversight of safe work in organs, civil protection units, aimed at enhancing the effectiveness of preventive measures aimed at reducing trauma, preserving the lives and health of members of the regular and primary categories. The committee received four suggestions from the legislators. Two are counted, two are rejected. The chief legal office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine called for a bill without notice. The Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster at its meeting considered the bill in its second reading and recommended that it be adopted in a second reading and as a whole. Please support this bill. Please, if you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u262	Let's move on to the amendments. Amendment No. 1 of the Kalchenka People's Deputy. Is there a miscalculation? None. Amendment No. 2 of the People's Deputy Scoobenko. Is there a miscalculation? None. Amendment number 3. Please turn on the microphone of Deputy Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u263	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, we see that the adoption of our laws is often ineffective because there is no complexity to change. Therefore, my amendment is excluded from adding a new paragraph to Chapter II of the Final Provisions: “To entrust the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Committees of the Supreme Council, as part of their monitoring of the implementation and analysis of the practices of applying the adopted laws, with the monitoring of the primary acts of effective law in accordance with the subject matter of the Committees of the Supreme Council. This is appropriate for the purpose of removing from the array of existing legislation duplicates and, I repeat, effective legislation and the beginning of real systematization of legislation.” This is exactly what the People's Deputy Tomenko spoke about today when we adopted a law today that is already 90 percent included in our adopted legislation in July. And it happens all the time. So I think that the government can be given such an assignment both within this law and within others. And I don't think it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u264	Amendment No. 3 of the Karmazin deputies shall be put to the vote. [[12:54:51]] For -8 Correction not supported. Amendment No. 4 of the Karmazin deputies. Please, the microphone of Deputy Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u265	Yuri Carmazin. Honourable National Deputies, supporting the idea of the draft Law amending article 28 “On the legal principles of civil protection”, adopted in the first reading, and the need to reduce the number of laws amending the same act or of the same issue, which I propose to merge during the second reading of the projects, are not unified, 2637 and 2102 – amending article 28 of the Law on State Oversight, adopted in the first reading. The point is that we're taking changes all the time to the articles, to the sub-items, without even seeing that we have a complex change. And I would like to think that if changes are made by the government, they should be integrated into the whole law. There are many more possibilities: goals of ministries, expert institutions, scientific institutions. That's why I'm here. How many years I've been trying to do one thing: to do a normal systematization of legislation and codification. And we can do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u266	Amendment No. 4 of the Karmazin People’s Deputy is subject to a vote. [[12:56:24]] For-16 Correction not supported. It deals with the second reading vote and generally as a bill of the draft Act amending article 28 of the Ukrainian Law on Civil Protection Legal Principles. [[Registration number 2102]] I'd like to make a statement. [[12:56:55]] For 269 Decision taken. The law's been passed. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Fire Safety Act is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 2361]] Reports Anatoly Ivanovich Seminoga.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u267	Dear colleagues, your second reading of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Fire Safety Act. I briefly recall the substance of the bill. One of the main features of the bill is the optimisation of the checks on operators and the introduction of the Ukrainian Fire Safety Act in accordance with the requirements of the Basic Principles for State Oversight in the Field of Economic Activity Act. The bill lays down rules for regulating the conduct of checks by officials of public fire authorities, their powers, and, above all, the responsibility for their actions. The bill also provides for the resolution of the activities of fire department units, that is, units formed by ministries and other central executive authorities, as well as the preparation of fires, as well as the preparation of a special warehouse. The adoption of the bill does not require additional funding from the State Budget, nor does it provide for changes to other valid laws. The committee received 40 suggestions from law enforcement entities. Of these, 26 are counted by the committee, 9 is included, 5 is rejected. Please consider the editorial bill in part 4 of article 16, namely “to add the words ‘state’. The issue is the provision of fire protection at nuclear power stations. National deputies, members of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl Disaster at its meeting on June 3, decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a law on second reading and in general. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u268	Amendment number one. Is there a denial? The committee recommends that we consider it. None. Number 2. National MP Carmazin agrees with the editorial? Not good-looking. Please, the microphone of the People's Deputy Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u269	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! Dear reporter! We have a practice in the Supreme Council that we don't call a specific ministry in the text of the law, because it can be changed. We always write, and I propose to write in part 2 of article 4 instead of “The Ministry of Ukraine for Emergency Situations and Protection against the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster” as follows: “The central authority of the executive authority to which the question of the exercise of State fire control and fire protection is addressed”. During this time, which exists as an independent Ukraine, the name of the ministry has changed several times, so what, every time you make changes to that name? If it is in fact the Central Authority of the Executive Authority to which these matters relate. So I don't understand why this amendment isn't completely taken into account, because this is how we open the gateway to make changes here, and also change if we change the name. And, in principle, it contradicts the practice that we followed absolutely.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u270	Dear Anatoly Ivanovich, what can you say, in essence, is the correct amendment of the People's Deputy Karmazin?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u271	I want to say that it is dealt with in an editorial way, but the name of the responsible body is set out in the Ukrainian Law on Civil Protection Legal Principles. And it says directly that the Ministry of Emergency Situations is responsible for this work. That is why we have made such a proposal under this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u272	Amendment No. 2 of the Karmazin People’s Deputy takes the vote. Please vote. [[13:01:02]] For-89 Correction not supported. Amendment number 3. National MP Carmazin agrees with the editorial? Not good-looking, either. Please, the microphone of the People's Deputy Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u273	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank those who have supported the amendment. I don't understand. It's not a political amendment. It's a constitutional amendment. “Part three of article 4: ‘The decision of the Ministry of the Ukraine on emergency situations and on the protection of the population against the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, on the issues of fire safety within its competence, is mandatory for the executive authorities, as well as for enterprises, institutions, organisations and citizens,’ - to be drafted as follows: “The decision of the central executive authority to which the question of the exercise of State fire control and fire protection is addressed shall be binding on the executive authorities, as well as enterprises, institutions, organisations and citizens.” Sooner or later, we will have to bring everything into line with the Constitution. This is our responsibility with you. Let's do it now, gradually in every law, so that we don't waste time. I'm asking you again: let's count this, let's go back.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u274	Amendment No. 3 of the Karmazin People’s Deputy is subject to a vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:02:39]] For-98 Correction not supported. The fourth amendment, is there a objection? 5th? The 6th amendment, the national MP doesn't insist. Seven, is there a objection? 8th Amendment, People's Deputy Beales does not insist. The 9th amendment, the national MP doesn't insist. The 10th doesn't insist either. 11th, agrees with the committee. 12th Amendment, no insistence. The 13th amendment, in line with the committee's drafting. The 14th amendment, is there a miscalculation? None. The 15th amendment, is there a objection? There's a denial. National Deputy Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u275	Honorable National MPs. Yuri Carmazin. See what is included in this account. The quote, you know, we're always talking about how to lower our worth today and so on. Please see the column “accounted for” here. Obviously, it's not included, obviously, partially or editorially. I'd like to hear the committee head here because that's obviously wrong. I checked the text of the amendment and checked the text that remains for the second reading. Then there's going to be a conflict, we're going to pass this law again, if we adopt it in that way, we're going to go back to further reconciliation. So I'd like to write that down. How's it going? Partly or editorially.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u276	It's editorial. Yeah. I'm confirming that it's dealt with editorially. At the same time, I want to confirm that the judiciary of the Supreme Council has fully accepted the bill. Thank you. Once again, it's been taken into account editorially.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u277	People’s MP Pisarenko insists that. Don't insist. The 16th Amendment, is National Deputy Carmazin in agreement with the editorial? I'm good. 17th Amendment. Is there a miscalculation? None. The 17th? There is a denial, please, of the 17th amendment, of the People's Deputy Suhi. 17th! Oh, no? Amendment number 18, please, microphone of the People's Deputy Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u278	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to two amendments: 18th and 19th, and I will insist. And the 18th and 19th amendments were voted on. These adjustments provide for the following. Well, a typical contract and order for determining the value of government service from fire protection that will be given to industrial enterprises. It will not be useful, it will be imposed, because the 18th amendment states that the list of such industrial enterprises to which such services will be imposed is determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for the submission of a special authorized executive body on civil protection matters. And it's going to look like such an interesting painting. Anatoly Ivanovich spoke well here: with limited testing. Of course, if an industrial enterprise, on the one hand, buys a fire part, it will not test it. Hey, he's paying them money! On the other hand, what are these business entities supposed to pay money for the State Fire Protection Service, to which they paid their taxes? I'm asking you to vote on both the 18th and the 19th amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u279	Please, Anatoly Ivanovich, your argument on.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u280	The 18th amendment counted, the 19th readjustment counted. The committee confirms its position. If there is a desire to vote, please let us vote. But at the same time, I would like to point out the following, in principle, that all enterprises, regardless of the form of ownership, should be governed by the rules of fire safety and the standards and standards adopted in our country. I'd like to remind you of the case that was in Dnipropetrovsk when the owners of the casino forgot to make the fire doors and how it ended. So there are rules, there are orders, we have to follow them all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u281	People's MP Voropeyeva's microphone, please. Yuri Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u282	I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the General Legal Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine also draws attention to the illegality of this rule. In addition, we are violating the Law on Sources of Public Finance and setting a precedent for provocative action by the public authorities. Let us re-vote these amendments, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u283	Amendment No. 18 shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:08:34]] For two. Correction not supported. The point of view of the people’s deputies was not in line with the committee’s proposal. Amendment number 19. The same was true of the proposal to be determined by voting. Any further arguments, Anatoly Ivanovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u284	The same arguments. I think that in this situation we should use exactly the Fire Safety Rules that are approved today in our country, not for every enterprise, and think about our own private rules. So if we go this way, at the very least, I don't think there will be any fire safety in the state. This is the position of the committee. And the MPs have to be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u285	Amendment No. 19 shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:09:35]] For-32 Correction not supported. 20 revisions. The committee recommends that we consider it. Is there a denial? None. 21st. Is there a miscalculation? 22nd. Is there a denial? 23rd. Is there a denial? 24th. Is there a denial? 25th. There's no objection. 26th. I understand that Adam Ivanovich agrees with the committee. Your amendment. 27th. Is there a miscalculation? None. 28th. MP Landik agrees with the editorial. 29th. The committee recommends that we consider it. Is there a denial? None. 30th. A national MP does not insist. 31st. Is there a denial? None. 32nd. Is there a denial? There's no objection. Thirty-three. The MP agrees with the editorial. 34th. Is there a denial? None. 35th. Is there a denial? None. 36th. Is there a denial? I won't. There's a denial. People's deputy Karmazin's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u286	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw attention to an amendment that still makes it necessary to carry out a fire safety audit. And it is now stated that it is being carried out to assess the state of the provision system for objects and to determine the measures needed to carry out such a system and so forth. And that this is a documented system independent analysis of the evaluation process and so on. I think in this situation, which is now what's happening, we're getting absurd. They will come to put out the fire, and they will say to him: “Show me whether you have the conclusion of an audit? Show that you have a contract, and we will not put it out before that.” You know, I don't know how, but in the center of Odessa, there's already twice the historic space, twice, where there's a fire in the neighborhood. The results of the activity are zero, and we're still going to have to enter this anti-crisis action. I'm against taking this amendment into account. And I'm asking us to do it now.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u287	Your argument, Anatoly Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u288	Dear colleagues, the point is, it's not about putting out the fire, it's about testing. And today, there is often a dispute between the checking and controlling authorities and the businesses that are in operation today. And businesses are virtually defenseless from inspection bodies. This is in order to correct in some way the purposeless examination or incorrect verification, or purposeful inspection, involved, and introduces the concept of audit. An independent firm is hired to determine the quality of this fire test. This makes it possible for businesses to sue in court, relying on a professional evaluation of the situation in the enterprise. So it's designed to protect entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u289	Amendment 36 shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:13:27]] For-24 Amendment 36 is not supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u290	Dear colleagues! I'm asking you to support this amendment, because this amendment is really necessary for the entrepreneurial structure itself, for enterprises, for real protection from checking, controlling bodies. So I ask you once again to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u291	Dear colleagues! Following the insistence of the committee's head, I am putting to the vote the question of whether to return to the decision of the Supreme Council on line 36. Please make up your mind. [[13:14:11]] For 178. Amendment 36 is not supported. Amendment number 37. Is there a miscalculation? None. 38 is there a denial? None. 39th is denied? None. Thus, my fellow Members, we have considered all the amendments made to the second reading, and I am voting on the adoption of the second reading of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Fire Safety Act. [[Registration number 2361]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:15:11]] For-195 The decision is not taken. There's a proposal for the People's Deputy Karmazin to refer this bill to read again. I'll bet you a vote on the proposal of National Deputy Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u292	Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u293	I'd like to make up my mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u294	Well, back it up again. [[13:15:45.]] For-195 The decision is not taken, the bill is rejected. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on the creation of conditions for the functioning of the civil protection system]] Registration number 2637. Reports Anatoly Ivanovich Seminoga.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u295	The proposed draft law is designed to comply with the requirements of the Final and Transitional Provisions of the Ukrainian Law on Civil Protection Legal Principles. The aim of the amendments is to align the laws mentioned with the provisions of the Ukrainian Law on Civil Protection Legal Principles in the area of the appointment of ministries, bodies and departments to which the tasks of civil protection are assigned, members of the military and primary forces who serve in civil protection bodies and divisions, the names of the higher educational institutions of the Ministry. In its essence, the bill is technical and applies exclusively to terminology. The bill does not require additional material costs; the committee has received 14 proposals from legal entities, seven of whom are counted, one is partially counted, and six are rejected. The Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council has called for a bill without notice, a Committee on Ecology, Environmental Policy, Environmental Use and Elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster requests, recommends that the Supreme Council adopt a bill in the second reading and generally as a law. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u296	Amendment No. 1 of the Vasilnik People's Deputy, the committee recommends support. Is there a denial? None. Amendment number 2. Turn on the microphone of the People's Deputy Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u297	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I appeal to you because this is a bit of an absurdity. The proposed amendments to article 8, paragraph 3, of the Law on Ukrainian State Prizes. Civil defense forces, organs and units of civil protection according to the subject matter of knowledge of the law. and objects refer to the knowledge of the Committee on State Building and Self-Government. Therefore, the amendments to this law should be adopted at the same time as the amendments proposed by Ukraine's draft laws amending article 10 of the Law on Ukrainian State Prizes and Honorary Names: the deserved miner of Ukraine is project 1462; the eligible civil protection worker is 2103; the eligible tourist worker is 2411, which were already adopted in the first reading, by changing the name of the draft amendment to the Law on National Awards of Ukraine. Otherwise another law on change will have to be passed simply because someone has forgotten the need for a comprehensive approach to amending laws and improving the systematization of legislation. In general, let me tell you how much change we're making right now, and in terms of systematization, we're not getting close, we're getting away from it at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u298	Amendment No. 2 of the Karmazin People’s Deputy takes the vote. [[13:18:57]] For-40 Correction not supported. 3rd Amendment. The committee recommends that we consider it. Is there a denial? 4th Amendment. Is there a denial? None. 5th Amendment. The Microphone of the People's Deputy Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u299	Six. The 5th is Scooby.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u300	Ah, excuse me, the 6th Amendment of the People's Deputy Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u301	6th Amendment. Yuri Carmazin. Since section XIV, paragraph 2, “The Final and Transitional Provisions” of the Civil Protection Legal Principles Act provides that organs and civil protection units are the law-abiding organs and units of the State Fire and Civil Defence Units of Ukraine and are formed on their basis, it is appropriate to amend the Civil Protection Law Act in preparation. And from the moment this law became effective, to recognize the law on civil defense as having become invalid. For the purpose of adding to the current paragraph 2 of section 2 “Ending Positions”, the project is to recognize that it has become invalid, a new paragraph of the following content: “The Civil Defence Act of Ukraine”, “The Supreme Council News” N 14 93. By the way, distinguished national MPs! I want to tell you that civil protection, as the flu preparation has shown, is not appropriate anywhere. What if I did.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u302	Amendment No. 6 of the Karmazin People’s Deputy takes the vote. [[13:20:43]] For-31 The decision is not taken. Correction not supported. 7th Amendment. The committee recommends that we consider it. Is there a denial? None. 8th, is there a miscalculation? None. 9th? Turn on Deputy Carmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u303	Yuri Carmazin. The correction is very simple. It consists in the commission of the Government and the Committees of the Supreme Council, as part of their monitoring of the implementation and analysis of the application of the laws adopted, to monitor the primary acts of effective legislation in accordance with the subject matter of the knowledge of the Committees of the Supreme Council. This is appropriate for the purpose of removing from the array of existing legislation duplicates, and I repeat, the existing legislation and the beginning of real systematization of legislation. Talk to me. Since we are considering a special law, I want to tell you that now we have only a flu epidemic. And if, God forbid, some kind of nitrogen plant or something has exploded, we don't have civilian protection ready today. And then we're going to talk about what some piece of legislation is holding us back. What's in the way?Oh, my God! Respirators, bonds, all of this must be prepared within the framework of civil protection for the entire population of Ukraine. And such assignments should also be given around. And we have to go back and be ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u304	Amendment No. 9 of the Karmazin People's Deputies is a vote. [[13:22:31]] For-53 Correction not supported. Amendment number 10. Is there no objection? None. Amendment 11. Yuri Anatolyovich agrees with the editorial? It's okay. Amendment number 12. Do you agree with the rejection of your offer? No, it's not. MP Carmazin's microphone?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u305	Yuri Carmazin. Dear people's deputies, don't give God, there's gonna be an accident. I'm asking you to pay attention to the correction. In paragraph three parts of one article 10 of the text of the Law on the state of emergency reads: “The military command, which, within the limits defined by this law, is granted the right, together with the executive authorities, the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the local self-government to protect the legal regime of an emergency, is the General Administration of the Civil Defence Forces of the Central Executive Authority on the subject of emergencies and the protection of the population from the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster in the event of the introduction of an emergency on the grounds provided for in paragraph 1 of Part 2 of this Act, to define the valid name of the MNC unit.” That's the point. It's rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u306	Please, on this amendment, National MP Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u307	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. And with regard to this amendment and with regard to previous amendments and subsequent amendments. Dear Anatoly Ivanovich, this is I'm addressing the committee head, you see, our colleague Carmazin is working actively, he's making dozens of amendments, hundreds of amendments. You don't count any. That's not right. He's a very experienced parliamentarian, he offers literate things. Let's at least support something from what Yuri Anatolyovich is offering. Moreover, his suggestions improve the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u308	Amendment No. 12 of Karmazin's deputies will vote. [[13:24:54]] For-60 Correction not supported. Oleg Valeriyovich, have you been able to vote? We're here. Amendment number 13. Yuri Anatolyevich, do you insist? MP Carmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u309	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, for the sake of the economy of time, I will not insist, but in general I will not vote in favour of this law. I think there's going to be a time, people will understand, another way to look at the vacchanal that we're creating in lawmaking, and there might be some courses to do about what systematization is, the codification of legislation, or whether we're still going to go along the path that we're going to adopt 10 laws for rewards, 10 laws for making changes to an article. If we keep going that way, well, the time will come, they'll ever realize that you have to have a dozen codes in the country, not more than 4,000 laws. Thank you. I'm filming.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u310	Is that true of Amendment 14?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u311	This is true of everyone else.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u312	Yuri Anatolyevich does not insist on amendments 13, 14. So we've completed our consideration of all the amendments to this draft law. I am voting on the second reading of the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's laws, I apologize, registration number 2637 – amending some of Ukraine's laws to create conditions for the functioning of the civil protection system. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:26:58]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Anatoly Ivanovich, what is your offer? Anatoly Ivanovich Seminoga proposes that the Supreme Council of Ukraine re-read the draft law. I'm proposing a vote for the National Deputy of Seminoga. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:27:35]] For 186 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. A draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences on the establishment of responsibility for the violation of the rules of declaration of grain is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 2152]] Report by Prokopchuk Yuri Volodymyrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u313	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine prepared a second reading draft of the Ukrainian Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences on the establishment of responsibility for the violation of the rules of declaration of grain. [[Registration number 2152]] I want to remind you briefly of the content of the bill. The bill is designed to establish administrative responsibility for violating legislation when declaring grains by operators, namely: grain warehouses and grain production entities, which are involved in grain storage and are obliged to declare it in due time in accordance with the Ukrainian legislation on grain and grain market in Ukraine, and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regulation on the approval of the order for the declaration of grain by grain-preservation entities. In this connection, the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences is supplemented by two new articles: article 104, footnote 2, “On the responsibility of natural persons of operators and officials for violating the order of declaration of grain”, i.e. failure or failure to submit a declaration on the extent of grain or inclusion in the declaration of incomplete or unreliable data, and article 244 of footnote 16, “On the authorities of executive authority in the field of declaration of grain”, which is entitled to deal with administrative offences and to impose administrative charges. Such bodies are: inspections of the quality and resource formation of agricultural products of the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the district and Sevastopol city governments. The adoption of this law will enable State executives to establish clear and efficient work on the declaration of grains and to obtain full and reliable information each month on the available quantities of grain in Ukraine. And specifically on the amendments. In the process of preparing the bill for consideration in the second reading, the committee received six amendments from Ukrainian national deputies to the law of the legislative initiative. The committee fully counted 3 amendments and 2 amendments partially, 1 amendment rejected. Please support and accept the bill in second reading and in general as the law of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u314	Honorable colleagues, since all the adjustments are made. Sorry, not all of them.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u315	One amendment is not counted because it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u316	Amendment number one. The committee recommends that we consider it. Is there a denial? None. Amendment number 2, Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u317	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, after my argument, I think the committee may agree. The point is that I propose this article in such an editorial, complementing it and substantially improving it in view of the legislation: “Unsubmission or timely submission of a declaration on the amount of grain stored or stored in own or leased cereals, or inclusion in the declaration of incomplete or unreliable data, will then impose a fine on natural persons — entrepreneurs operating in the grain market, and on corporate entities responsible for the timeliness of the declaration of the quantities of grain held or held by the grain-producing entities in their own or leased cereals, the completeness and reliability of the data set out in the declaration, goes on to the same 30th penalty. ” Since the grain and grain market law in Ukraine provides for the introduction of a declaration of grain on storage, as well as grains held by grain-producing entities in their own or rented cereals. In addition, chapter 5 of the Ukrainian Civil Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u318	Please finish, Yuri Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u319	I'm done. Thank you. In addition, chapter 5 of the Civil Code defines citizens as entrepreneurs. So I propose, I do your work for you, I agree on two laws between you, and I don't make a difference. Please be careful. I tell you: you don't want to count, well, that I won't vote in favour of laws that don't take into account these positions and make contradictions, and they create collegiates in the legislation, and then people show me and say, "You can't read, you have different laws, different understandable devices give." I explain and show, and please, agree, the committee, with this, vote, adopt the law and give it to the benefit of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u320	Yuri Anatoliyovich, your point is quite correct. That's why it's part of the committee, because you're repeating and deciphering the part that's already written there, so we're doing it again, it's going to be tautology. That would be totally wrong of the law. So if you have to submit a separate bill, please, you can submit a separate bill. Believe me, the Committee for Law Enforcement, where you know it, is assembled. Well, I'm not the best of these experts, but there are the best experts in all of Ukraine's history. So according to what they say, that's what you could count, that's what you could count, that's what you could count. If there is a question, to take this amendment fully into account, it is the MP's right to put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u321	Amendment No. 2 of the Karmazin People’s Deputy takes the vote. I'd like to make a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u322	Support me. [[B in m in s a l in]] Support me. [[13:33:52]] For-129
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u323	For - 129, the amendment is not supported. Amendment number 3, is there a denial?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u324	Amendment No. 3 of the Behazar People's Deputies are accounted for, accounted for.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u325	Dear Yuri Volodymyrovich, let you speak when you are approached.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u326	Okay, there you go.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u327	Is there a miscalculation? None. Amendment number 4. Yuri Anatoliyovich insists on his editorial work, or does he agree with the committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u328	Partially counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u329	MP Carmazin's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u330	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, I understand that I was misunderstood in the correction I was defending. It will not spread and act as it should. I just don't see the need to vote in this amendment or in general. I personally will not vote in general, because the whole layer of problems remains outside the limits of legal regulation I don't consider as a lawyer, it's normal. That's why it's better without the law. The law is inconsequential. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u331	If I understand you correctly, you don't insist on any of the following adjustments. Amendment number 5, do you have a miscalculation?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u332	Counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u333	None. Yuri Volodymyrovich, takes into account the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and the committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine be considered.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u334	I'm now proving the position of the committee, the committee on which I am.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u335	Amendment 6, Deputy Carmazin no longer insists. All amendments considered, I am voting for approval in second reading and in general as a bill of the bill “On Amendments to the Code of Administrative Offences”, registration number 2152. [[establishing the responsibility for violating the order of declaration of grain]] I'd like to make a statement. [[13:36:05]] For-183 The decision is not taken. Please, Yuri Volodymyrovich, your proposal for what to do next.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u336	So the proposal for re-reading is, even though I don't understand why the law is absolutely non-political, and that's all, I don't understand. Well, I won't call, at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u337	The Prokopchuk proposal for a second reading of the draft Act on Amendments to the Code of Administrative Offences is being proposed. [[Registration number 2152]] I'd like to make a statement. [[13:36:48]] For 214 The decision is not taken, the bill is rejected. From the decision-making procedure, please, National MP Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u338	Oleg Lazko. Thank you, Reverend Alexander Volodymyrovich! I might even have a rhetorical question. These bills, literally a few that have now not been supported, do not bear any political burden. They are not conflictful. I mean, I'd like to know why they don't support themselves in the hall. I'd like to hear from the factions who don't vote for this bill, why they don't vote for it. It is the responsibility of violating the order of the declaration of grain. Where's the politics? The previous bill on the creation of conditions for the functioning of the civil protection system. Where's the politics? So let those who don't support these bills explain why they don't support them, so that we can understand them, and that the citizens of the country understand that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u339	A draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. Wait a minute. Also with regard to the adoption of a decision, please use the microphone of the national MP Sulkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u340	Thank you. Mr. Jaroslav, if you take a word 100 times a day, no one will deny you. I'm talking about Mr. Oleg Laschk speaking. You know why, for example, I personally voted in favour of this project, to some extent supporting my colleague Prokopchuk. Why don't such laws pass? It's not because I'm very supportive of Yuri Carmazin. Because there are enough laws to bring the state in order and not to give any stateless actions and thefts regarding the preservation, implementation of the movement of grain in and outside Ukraine. But believe me, as long as there are no strong executive organs, there will be no law enforcement until then. And we have enough laws. That's why the laws, as you say, don't go too far, it's not political, it's political.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u341	Paul Gnutovich, please finish. Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u342	Specify the mood. Therefore, there is a request to the national deputies, and many want to help the State in some way to put order in place. But as long as we don't unite many laws or just make changes in some small part, that's why there's a big misunderstanding, I think in this Supreme Council Hall. So I think it's more appropriate to go back to the draft laws, unite them, and to a greater extent they'll go through, they'll have support in Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u343	Thoughts were exchanged on these bills. A draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 2281-1]] According to Vladimir Ivanovich Moisik.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u344	Vladimir Moisik, MP “For Ukraine!” Dear Alexandre Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs, the law passed by our colleagues in the Party of the Regions, supported by Parliament in the first reading. A brief story, the authors proposed to amend eight articles of the Criminal Code on responsibility for crime on grounds of racial or religious intolerance. The committee supported the amendments to article 115 of the Criminal Code, a murder committed on such grounds, supported the changes to increase criminal liability in article 161 of the Criminal Code. Of the six amendments to the numbering or eleven substantive committees are counted. Therefore, the committee asks that you be supported as a whole as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u345	Thank you, Vladimir Romanovich. Dear colleagues, we have two amendments that are considered partially or editorially. Both amendments by Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, do you agree with the committee's drafting or do you insist on considering your amendments in fact? There's an insistence. Please, the microphone of the People's Deputy Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u346	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, I agree with the paper, indeed, I am in favour of making changes comprehensively to the legislation, not to the way we do it again. We now have about 50 bills to amend the Ukrainian Criminal Code. Think about it, people are good! I reported the Criminal Code from this rostrum. And that was one report, and 30 years later, changes were made to the law. Now we're doing 50 reports and one piece at a time. I strongly object to this principle. We're disbursing government funds, that's what we're doing. And I call upon the committee, and I call upon the leadership of the Supreme Council: Group all additions, and one day, one change to everything. Let us not make people laugh, nor imitate the boisterous activities of the Supreme Council. I call that imitation. And for this law you can vote – there will be no harm. That's the first one. But let's change our approach.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u347	Dear colleagues! For amendments number one and number two, which the committee recommends to take into account. Is there a denial? Is there a denial, please, amendment number one? First amendment. Amendment number one of the objections of the national MP Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u348	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! Deputy Lazko does not object to the first amendment. I'm just asking you to pay attention and a reporter for this bill, and in general, to the problem that my colleague Karmazin is raising. He's absolutely correct in saying that there's no systemicity in the work of the Supreme Council. We have, if we solve a problem, we have to solve it not from different angles, but to solve it once and for all, not from 30 to 40 bills on the same issue. And unfortunately, today's voice of colleague Carmazin is like a voice screaming in the desert. But I think there will come a time when, they say, we'll hear, we'll understand that, and we'll start working in a completely different way. Yes, so that people can benefit from our work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u349	Dear colleagues! I would like us to open the Constitution of Ukraine when we announce such approaches and read: “The subject of the legislative initiative is:” We continued to ask questions to the legislators on the stand that they are proposing to ask the professional committees what they are supporting. We're looking at all the questions, the second reading, they've been supported both by the committees, and in the session room, and they've been introduced by both the Cabinet of Ministers and the National Deputies. The desire to work systematically is very right, but in addition to desire, it is necessary for those who have the right to work systematically, not to raise this issue here in the room. 2 revisions. Objection, National Deputy Cranwall.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u350	My dear colleagues, as the author of this bill, I do not see the logic of the second amendment. The logic of the bill, the first part of the bill, was that crimes motivated by racial, national, or religious intolerance should be related to other parts of the relevant articles of the Criminal Code. And in an article about deliberate murder, it's actually fixed to kill for reasons of racial intolerance, which means that responsibility is clearly fixed at a higher, more serious level. But then why is the second amendment absolutely similar to that where I didn't change the sanctions, but only about the question of deliberate and severe bodily harm, the mean severity of the damage, the beating, the killing, the torture, the threat of murder, that's to rule out. I mean, threatening to kill and torture, we can, and the punishment will be minimal, right? I don't see the logic, so I'm asking you to put those amendments to confirm, and the MPs don't support them.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u351	Vladimir Romanovich, your arguments.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u352	Dear Tarasse Viacheslavovich, it is about what the authors have actually proposed, apart from murder for reasons of racial, religious intolerance, that the committee supports, this should be a reinforced criminal responsibility. Regarding torture for the same reason, beatings, killings, these actions, Taras Viacheslavovich, are covered by article 161 of the Criminal Code, which is amended and where criminal responsibility is reinforced. This is the position of both the committee and the Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Unfortunately, you may not be satisfied, but that is the position. Amendment No. 2 shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:47:31]] For-21 Correction not supported. Amendment number 3. We agree with the editorial proposed by the committee. Is there a denial? None. Regarding the 4 and 5 amendments, we solved the question. Amendment number six. There's a 4th objection, too. National MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u353	You know, I don't have a objection, I just might not feel competent enough in this regard, so I have a question whether it's from the committee or the author of the amendment of Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin. In this case, by changing the word “people” and returning to “citizens”, do we specifically guarantee that the responsibility will be for criminal acts against persons who do not have citizenship or who do not have Ukrainian citizenship, or do we guarantee their rights in this case? If we guarantee this, if the lawyers are willing to confirm this 100%, I will not have any warnings about this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u354	That's how this change is understood, that's how it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u355	Amendment number six. Is there a miscalculation? There's a denial. Please, Taras Vjačeslavovich Czarnovil.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u356	Dear colleagues, amendment number 6 cancels the amendment to article 300 of the Criminal Code. As a result of the changes I have proposed, it has been assumed that the import into Ukraine, distribution and so forth, which, in addition to promoting violence and cruelty, can provoke them, i.e. those who cause, promote racial, national or religious intolerance and discrimination. If we accept this amendment, in that case, we actually call for the killing of a black man there or an Arab, or for the killing of a fucking Moscow, a peddler, or someone else, it's a crime. But to place materials that tell us what is causing such crimes, such as, say, Ukrainians killing Russians there, Russians killing Ukrainians there, Jews drinking people's blood in general, something else, nothing is actually happening. So I don't think we need to accept this amendment, we need to keep it. Because crime is essentially the same.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u357	Please, Vladimir Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u358	Dear Tarasse Viacheslavovich, according to the committee, does not want to make such changes. And we're afraid that if we make such norms not to have an effect exactly the opposite of what we meant by the drafters of the bill. The committee did not support the changes made to this article.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u359	Please, Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u360	Thank you, Reverend Alexander Volodymyrovich. Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! As head of the working group on the adoption of the Criminal Code, Taras Viacheslavovich Crnovila is considered quite right. Because removing this means leaving all of what we have in the TV, radio and stuff that's being imported. In the first reading, we accepted if the concept is to vote in favour of the amendment of the sixth. With all due respect and respect for Vladimir Romanovich, I don't support this amendment, because it basically destroys half of this law. He loses all meaning, this law, if we don't support it. So I'm against counting six amendments. And I don't know why we counted it. There's a fear that they're going to go somewhere else. But there is judicial practice, there is still life. I think that, Vladimir Romanovich, you yourself can navigate and withdraw even this proposal so that we don't vote on it. Because I am.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u361	Amendment No. 8 of the people’s representative of Moses is to be voted on. I'd like to make up my mind. Amendment number six, I'm sorry. [[13:51:54]] For-34 The decision is not taken. Correction not supported. So we've considered all the amendments. It is up to the vote on the second reading of the draft law amending the Criminal Code to Ukraine. [[on responsibility for crimes motivated by racial, national or religious intolerance]] [[Registration number 2281/1]] I'd like to make a statement. [[13:52:33]] For 297 Decision taken. Vladimir Romanovich, do we have the opportunity to vote in general? I am voting on the adoption as a whole, as a law, of the draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine. [[Registration number 2281/1]] [[13:53:08]] For 312 The law's been passed. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on additional measures to ensure the implementation of the Constitution of Ukraine]] [[Registration number 3151]] Report by Yuri Volodymyrovich Prokopchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u362	The honourable chairman, the honourable national MPs, I'm paying attention, we're obviously going to have to continue to consider this question of the sitting, because there are five minutes left.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u363	We continue our morning plenary session for 15 minutes. I hope we'll be able to look into it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u364	A committee on law enforcement was prepared for a second reading of the draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on additional measures to ensure the implementation of the Constitution of Ukraine]] [[Registration number 3151]] The bill is being drafted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Chief Legal Authority with a note that requires substantial work. The committee considered twice at its meeting a remark by the legal authorities on the bill, but disagreed with it. However, he sent it for comments and suggestions to scientific and practical institutions such as the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Academy of Legal Sciences and other institutions. At present, specific proposals have been received that need to be further discussed at the meeting of the committee with a view to maximizing the comments and suggestions of the General Legal Authority. Taking into account what has been said, the chairman of the committee requests that the draft bill be moved from 3 November 2009 to one of the plenary sessions in December. It was then that the bill was put into the order of the day. That's why the position of the committee was – the bill will support it. But given again that there are very many observations from these institutions, there is still a request either to move it or to make a decision about it. So there's been a lot of amendments. There were 19, of them: 11 counted, 8 rejected. Therefore, honourable national deputies, to your discretion, let us say, acceptance or rejection of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u365	Dear colleagues, is the second reading supported by the committee's proposal to postpone consideration of this issue? No objections? We're transferring this bill for further consideration when the committee is submitted. Thank you, Yuri Volodymyrovich, please sit down. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on liability for offences in respect of water fund land]] [[Registration number 3417]] Report by Yuri Volodymyrovich Prokopchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u366	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! Ukraine's draft law to amend some of the Ukrainian legislation on liability for environmental offences, which we are currently considering, is the result of committee hearings that took place on April 1, 2009. We then considered the situation that had arisen in the area of environmental offences and found that the situation was truly terrible. I don't want to be scared at this point, but it is. Since there are several different bills on the committee that try to correct the situation differently, we have decided to make one comprehensive bill, which took into account all of us, we think, the right ideas of many people's deputies. Thus, amendments to four codes and one law are proposed. What exactly is being proposed? It is the establishment of administrative and criminal responsibility for the illegal possession of land cover, the increase in sanctions for the violation of the requirements for protection of nadrs, and the spread of responsibility for the arbitrary burning of vegetation on agricultural land. By the way, this is a painful problem that has been pointed out by many national deputies when virtually all of us were in smoke. Criminal responsibility is established for the illegal possession of the soil layer of the water fund, and if the consequences are serious, the penalty is up to five years of imprisonment. A new article of the Criminal Code on the violation of the rules of protection or the use of the nadr is presented in the new edition. Changes are being made to the Earth Code, which creates adverse conditions for owners of illegally created land. They also commit themselves to bringing them to their former position. The bill has been noted by the Legal Authority, but there are no reports of isolated cases of socially dangerous activities with ground cover. So every day we hear about it and cannot the committee will also agree on the need to define the concept of "hard consequences". This is a case of judicial practice, and it has not been used in the Criminal Code for a long time. More specifically, it's used. The committee held a special meeting to consider proposals from the Legal Department. Part of us have supported and offer you the text that is in your hands, that is, the one that is distributed. In total, 26 amendments were made to the project. 24 are counted in whole or in part and 2 are rejected. The committee proposes to adopt the bill in the second reading and generally as a law of Ukraine. Please be supportive. I want to say that the entities of the legislative initiative were represented by different factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u367	Dear colleagues, since all the amendments that have been made and taken into account either fully or partially, I would like to ask those who have made these amendments and where their text has been edited. Is there any objection to the editorial proposed by the committee? Is there no objection? Now for everyone, any amendments that the committee recommends to take into account. Is there a miscalculation? You don't? I am voting on the second reading and the whole draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts in the second reading and in general. [[on liability for offences in respect of water fund land]] [[Registration number 3417]] I'd like to make a statement. [[13:59:53]] For 310 The law has been passed in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u368	Thank you for your support. And yet I ask that I take this opportunity to go back to the grain bill in order to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-05-m0.u369	Yuri Volodymyrovich, please sit down. The morning plenary session is closed. At 4 p.m., an evening plenary meeting will begin.
