ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Yes, we are preparing for registration. Please enable the "Council" system. [[10:00:47]] They registered in the 412 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. And I would like you to remember that we have to register at the registration desks when we receive the necessary materials for work. Please keep that in mind. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of Ukrainian national deputies Prasololova Igor Mikolaiovich and Safiullin Ravil Safovich. Let's welcome our colleagues, wish them all the best. Dear colleagues, allow me to provide information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in plenary meetings on February 3, 2009. We have considered 7 issues of the agenda, including two bills, two draft regulations, proposals for the elimination of disagreements in the adopted law and proposals by the President of Ukraine for a single law. As a result, two laws and one decree have been passed. One draft has been adopted as a basis. As a result of a review of the proposals by the President of Ukraine, the veto of the President of Ukraine was overtaken by Ukrainian law. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, are on Wednesday 30 minutes away from speaking to the national deputies with proposals, announcements, reports. Please, Your Honor, sign up for the speech. Please put on the board the name of the national MPs who signed up for the performances. People's deputy Glazunov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Please. The right to speak is given to Anatoly Kirilovich Kinah. Please. Get ready for Sunshine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u2	Honorable National Deputies, distinguished compatriots! During the 17 years of independence of our nation, there have been many difficult periods, but such a level of mutual destruction in the structures of power, such a level of weakening of the authority of trust in Ukraine in the world and unlimited cynicism, there has never been a lie in previous complex periods. We have come to the point that today we see humiliating personal insults at the level of the President and the Prime Minister about the President's appeal to the Ukrainian people, where he is trying to assess the socio-economic situation in the country. When there is a catastrophic picture of the destruction of the budgetary and social, economic and industrial system by the President of the State, and it can be agreed with him on a case-by-case basis, and he, on the other hand, is accused of being a liar, a panicker and perverse in the state. It's unacceptable stuff. Not only is it a decrease in confidence in the state and power, but it is, in fact, a reemphasis that authorities are not able to consolidate efforts even in crisis situations. And the crisis is getting deeper. This has already been confirmed by the United Nations, which, at the level of the fall in gross domestic product of industrial production, is the first disgraceful place in the world for the devaluation of Ukraine’s bracelets. This has moved on to the social sphere. In November-December 2008, there were already 400,000 of our fellow countrymen working on forced vacations and a reduced working week. And it was only November-December 2008 that they registered with 530,000 Ukrainians who lost their jobs. And unfortunately, January deepens these very serious crises. Ukraine is essentially the only state in European and post - Soviet space that does not have a consolidated national anti-crisis programme. There is a growing crisis in industrial sectors. Today, virtually most of Ukraine’s chemical industry is unprofitable because Ukraine has given its main positions on both the supply and transit of natural gas through our territory. Therefore, distinguished national MPs, respected compatriots! It is imperative that we take immediate action on both the Supreme Council and society to stop this abuse of the economy and the people. You can't handle the situation, step aside, and don't hostage the Ukrainian people and the state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u3	Victor Sinchenko, Lithuanian bloc faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u4	I'd like to give the floor to Greeneweck.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u5	Sergei Greenewecki. Prepare Vladimir Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u6	Dear Mr. Head, honourable deputies, honourable voters! Today’s session is scheduled to be scheduled for discussion by a bill on seaports. The law has been pending approval for 10 years. During that time, eight governments changed, and the composition of the Supreme Council was updated three times. But the status of national seaports, their positions in the structure of power, their relationship with business entities are still not settled, creating a desire to manage them by means of regulations and creating a basis for conflict situations. Over the past two years, we have witnessed with you a staff fever in the ports of Ukraine, Odessa, South, Illysiowsk, on the line of Skadowski, Herson. Contradictive orders are issued by the central authorities, and appropriate court decisions are taken. As a rule, the new leader’s incarceration is followed by scenarios such as moviefighters, special divisions, security structures, fights and scandals, and law enforcement. In fact, we're dealing with a state raid based on total corruption. An example is the recent situation in the port of Ilchi. Of course, solving human resources issues in state-owned enterprises is the prerogative of the relevant ministries and departments. But they need to be resolved in a legal way. Moreover, almost all assignments are carried out without taking into account the viewpoint of the labour community and the professions, without agreeing with the district government. By the way, the Constitution provides for the rule of law and the rule of law, that is, leaders are appointed to violate existing legislation that challenges their legitimacy. Appropriately, the struggle around the ports is causing completely justified fear by hundreds of thousands of Odessa, the Hersonian region, that all the staffing changes are nothing more than preparation for the next, sorry, debasing the various financial and economic groups of the profitable and promising sector, by the way, and strategic. Thus, in terms of the maritime sector, all authorities would like to have a single vision and an agreed position. In my opinion, Parliament can make its share of such an agreed position. That is why I would like to ask you, my fellow Members, to consider the Law on Seaports to focus, first of all, on their state status, their order of acquisition, their operation, the renovation and construction of new objects, the establishment of a transparent system of search for assessment, selection and use of investments in port infrastructure, the clear definition of the rules of appointment and the release of port management. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u7	Michael Tomenko has the word. A colleague of Bondarenko gives him the right to speak. Get ready, Mironka.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u8	Dear colleagues, it must be noted that yesterday we lost a day for Ukrainian parliamentaryism, and our position is that today we have to repay yesterday's debt. So our faction demands and asks the Ukrainian Parliament to vote that today we should consider all the bills that we planned to consider yesterday. So work up to 15 hours to keep the committees from being torn down, without interruption, and with reduced procedures. We did everything we could yesterday to make the day productive. And, of course, our soul is in pain that the representatives of the Party of Regions have convinced “Our Ukraine” to vote in favour of the exhibition. Well, the whole country can't wait for them to convince everyone. And I think that "Our Ukraine" will make its decision, and I don't think that there are so many people there willing to create a regional party, yet they chose as "Our Ukraine". And on Thursday, tomorrow, we'll listen to the government's report, we'll express our point of view, but Parliament has to work, not wait for the leader of the opposition with the President to raise 226 votes in favour of resigning the government. We really are a unique country. We have the President and the Prime Minister on television and the leader of the opposition in his office. But it's the right, I think, both the opposition and the President to act as they do. It's a sad thing we have the President's Secretariat turned into a panic team. And as one well-known politician told us here yesterday, the President's Secretariat is read twice a day as statements from the Soviet Information Office fronts. During the last year, we heard no positive information. Well, if there's nothing good going on in this country, write down your statements and stop your work with the President and don't torture the country if there's no positive information for the country at the President's Secretariat. I spoke to the mayors of the cities yesterday, the heads of the district councils who will come to the hearing tomorrow, and they say that if it wasn't for panic, they would have done 10 times more because the demoralization of society is like that. A government official or a citizen includes radio and television, and then two hours from the President's Department tells us that the end is over for all of us. So how can you work? I am convinced that the Supreme Council should respond in the same way to this miracle that is being done in Kiev. We already have taxes on dead souls, you know. So I'm absolutely convinced that if Parliament doesn't stop this vacchanal in Kiev, when new taxes are introduced in a day, it won't do any good. Finally, I want to say the good news. Many deputies called for us to return the broadcast of the Supreme Council to the FM-range from yesterday's radio "Era" broadcasts the morning session from the 10th to the 14th and in the FM-range. You can control the situation. And once again, I urge you to work. Because if Parliament doesn't do anything, then.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u9	The national MP Mironenko, a faction of the Party of the Regions, is invited to the presentation.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u10	God’s Word.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u11	Another divine, please, instead of Mironka. Prepare the Smiling.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u12	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! I cannot help but answer my colleague Tomenka's stickling thing because, I think, if I follow the logic that is now suggested by BUT, first of all, BUT has to work for about a year to listen to all those thousands of bills that have not been heard in Ukraine during the year when they whistled, whistled, broke all the equipment, and when the country was thrown into a stalemate by the BUTT. And when you talk about parliamentaryism today, we're ashamed of what you've turned into a parliament. You've turned it into a public toilet where your political frustrations are pouring out. And now I want to tell you, Mr. President, on behalf of the millions of people who have been made beggars today, this is the middle class: entrepreneurs, small and medium-sized businesses, which have led you to this power and which you are actually throwing at the cemeteries that are now so concerned with Mayor Kyiv. You see what you're doing: the Cabinet of Ministers goes beyond their authority -- and cancels the simplified system with VAT, and then makes the show out of the fact that it cancels its own illegal decision. You're going through Parliament to raise taxes tens of times in the market, and there are three and a half million people. And you don't even have a conscience to apologize to them. You're doing everything you can to raise the rent, and that's why tens of thousands of offices are closing today. If you don't know, I'll tell you that coffee, food, service, people's services are closing down all these businesses because they're not only incapacitated by your taxes that you raise every day, or even rent. What are you doing, reverend? Which state do you want to lead to that middle class? Everyone you're asking right now is programmers, they're managers, they're people who make scientific products, they're all saying two or three months more of your government, and they're going to go begging for train stations. Sadly, today’s authorities have forgotten who brought her to power. Unfortunately, corruption, which has become a cancer in society today, has already reached the end, the smallest Ukrainians, and in this your responsibility. And you know that these are the millions that, just like the middle class, won't forgive you for that. Go with God, leave the country alone, let the people work.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u13	National MP Smithukh, faction of the Party of the Regions. National deputy Popov. Please. Instead of Smiling. Prepare Viacheslav Kirilenko instead of Moses.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the unjustified tranquillity with which the Government of Ukraine today regards the situation in housing and utilities. The fact is that last year's figures are clearly negative, obviously negative. Compared to 2007, all trends are reversed. If they were positive, today we have a sharp increase in the debt of utilities for energy, not the population's cost of utilities. Consider this figure: in January of this year, utilities were estimated to have consumed only four per cent of NAC's gas before NAC. Housing and utility tariffs are rising. Last year, they increased by 28.8 per cent, and this year, I estimate, another 40 per cent. The population today has no money for inflation and that many have been unemployed to pay for the level of public services offered by the Government. At the same time, the Government blames local governments, and that is totally unfair. Let's go back to the treaty that was signed to deliver gas to Ukraine with Gazprom. Please note once again that in the case of the first non-payment for the gas consumed, our country will have to make a prepayment. In a situation where our whole system is working in a completely different direction, and utilities are getting paid for utilities a month later, how are we going to get Russian gas for domestic consumers? To date, the Government has not offered any solution to this difficult situation. I would therefore like to draw your attention to the two bills submitted by the members of the Party of the Regions. We propose that the first bill should leave the value added tax on housing and utility enterprises so that they can move to modernizing their production as soon as possible, to introduce energy-saving technologies. And that will be very fair, because each of us, as a consumer of utilities, paying one bracelet for these services, 20 copies will be returned to repair their own home or to the boiler room that serves it. I would like to say the same thing about the bill that today proposes to stimulate the payment of the population, to stimulate the timely payment of the population. If the consumer pays for housing and utility services in a timely manner, he receives a discount of 10 per cent. Thus, we would stabilize the financial and economic situation in the industry and take a step that is indeed the only right one in this crisis situation. I call on the Government to draw serious attention to the problems that exist in the industry, because tomorrow it is the stability of the provision of housing and utility services. She's, by the way today, yes, on a big, big question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u15	Dear colleagues! He has six minutes to make his speech, after which the national deputy Shkutak also gives him his time to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u16	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “For Ukraine” MP. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! Our group was surprised to hear the events in the session hall yesterday. It's not the first time we've seen a mutual struggle to destroy the two major factions that are represented in Parliament -- BUTU and the Party of the Regions. The only thing that's been bothering us for a long time is that this fight destroys the well-being of the Ukrainians and threatens to destroy the Ukrainian state. We are surprised that the essence of such a struggle is only a struggle for power, and all of it, without exception! One government, one prime minister, and one team have clung to their chair and are not willing to admit even reality by claiming that the budget is being implemented, the people live singing, there is no delay in wages, and everything will be all right. Others require a report from all, without exception, except a report from themselves. We have a big question for the Prime Minister, the financial and economic and social bloc of the government. Is it true that their brown reports are perceived by all those simple people who go to shops, markets, markets, and see prices rising, how government does not deal with these issues, and how business, business and economy in general start to go down? We have a big question for the Party of Regions. And why did we decide, and the Party of Regions in particular, that everyone in this room should report as if they were all guilty, and the opposition as part of the Ukrainian political elite is not guilty. I have a question. Why should the heads of the district councils be reported here, the mayors and other officials? Why is it that the mayor, for example, Lvova, Donetska, or Ternopola, does not call on a carpet of deputies from all factions and does not have to report why transfers, that is, money on wages, why everyone fights in parliament with each other, and in the local budgets empty and in the local communities, the pubs crack. I think the MPs should start this report from their own report to the people. This will be the right report to show that all are responsible for their irresponsibility. That is why we stress once again that it is inappropriate to bury our heads in the sand, especially when it is done by the Prime Minister of Ukraine. You have to recognize reality, you have to make a revised budget, you have to take changed indicators, and you have to say that now and now, the protected articles by the end of the year will be paid, the salaries, pensions and other expenses that are provided for in the Budget Code, and where the government just wanted to issue what is wanted for real, you have to cut and start with yourself, because dozens of bills in Parliament are about abolishing the benefits and privileges for officials, and they are unfortunately without movement. So there's someone here who's interested in continuing the economy at the expense of the common people, not at the expense of the officials and not at the expense of the large, by the way, corporations that solve their issues in the context of the financial crisis, and the small business government and everyone around it is suffocating, because there's never been a 70-200 increase in the market as it is now. There has never been such an attack on transporters, there has never been such an attack on "forgivers", on all those who are not oligarchs and actually work, and create jobs. There is an attack that does not receive proper opposition in Parliament. Therefore, the “For Ukraine” group has tabled a series of bills that make it impossible to do so in the future. Moreover, we are surprised that all those promises regarding the adoption of legislative acts that people speak of are not being fulfilled. For a long time, we had to consider the law that would cancel the hundreds of times the market tax. We're not canceling. We were supposed to put out slot machines outside the cities, and we're not doing anything on the second reading. We had to raise the excise on the tobacco election a long time ago, everything was up on the profile committee, because lobbyists are working, and the fact that the people are all in the slot machines and everything else, nobody cares. The government struggles with one another to report to, but the ruling coalition does not forget to return the symbols of the totalitarian communist regime to Artek. Tell me, how did BUT yesterday give 66 votes not to address the question of "Artec" but to return the linens, the steels, the state-owned and the territory of "Artec", is it such a democratic coalition? How did the three nuns vote for it? Did they change their minds or did the prime minister order the Communists to please, sixty-six votes, that's your coalition? We welcome you to a democratic and patriotic coalition, a disgrace to you. Finally, the “For Ukraine” group introduced a series of bills to be adopted. The day’s order was voted on as a basis yesterday. We didn't vote in the entire agenda for the session, because all of our bills are proposed to be removed, because there are victims of political repression, there and the same excises, there and about the review of the permit system, there and about the support of entrepreneurs, and medical workers. This is how we insist: not political relations between ourselves, but bills for people to include, and this is our principle position – for Ukraine and for Ukraine! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u17	Andrew Kožemiakin, the right to speak is given by Sergey Teryohin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u18	Dear Head! Honorable National MPs and, honourable voters! The faction of Yulia Timoshenko is deeply outraged by the so-called address of the President of Ukraine to the people that took place on the air of all the channels on January 30th of this year. Victor Yushchenka’s speech, his tone, and content testify to the President’s intention to lead a dirty, dirty campaign against the Supreme Council government and against the entire Ukrainian people. Even though Ukraine is in an extremely difficult situation as a result of the financial and economic crisis that has swept over the world, Viktor Yushchenko shows complete irresponsibility and inability to adequately assess the threats, the challenges facing Ukraine under these difficult conditions. Instead of consolidating the efforts of all branches of government, instead of supporting anti-crisis initiatives, the President is stressing society, trying to sow panic among the population. The President's appeal, the statements made by officials of his secretariat, the intentions of Presidentially-elected political opponents from the Party of Regions and the “One Centre” to send the government to resign testify to one thing: the struggle against the government and Prime Minister Yulia Timoshenko, as well as against the forces in parliament that joined the coalition and were not afraid to assume full responsibility for Ukraine's future, will be used by the most impure methods and means. During the past year, Victor Yushchenk’s environment was purposeful, artificially fueling tensions in society. The statements provoked the development of destabilization processes in the country: the blocking of privatization, which resulted in the loss of billions of Ukraine; lobbying with individual members of the Party of the RosUkrenergo Region, promises of laws, important, necessary decisions of the Cabinet of Ministers and attempts at any cost to contain the Government of Timoshenko. The reason for this behavior is obvious: the government has been consistently fighting corruption and is trying to solve the problem of society and economics by removing funds from the shadows that have been used recently by individual clans. Is it not the most important victory of the government of Timoshenko in fighting corruption schemes that Ukraine has finally come out for the first time in the history of independence of Ukraine on clear and clear terms of gas supply to Ukraine? But the most important thing is that the signed gas agreements will permanently end political speculation in Ukraine, and the topic of gas prices will cease to be a weight of political pressure in Ukraine. In today’s complex realities, one of the key centres of political and economic influence in the state, referring to the President’s Secretariat, has taken a completely destructive and dangerous position for society. All anti - government and anti - democratic forces have united around him. That is why Parliament and the government must mobilize as much as possible to protect the interests of Ukraine and our citizens. We are obliged to provide comprehensive assistance to the government in coping with the consequences of the global financial crisis for Ukraine and to do everything possible to ensure that our economy comes out of the difficult trials updated and healed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u19	People's Deputy Pudov, faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Assigns a right to speak to Teren. Victor Terrence, please. Prepare Dubyl.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u20	Victor Teren “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear fellow citizens! Yesterday, she began her work as an alternate session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Let us pay tribute to the Head of the Supreme Council, who has made every effort to get this work started. This is objective. Because last night's blockade was a joint action by the Party of Regions and, let's say, by the "One Center" to it against the government, because now the President is relying on two parties: A party of regions and a “One Center” group. The President’s secretariat was in concert with the Party of the Regions. Even emotionally. One makes historical statements about the apocalypse of the Ukrainian economy. The second, a member of the Party of Regions we recently heard, today a few minutes ago, who has proven herself to be a fundamental expert in public toilets, makes no less hysterical statements in support of the President's demagogies. One Victor, one Andryovich, reassures the nation that the nation must be so noble and that it has such a prodigious advocate as it is. By this, and the second Victor, now Fedorovich, has long been threatening rebellion in March and is giving the command to block the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And this is such a patriotic duet, so patriotic, so scary, so patriotic. I mention the words of the beautiful Ukrainian ethnographer Boris Grinchenko, who said that there are very many loud patriots in Ukraine and very few workers. So today we actually have a government worker. And that's true, because the government just works. And the State Treasury Tax Inspectorate Report on Monday, February 2, testified that the State Budget was implemented 100 percent in January 2009 in the volume provided for in the State Budget Act 2009. And here they say we need to review the budget. Why examine it? And because the budget burden will start again, the political opposition will start again. The government is producing results. Retirement funds have been made at 101 percent. All pension payments, problems solved here. There's another problem: the President's problem. But this problem will certainly have to be solved by the Ukrainian people. And I'd like to say a few more words. Here we have heard that the government seems to be hiding its head in the sand. Well, I'd say someone might be hiding their head in the snow. Because when in a period of economic crisis, the President makes deep skiing in the Carpathians, sinking into this snow, you know, and hiding his head in this snow, it's probably a nation that has such a defender today. And I'd add literally the last thing that was right here was saying that we should start with ourselves. Let's get off, let's start with the president, because it's a party. The group “For Ukraine!” is the President. We're going to bring not one billion DUSSs into the state budget for the President's security, but five times less, and then we're going to review the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u21	Deputies dubil, faction of the Timoshenko Yulia. Is it? None. Please, instead of Valentina Matvieva, Katerina Semenovna Samolik will be speaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u22	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Reverend Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I want to express my concern about the destruction of the southern ports of Ukraine. Surprisingly, the Minister of Transport of Winsky, his deputy worker, is doing this personally. All of this is done under reform, and this is done during a terrible financial economic crisis. In the Hersonian region, the port of Genius has already been destroyed, transforming it into a port. The same fate now awaits the Scottish International Trade Port. And that means reducing jobs, infrastructure, increasing unemployment, and then getting the real pearls of southern Ukraine -- Scadovska and its port, which are 115 years old. The port has a powerful team, now it's going to build a new platform complex, the old one works, without budgeting, by the way, the cost, the grain complex, which will increase the harvesting of the seed by seven times, will reduce the discharge time by five times. I'm talking to Mr. Winsky, why are powerful businesses being destroyed? You want to make him bankrupt? Do you want him in your pocket? I am addressing the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Julia Volodymyrna, why do you hold this position of Winsky, who destroys not only the southern ports in Hersonian, but throughout southern Ukraine. Yesterday, desperate workers at the Herson Combin factory seized the factory. This is due to the fact that the Soviet laws virtually destroy the domestic producer, cancel 30 percent compensation. Now, sir, who was now in favor of the symbols, under Soviet symbols were made both combines, and tractors, and airplanes, and spaceships, plowed land, grown bread, and brought this bread to the state chamber. And now this democratic one of yours, "For Ukraine!", which has nothing left, things, has led all to famines, to crosses, to the oppression of conflicts between power, to the despair of people, to the loss of a piece of bread. That's what you need to do, close to the President's body, the leader of the group that you called today, not what you were doing right now, being in this rostrum. I ask you very much, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to respond to these problems, Prime Minister of Ukraine. We have to save people.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u23	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the speech is over. Regarding the proposals made by the national deputies, I ask the secretariat to prepare appropriate addresses and assignments from the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The right to a replica, mentioned by name, is vested in the Other God’s Word. Microphone, please. No, not before. Not you. It used to be you. This is the previous speaker. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, this is a saying that BUT is now using political technology in the country, called the “Search for the Enemy”. This power has become so engrossed by opposition to one another that they are now trying to turn the blame for the country’s miserable state into one another. I want to tell you, Your Honor, that the people who were really impressed by your stories about the bright future had already become sober and sober. Because every day he drinks this water from the garbage cans that today’s life has become. That is why no one will succeed, either the Prime Minister and the former Prime Minister, or “Our Ukraine” and the President, in turning the blame on someone. The power of guilt is complete, and people already understand it. So do not try as children to find guilty ones in the sandbox. That's all that sandstone is. The trash can. And you'll get out of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u25	Dear colleagues, since my last name and my words were mentioned, I am very tolerant to say that I have spent my entire life as a scientist and politician doing everything I can to make Ukraine proud of Parliament. And my advice is, if we don't want Parliament to be a public toilet, we don't need to throw it under ourselves, we need to protect this Parliament, these and the factions, all who work in this Parliament. As far as tariffs are concerned. Well, there's a little bit of a brain in the people's deputies and the mind that what taxed us, we didn't vote, and there's no law. But we need the brain and the makucha in the heads to be in the Kyiv City Administration and in the factions of the Kyiv Council, which support the Ordinary “Jaroslava Mudrogo” – Chernevski, who has already raised tariff assemblies and market congregations to heaven. Where are the parties where they are feasting against this market congregation? And the third. Friends, those classics who want to work more, and here, in the session room that they come to at the morning break, my advice. When our faction proposes that we continue to work and consider all the bills, vote for it, not teach us that we need laws. So, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, we make our request by reviewing all the bills without interruption until 15:00 and checking who came here to paint and who worked in Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u26	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the speech is over. I would like to remind you once again about the proposals that have been made in the national MPs' speeches, and I ask the secretariat to draw up appropriate letters of address, orders on behalf of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and above all to ensure that the response to the problems that have been violated by the Ukrainian National Deputies is monitored. Dear colleagues, you have an agreed and approved agenda for today’s meeting. A lot of questions, they passed from Tuesday. So I'm going to put to the vote, please note, the proposal that we today can work productively, effectively, so that we can work without interruption until 15 hours and consider the issues that have been put to the consideration of the reduced procedure. I would very much like to ask my distinguished colleagues to support such a proposal that was made by our colleague. Please vote. [[10:41:28]] For 231 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I would only ask one thing: Don't judge, because we're about to ruin our schedule for work. The factions? Please. Region Party – 0, Timoshenko Yulia Block – 152. "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" – 59, Communist faction – 0, "Litvina Block" – 20. Dear colleagues, the draft Law on the National Programme for the Reform and Development of Housing and Utilities for 2008-2012 is under review. Dear colleagues, as we follow the reduced procedure, and these laws are related, we will also look at each other separately. No objections? The rapporteur is Minister of Housing and Utilities Kucherenko Aleksei Yuriovich. The focal point will be Deputy Chief of the Professional Committee, Alexander Pavlovich Popov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u27	Thank you, Reverend Volodymyrovich. Mr. Chairman, honourable national deputies, you are given a new edition of the Universal Programme for Reforming and Developing Housing for 2008-2012. The program was conducted through a series of thorough discussions, supported by scientists at the National Academy of Sciences, the Association of Ukrainian Cities, and representatives of the public. The programme is reviewed and adopted on the basis of the Inter-Knowing Commission on Housing and Utilities Reform, which includes representatives of ministries, Ukrainian National Deputies, public organisations and so on. The project was considered by the Committees of the Supreme Council on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster and on Fuel and Energy Complex and supported. Repeatedly, the draft law was discussed at the meeting of a committee of profile, along with a similar draft law proposed by the people’s deputies. I am pleased that at this very difficult political moment, as a result of the discussion and discussion, we came to a common understanding of the need to adopt a new edition of the National Programme for Reforming and Developing Housing and Utilities, making a decision to adopt a bill on the basis of number 3063 of August 19 and, in preparing and considering a second reading, to merge it with a bill prepared by the National Deputies. [[No. 2399]] The project received a positive conclusion from the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration of the Supreme Council. The programme provides for institutional, legislative and organizational measures aimed at implementing structural institutional reforms in the housing and utility market, including the development of a system of national regulation of natural monopolies, competitive relations in the housing market, increased energy efficiency of the housing fund and municipal infrastructure. To our deep conviction, once the reforms of the housing and utilities industry have been completed, they have to become regular profitable, efficient companies and gradually lose their budget support. This sector should become attractive to investment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u28	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u29	Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor, Vladimir Mikhailovich. We need to rekindle society's respect for utilities, restore the high prestige of the profession of residential workers, make society our ally. This program is of great social importance, touching each person directly. And that's why over the last 17 years everything that's been going on in the field has been considered because of the prism of political populism. We have no right to continue this policy in terms of the field. Today, we have a unique opportunity to unite and, regardless of political preferences, to support this vital reform for society, especially since the rhetoric of all political forces in this area, in fact, coincides today on fundamental issues. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u30	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Alexander Pavlovich of the Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u31	Dear colleagues, I have the honour to report the committee's decision. But still, from the Party of Regions, I'm going to say that these are important issues, like reforming housing and utilities, in two minutes to consider, I don't think it's appropriate. As for the committee's decision. As a result of the Committee's consideration, the Committee decided to propose to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian Law on the National Programme for the Reform and Development of Housing and Utilities to be adopted on a basis and in preparation for the second reading, to merge it with a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the National Programme for the Reform and Development of Housing and Utilities, into one bill, as well as to work on taking into account the comments made and proposals made by subjects of the law of the legislative initiative. [[Registration number 2399]] I want to comment on the committee's decision. The point is that the issue of housing-communal reform has matured a long time ago. And we know that today is a program that was adopted in 2004. Its term ends in the 10th year, but it's morally, truly, objectively outdated. And as you remember, in 2007, the Ministry of Housing and Utilities was formed, which was primarily the task of reforming and developing the LHC. By that time, there was an alternative program in 2007, but it was not accepted because of what Parliament had not done. In the spring of last year, the MPs from the Party of Regions registered a new bill, which unfortunately was not put into the hall and I think it was a serious mistake from the majority. Why? Because today we're talking about most of the problems of housing and utilities, if you've accepted it and edited it. With the introduction of his program by the government, the committee held meetings several times in order to identify joint actions before.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u32	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u33	to make a common, objective decision. And that's why this proposal really came about to unite the efforts of all the political forces, because it's a completely non-political issue -- the housing and utility system -- in order to achieve positive results for society. I ask you to support this bill, the next one to be discussed.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u34	Yes, thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the speech, two in favour, two in favour. Please sign up. Please put the names of the national deputies on the sign-up sheet. John Kirilenko is transferring the right to speak to the national deputy of Serbia. Please, from the rostrum, you can get out of here as comfortable as you can. Get ready, Scooby.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u35	Dear colleagues, my colleague, Alexander Pavlovich, said that the committee supported the program provided by the government. True, 50 percent of the speeches were about what a good party of regions was, but I still support it because the bill is not political and needs to be supported. Of course, any program that we don't now accept will be ineffective if there is no money to do it. Now is a very difficult situation, a difficult time, but still a strategic question, how, where should we move on the housing and utilities, we should take you with us. And the first is, of course, the creation of an effective owner of housing. OSBB is not a panacea of all diseases, but we still have to go on the road to create more and more OSBBs. And the first path is to create a legislative act for us that would require new houses to be put into service, especially with State support, to create a union of co-owners. The second question is how and how we're going to consume less energy. So the program is about how we're going to implement energy-saving technologies. And that's absolutely necessary, because without that, our housing and utility fund will never come out of the gap that it's in. And the program answers these questions. Another question: Who will serve this? The OSBB can hire and serve housing, and it can hire private Jackets. So creating competition on this issue is a necessary issue so that we can raise the quality of services for our population. There are also shortcomings in the program. For example, I personally have doubts as to why we should create this commission? To make it. Another commission to regulate and monitor services.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u36	The ability to finish, give me an opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u37	We already have committees and committees. Yet, it is not a flaw that will not solve the issue of approving the program for us in the first reading. That's why I support what the committee decided to do, the scientific expertise that suggests that the room support this program in the first reading. And our faction also asks you to vote on this nonpolitical but very useful document. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u38	Zinov Skutak, faction of "Our Ukraine People's Self-Defense." Next is Mikola Kravchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u39	Honourable deputies, honourable colleagues, indeed the scheme of reforming housing and utilities is not new to Ukraine and there are long attempts to do so. Unfortunately, the result is small enough than that. And today we have two bills that are presented, I understand, by the Ministry and the MPs, and they are similar to each other in some way. What should be said in this regard? This question is so important that it is now absolutely relevant for every Ukrainian citizen. We understand very well that in some ways today this reform of housing and utilities is first of all a little late in Parliament, on the one hand. On the other hand, it is already a problem today, because every reform, and this one, also requires considerable costs. We know that in today’s conditions these costs cannot be invented this year. But in the first reading, we have to accept the program, as recommended by a committee that has considered both of these bills scrupulously. On the one hand, I just want to point out one thing that, I think, we need to take a second look at it. First of all, this program is extremely related to local self - government and, to some extent, if we accepted it as it is today, it is interfering with the functions and tasks of the local community.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u40	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u41	Two words.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u42	Yes, yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u43	I think it's inappropriate today to consider creating an additional organization at a state-wide level on a controlled basis or because it has to set tariffs. I think it's a function of local self-governance, and I need to leave it at local self-governance. And the second question is that in the second reading we really need to have a common document that has to be combined with serious additions, which will necessarily be from local governments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u44	Mikola Kravchenko, Communist faction, please have the right to speak. Jaroslav Suhi will be next. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u45	Cowchenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues! The bill that we are considering today is a clear example of how we should not waste time on empty conversations. You will see the days when these bills entered parliament when they were passed. They do not take into account the realities of life that exist today. They don't take into account the vakhanalia that's being created in the JCC in our capital, in the city of Kiev. You see, this one increases 10 times, Chernovetski, utilities, the President cancels. He then solves the problem on the half decks, and they thus protrude, choke through payments. The fact is that if a state-wide programme is to be developed, it must be developed only in the light of funding opportunities. Given the demands of today's crisis phenomena. And speaking of how irrationally we are wasting our time, Vladimir Mihajlovich, I'm calling your attention again to the next moment. I saw the schedule of meetings. It's all about how the poppy is not sown and about the development of the goat, and about the bats, and so on. But why aren't there issues related to taxes on transport equipment that have affected tens of millions of people today? Why isn't there a bill that I've been drafted to reduce fines for auto-infringements for traffic. We understand everything we've done. So, I'm willing to work at least until night, but let's face it, if we're looking at bats, I don't agree to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u46	Thank you. National deputy Popov. Please, Alexander Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u47	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I would like to draw your attention to a few points on which, I believe, in this context, the programme could not have been adopted. First of all, it is not a secret today that housing and utilities, especially thermal energy, water and sanitation, especially thermal energy, water and sanitation, are almost bankrupt. And if today, at least one power-generating organization brought a lawsuit, that would really happen. But, thank God, there is a moratorium on the bankruptcy of these enterprises. If we take the programme, I will not vote on page 9, it says here in one of the paragraphs that a new bill should be drafted this year on the specifics of privatization in the housing sector, which practically paves the way for the bankruptcy of enterprises and the privatization of those enterprises and then for a private initiative. But listen, we are talking about strategically important sites not only for the territorial communities, but also for the population as a whole. This is the first moment. And second moment. You see, in my view, reform, any and all housing and utilities, first of all, can only be real if the State assumes some financial burden on the solution to the problems that have arisen today. But if we look at the programme that we are discussing today, it is a declaration because there is little financial support for the State. And notice, this programme, it's already, by the way, we're adding its 2008 date and five years, that is, it's already, it's already been used last year, this year, obviously, the government is working on this programme, but the situation is getting worse and worse. I'm just 100 percent sure and I'm willing to argue that if this programme is adopted, we're going to have a huge increase in housing and utility tariffs, because we still need to repair pipelines, change pumps, boilers and.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u48	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u49	And all of this has to be put into the tariff. Such a course was unacceptable for Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. Minister Alexy Kucherenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u51	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Ladies and gentlemen, Your Honor Alexander Pavlovich, I would like to answer your question. The first is about budget support. Believe me, I'd like a hundred billion to be budgeted. But you have to understand that someone has to pay these taxes. Let's ask the owners, let's say, the Poltava GOK or the metallurgical, another combination, or else, can they pay these taxes today? I can inform you that exactly an hour ago, the government of Ukraine and the World Bank officially launched a urban infrastructure project today. Three companies in the three cities of Odessa, Chernigu, Ivano-Frankivsk, and the water canal companies have invested the World Bank for 17 years. For the first four years of the loan, you don't have to return the loan body. Four percent of the year's just under modification, under energy conservation, under higher quality, and we'll be with you on the basis of the budget that we'll actually be able to help with some co-financing. And that's what the ideology of this program is all about. There's no other way. All the rest, unfortunately, is just populism, and the budget has to be paid. And as far as privatization is concerned. Dear Alexander Pavlovich, I support you that we are both discussing with the authorities of local self-government, and with you, and we will make, I think, a political decision to go to privatization or not. But I would like to point out that today, in the absence of laws on privatization, on the characteristics of renting concessions to local authorities, nothing prevents local government authorities from passing 49 years on rent for 25 years on rent. And, you know, it seems to me that we need to make a political decision quickly than to continue the mess that today is with the municipal property that belongs to the communities, not to the city heads and not to the city authorities, starting with the city of Kiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u52	Thank you. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion of the draft Law on the National Programme for the Reform and Development of Housing and Utilities for 2008-2012 has been completed. Obviously, they had the iron logic of the national MPs, our colleague, Mikola Kravchenko, who said that the law was out of date and largely did not match the realities that had arisen. But, dear fellows, let's take a look at this proposal, which is the committee's proposal to take it as a basis and to work radically on this bill, because we have a professional committee in this regard and he recommends that we consider this bill, that is to say accept it as a basis. Please turn on the microphone from the Alexander Popov Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u53	Vladimir Mihajlovich, well, twice my name has been remembered, so I'll take advantage of the right of reply.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u54	Please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u55	I just want to reiterate once again that Minister Alexei Juryevich's statement confirms the conclusions that I have said that this is a burden on the tariffs and will pay the population for this and that we are on the way to privatizing enterprises, which cannot be allowed. With regard to the Committee's opinion, I stress, despite some comments, that serious comments on the draft are needed to consolidate this and the next one and make the right decision. I think it will be difficult work, but it will be effective for our society. I beg your pardon.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u56	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please note that the proposal for a committee on adoption is based on draft law, registration number 3063 on the National Programme for Reforming and Development of Housing and Utilities for 2008-2012. Please vote. [[11:04:04:04]] For 391 Decision taken. Thank you. The draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Universal Programme for the Reform and Development of Housing and Utilities for 2004-2010 is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 2399]] The rapporteur is the deputy head of the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing and Regional Policy, Alexander Pavlovich Popov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u57	Dear colleagues, first of all, the decision of the Committee. I would like to say that, as in the first case, the Committee's decision was unanimous, namely to support the bill, to align it with the previous one and to take a second reading with a joint joint decision. With regard to the content of the bill. First of all, in its design and its conclusion to, well, to put it that way, the condition is objective, we have, including the expertise of the Council of Europe. Many comments were received, which could be taken into account in the preparation for second reading. We have an official appeal by the Ukrainian City Association to our committee, in which they support our option in two ways. Therefore, from my point of view and in this regard, we have become more civilized in preparing it. But the main points I'd like to report to you. The purpose of our bill is, indeed, even in the most difficult circumstances in the country, to curb the rise in housing and utility tariffs. The mechanisms offered by State support are absolutely realistic. And if someone in this room thinks that people can solve the problem of JCC, and the State does not participate financially in this process, it is the same as today - to talk about the need, including energy savings, and not to finance this direction. It's absurd, it's a dead end. That is why we have several principles. First course. The allocation of financial resources is energy saving, the updating of core funds, especially when we have a very serious rise in energy prices and need to save them in this situation. We offer such State support. This is the first moment. Second moment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u58	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u59	So I have four minutes. Next moment. The first programme was not about how to deal with the problems of the country's Housing Fund. There's a statement about what to do. But if we are included in the programme, there are no mechanisms. Colleagues, if we don't solve the problem of the Ukrainian Housing Fund, how can we solve everything else? They use utilities. In our programme, therefore, a serious resource of 13 billion rubles is planned to support the initiatives of the population living in this housing fund. And in the case of the establishment of FSBs, the State will allocate its share of the financial contribution in support of such initiatives. So we're going to get away from the emergency of the housing fund, we're going to get away with a lot of costs and energy savings. A very important moment, I wish to stress this, is also the direction in our programme to address the problems of small towns in Ukraine. This is again spoken of very far away in the country, but no concrete steps have been taken. It is the worst situation there is today: there is no budget or business to initiate any action in this direction. Therefore, there is certainly a need for State support in this regard. By implementing this programme, we will not only reduce the cost, we will reduce the cost of utilities, but of course we will also provide better and more accessible services to the population. There is no doubt that many of you will say: “This is a great resource. Yeah, but let's just say it's a 5-6 program, or maybe we'll come to a seven-year view. That's why it's so financial.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u60	Alexander Pavlovich, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u61	Such funding must be provided. And I think we'll find a common language in the committee. Thank you very much for your attention. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u62	Thank you. Please sit down. Two in, two in, two in. Serbian Yuri Sergiyovich, please. Serbian Yuri Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u63	I'm in position. Dear colleagues! Well, after this bill. The committee also supported Alexander Pavlovich’s rightfully that the committee is proposing to unify the two bills. But if we're being honest about the findings of the Science and Experimental Authority, the conclusion of the Scientific and Experimental Authority is negative, and he's only suggesting that we take some positions from this bill. But if you express your point of view and the point of view of our faction, we think it's a really non-political document. This document is needed in order for it to be worked out by all parliaments. That is why we support the proposal and the committee, and my colleague Popov, so that we and our faction will vote for him to be accepted in the first reading and then united. Because it's for the benefit of sharing who's better, who's worse, and for the sake of the country, it doesn't make any sense. So I also ask the entire room to support this bill in the first reading, in the first reading, with a view to uniting and working together. There are shortcomings in the bill, but there are also positive moments without which it is impossible to work out our government's agenda, although it is a little better. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u64	Thank you. Alexy Vitaliovich Plonikov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u65	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! I want to fully support my colleague Popov and my colleague Serbin in that this is a very relevant bill. And we must support him regardless of political preferences. One of the main positions, one of the main positions, is that, according to this law, the key powers in the area of development, the exercise of control of the government program is given to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Given that this focuses attention on executive power, given that this is an opportunity to quickly monitor the implementation of these targeted programs, it is also, of course, important and one that should improve the housing and utility system. So once again, I want to support and urge everyone to vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u66	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u67	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Ladies and gentlemen, we have a strange situation. Five minutes ago we adopted a programme, adopted a bill called the National Programme for Reforming and Development of Housing and Utilities. True, it was named for 2008, which had already passed, 2012. Obviously we're going to have to make changes, write for the ninth year and so on, and round and round and round. That's understandable. And now we're being offered instead of an existing program that's now being implemented, which is approved for 2004-2010, to change, to change the law on this program and to write in the name, to replace it with the figures 2009-2013. [[How it's done, that's another question.]] I'm asking you, is that legal or not? Today, there is a law that is being implemented, including that of the Ministry. There is a law that says that certain measures have been taken since 2004 until there is a new program. Thus, from a legal point of view, such a question is wrong. That's exactly what scientific expertise suggests. They simply wrote that the bill could not be adopted in order for ordinary bills. So constructive suggestions can be taken into account when making changes. And now I want you to guess what I'm talking about right now. I quote. “As of 1 January 2008, the accounts receivable and lending debt in the field amounted to 8.8 billion and 9.2 billion dollars respectively. Business losses totalled 1.8 billion dollars in 2007. This is at a time when Mr. Janukovich ruled the government, and this is written in this program, which is being proposed today, by respected friends. So I'd like you to understand that the housing-communal sphere is not built or destroyed in one year, and it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u68	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u69	Thank you. Dear friends, I suggest, because the housing-communal area is not built in one year, and this is a long process, we have now adopted in the first reading a program that can be worked out by positive elements of this program, and this program, which is, for 2004-10, the government has to carry out until the new program comes into effect. So constructive moments need to be taken into account. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u70	Thank you. The discussion is over. In view of the proposals that came from the National Deputies and from the Committee, I am voting on the adoption of Bill No. 2399 amending the Ukrainian Law on the Universal Programme for the Reform and Development of Housing and Utilities for 2004-2010 in the first reading with the commission of the Committee in preparation for the second reading to merge the two projects 3063 and 2399. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:15:29]] For 354 Decision taken. A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the administration of public property objects, No. 2532, is being announced for consideration. He'll report. Do we have Anatoly Arkadyovich? Yes. First Deputy Minister of Economy Anatoly Arkadyovich Maksut.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u71	Mr. Chairman, honourable national deputies, your opinion is proposed by the draft Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the administration of public property. The purpose of this law is to clarify the authority of public property entities to improve such management, to eliminate the conflicts and inaccuracies that take place and to give rise to ineffective governance and to affect the state’s preservation of state property. The main tasks of the law are: - it is the exercise of authority by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and other bodies of administration in accordance with the Act on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine; - clarifying the specific powers for the management of state property by national scientific institutes, the definition of the concept of “State Shareholder Society” and the legal status of its property. In particular, the draft law authorizes the Cabinet of Ministers to approve the transfer of powers from the administration of corporate rights to the appropriate authorities and the conversion of state-owned enterprises into shareholders societies, 100 per cent of which belong to the State; - To approve the list of strategic sectors and economic complexes; - the ministries and authorities to ensure that the audit of the financial and economic activity of the state-owned enterprise is carried out in the event of a change in its management; - to manage state property that did not form part of statutory funds of cooperatives established in the corporate process; - appoint representatives of the State to the authorities of the management of the companies whose corporate rights are in their administration. Some powers of the State Property Fund are also foreseen. The Ministry of Economics is supposed to monitor and analyse the efficiency of management. Some clarifications have also been made regarding the authority of the National.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u72	Finish it, Anatoly Arkadyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u73	I'm done. The main thing to do is to define the concept of a “State Shareholder Society” as a society, one hundred percent of which belongs to the State. By the way, there wasn't a definition before. Asking you to support this bill is very important to improve the efficiency of ownership management and its preservation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u74	Thank you. The account. Alexander Mikolaiovich Bondar, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u75	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies! The Economic Policy Committee considered a draft law submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers. I'm not going to repeat its contents, I want to focus your attention on the following. That this law has been adopted by the Supreme Council of the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers, and the purpose of the amendments to this law is to align the rules of the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers with those of the Law on the administration of public property. The second task is to comply with the rules of the Ukrainian Code of Master and the law on the State Property Fund, which we will consider today. This law needs to be adopted in the first reading; it will remove all inadequacies, inconsistencies that exist today in existing legislation regarding the administration of public property. The chief scientific and expert board of the Supreme Council of Ukraine believes that this law can be adopted in the first reading, although they suggest that the committee review it again in the first, but it's all the same as considering the remark to the second reading. The Budget Committee sees no impact here on the income and expenditure of the budget. The Economic Policy Committee is proposing to support this bill on the basis of further elaboration of comments to be made by the People's Deputies and the Scientific and Experimental Authority on second reading. People's deputies would like to support the bill as a basis for the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u76	Thank you, Alexander Mikolayovich. Let's sign up for a discussion. Two in, two in. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u77	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. Ladies and gentlemen, if we say that we have a reduced procedure, I would like to say that the proposals for changes to the Code of Masters deserve attention. But the new edition of part seven of article 74 contradicts the nature of the shareholders' society, which, as a stockholder's company, is the owner of the assets transferred by shareholders to it as a contribution to the statutory capital. Thus, this approach does not correspond to the nature of the right to economic knowledge, which is considered to be a derivative of the State’s right to property that is secured by state enterprises and organizations, not by legal persons of private law. It's about the unappreciativeness of this approach that has been warned by scientific and scientific management. So this part, this part has to be removed from this part second, this is absolutely appropriate. By sharing the concern that the government is proposing to adopt this bill, I want to say that there are positive features in this bill. And I'm going to allow myself not to agree with the scientific expertise that thinks it can't be accepted on the first reading, but to be re-readed on the first reading. Because there are good proposals here that relate to the characteristics of government and the restrictions on the management of public property, which are particularly important at this point in time when they continue with the process of vacchanization of power, property clearance, privatization of land in which such property is located. And it clearly states that they cannot be removed, transferred to the statutory fund of other farms, and that they cannot be acted upon as a result of alienation. I suggest you take the first one.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u78	Bondarenko Volodymir Dmitrovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u79	Vladimir Bondarenko, Timoshenko Yuli Block. I feel that this law must be adopted in the first reading, but it also needs to be worked out. I have repeatedly faced the facts not only of the effective management of individual subjects of state property but also of the criminal treatment of them, such as the physical destruction of these objects, or the transfer of them at surpluses, or at residual prices to other structures, including the consent of regional property management and so forth. In particular, land is also involved. Now, I've just started and I'm doing a correspondence, but why 16.5 hectares that were transferred by the National Guard to the internal forces have turned into 16,000 hectares of the Rzisztow range, which is now being actively built. Those who are in charge today should report this on a continuous basis and be under constant control. That is why this law must be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u80	Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u81	Dear colleagues, this bill has no bearing on enhancing the efficiency of state-owned stock companies. It is very difficult to convince someone else because even in his speech, Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, who always works with laws and knows them, made the main remark, it is totally contrary to the Code of Lords. What are we talking about? And there are prerequisites for a further simplified accelerated process of privatization, including objects of strategic importance. In the course of our laws and regulations, such an object can be privatized. But I want to focus all my colleagues on something else. Here today, in the session room, much was said in the morning about a shared responsibility: The opposition must be responsible, the opposition must work! I want to ask you, in the authorities, what are you calling us to cooperate with? Remember, on February 23, 2007, the best part of the B.U.T. was first closed in the men’s room and then switched to the electric shield. Why? The adoption of the Act on Housing and Utilities Tariffs was required. Where are these laws? You're in power, bring them in. Let's work on them together. Why there is no bill today from the government or from the President on fiscal incentives for the real economy in the hall. Dear colleagues, Ukraine on the verge of bankruptcy, before us is a serious defolt ghost. You want to unite us, do you want to consolidate the session hall? Well, then, don't openly lobby the bill, it's not cynically written, but it's the bill that unites the room around finding ways to prevent the worst case scenario from developing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u82	Remnant Mary Volodymyrna. Alexandrovska Alla Alexandrovna Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u83	The well-respected colleagues proposed by the Government for changes in the management of public property facilities raise many questions and raise the thought of not being able to support these proposals. First of all, the government is introducing, so to speak, innovation. The right to decide on State-owned enterprises is reserved to the Government. Such decisions are currently made only by Ukrainian laws in existing legislation. Thus, by the way, the National Stock Exchange Company OilGaz of Ukraine was held. The transfer of authority to shares from the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Government is unacceptable. This leads to a serious decline in the powers of the Supreme Council and the cooling down of the notion of parliamentaryism itself. Second. It is excluded from the law and from the provision that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine lays down criteria for the selection of personal objects for transfer to the administration of authorized persons. Thus, if there are no criteria, all these decisions will be taken subjectively. This will open the hands of the Government, whether it is followed or not, and of course we cannot agree with this. The law provides that the Government shall determine the value of the property of the State and a number of other interesting provisions. What does the Government offer? It denies these functions, it only assumes the functions of approving valuation methods, and you and I know that the methodology is the road that can lead to a deadlock. We must say that there is another norm that we cannot agree with. The following provision is excluded from article 16 of the Ukrainian Act: the responsible representative of the authorized authority shall monitor and approve the preparation of financial plans by the public undertaking. That is, today this provision is excluded. Thus, the most serious verification function is excluded. Therefore, the Communist faction cannot accept such proposals.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u84	Thank you, Hello. The discussion is over. I am voting on a proposal by the adoption committee in the first reading of the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the administration of public property. Number 2532. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:29:03]] For 212 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. The draft Law on Supplementing Article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on Renting State and Municipal Property is being announced for consideration. Number 2594. He will report to the First Deputy Head of the State Committee on Television and Radio Broadcasting of Murachovsky Anatoly Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u85	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! Allow me to introduce a draft Ukrainian Law on Supplementing Article 9 to the Ukrainian Law on State and Communal Property Rental. It is designed to support the book - making work in Ukraine. And by introducing this law, I will say that the main purpose of this law is to expand the book distribution network and to grant the majority of rentals of public and municipal property to the subjects of the publishing work. It is not a secret that the narrowing of the book trade network today inhibits the development of a book study in Ukraine. Sadly, this network was destroyed. The bill provides for the addition to article 9 on State utility rentals in the part of the establishment of regulations, according to which no less than 50 per cent of the volume of books produced in the public language will be required to conduct a competition for renting premises held in public and municipal property. This law will contribute to the development of publications, book distribution companies interested in renting public and municipal property, and the restoration of a nationwide distribution network. And in addition, I'm going to say that unfortunately, today we have a really bad statistic with the development of a book trade network. In fact, this will move us to include the national importance of protectionism in supporting this area. Our society can't satisfy about 1,047 bookstores that operate in Ukraine while in the late 1990s this was four times.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u86	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u87	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u88	According to Alexander Mikolaiovich Bondar
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u89	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies! I want to pay particular attention to the urgency of this bill for today. This is about supporting the book - making work, 50 percent of which is produced in the national language. The situation is now so complex, especially in Kiev, that leases are being broken down, these enterprises are being evicted, leases are not continuing, and this is happening all over Ukraine. The bill envisages renting companies that issue such products without a competition to continue leases. And most importantly, if the company doesn't comply with 50 percent of the output in the national language, it's the right to terminate the leases. The committee considered the bill and suggested that it be adopted in the first reading. Science and expertise has a point to the bill, but unfortunately, they are the nature of the need to amend another law, which provides for the re-submission of this bill by the Cabinet of Ministers. We suggest we accept it, the committee, as a basis. But personally, I would ask myself to listen to my opinion, because the situation is now getting worse every day, to adopt this bill as a whole, as a law today, to be signed immediately by the President. The Committee on Freedom of speech, information, and we must do so today. I'm telling you again, every day there are terrible things going on with the bookstore that publishes Ukrainian literature in the national language. I'm asking you to support the bill as a whole. In the second reading, there is virtually nothing to change; there is a provision for this legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u90	Please sign up for the discussion. Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u91	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear colleagues, here and in the body of the bill, and in the presentation of the executive representative, the word “protectionism” has spoken several times. I understand that on a domestic level, it can be evaluated, discussed on the basis of whether it's good protection or not in the field of human resources and so forth. But when it comes to national interest, I think protectionism is a positive thing. What is actually foreseen in this bill. It is expected that citizens of Ukraine will be given the opportunity to have bookstores, very simple. Mothers of the label, so that they will not be evicted by casinos, play clubs, and nightclubs. Is that bad or good? Is it the right protectionism or the right protectionism? That's good. The second moment, perhaps hypothetically, will call for a discussion of the norm, which is primarily the case with those publications, those institutions that produce at least fifty percent of the books in the national language. I think it's liberal enough and normal enough. It does not record ninety percent of what France does, we do not talk about Russia, they do very seriously and do the right thing, they protect, they stretch, they protect their language, they protect their language, and 50 percent of it is a very soft form. To make a consolidated decision, it seems to me, you can leave it. Thus, another 49 percent, at least, can be published in other languages, Russian, and other languages of the nations and peoples living in Ukraine. So I think it's the right bill, we have voted for it because everyone today likes to use the professor's words.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u92	Complete, please, Oleg Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u93	The words of Professor Premonition from the “Holy Heart ” of Bulgakov, who is a wreck, are the head. There are no books -- no ruins, no bookstores, no publications -- that bring people to life. We're all against this. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u94	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich. From the site, turn on Carmazine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u95	Yuri Carmazin. I'm asking you to give the floor to the national deputy Schlemko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u96	National Deputy Schlemko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u97	Indeed, there are priorities that require the support of all because it is much easier to lose than it is to acquire. This is now the case with domestic enterprises that produce and distribute book publishing in the national language. It's not the enterprises that are rich, it's the businesses that are surviving today, and that's why they don't give what the Ukrainian nation wants to see in Ukrainian. Therefore, they need to be supported today, which is why the addition of article 9 of the Law on State and Municipal Property Rent to the non-proliferation of the requirement for a rental of premises in state and municipal property allows them to do so. Therefore, it is really necessary to uphold this law today, not only in the first reading but also in general, that Ukraine has long awaited this addition.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u98	Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u99	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies! The project is proposed in order to promote the development of a book - making business in Ukraine and to grant subjects the right to rent public and municipal property without a competition. After considering the project, we consider it appropriate to make such comments and suggestions about its contents. First. In our opinion, it is more appropriate to focus on State support for the bookstore in a single legislative act on this subject, which is the Ukrainian Law on State Support for the Bookstore in Ukraine, where the issue of such support will be addressed in a comprehensive manner. In this regard, we feel that the rules on the renting of public and municipal property by the subjects of the book - making business are better transferred to the law, adding a new article to it. Under these conditions, the amendments to the Ukrainian Act on State and Municipal Property Rental may be limited by supplementing its article with the first enforcement rule to be established that the rental of the property concerned is governed by this Act, taking into account the features provided for in the Act on State support for the bookstore in Ukraine. Note that the proposals for the draft supplement, providing that, in the case of a rental contract submitted by a publishing entity, paragraph 1.3 of Part 7 of the competition is not applied, does not determine who will be the renter if two or more subjects of the publishing business apply for a single lease. We consider it appropriate to bring this bill back for re-reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u100	Tomenko Mikola Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, I am grateful to the previous speaker who read the conclusion of the Science and Experimental Authority. The only thing he's done is let one thing go wrong, because in the conclusion of the Scientific and Scientific Administration, it's said that the law has to be adopted. And the observations that we've just heard, once again, are 100 percent of the scientific expertise, they're formal. Well, you can put that in a separate law, you can regulate it in this law. Friends, when we debated and wrote about newspapers, we didn't talk about publishing. In fact, this law determines our commitment when a few weeks ago we discussed the history of newspapers. So there's a real one observation by the Scientific and Expert Office about a theoretically possible precedent, when, for example, there are two publications in one room. Well, that's it. This may happen once a hundred years ago, and the local authorities will understandably deal with it. A publication that has a tradition that works systematically, has a name and is entitled to write it down. So, my friends, we're actually in a crisis situation today with regard to the field of bookkeeping. And by decree, with all due respect to the Parliament that we've adopted, we, for example, these dignitaries of the Kiev City Administration, can't stop, there must be law. So I support those colleagues who said that these remarks were of a formal nature. Therefore, it would be right to act in Parliament’s first reading, in the second and in general, and to protect either the publications that are now living, working, and promoting the Ukrainian book. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u102	The discussion is over. I'm voting on the committee's proposal to adopt a draft law supplementing article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on Rental of Holding and Municipal Property. [[Registration number 2594]] I'd like to make a statement. [[11:43:02]] For 275 Decision taken. A proposal was made during the discussion on the adoption of the draft law as a whole. Are there any objections to the adoption of this draft law in general? There's no objection. I'm voting on the adoption of the entire draft Act supplementing article 9 of the Ukrainian Act on Rent of Holding and Municipal Property. [[Registration number 2594]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:43:48]] For 266 Decision taken. The draft Law amending the Law on Scientific and Technological Activities of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 3015]] He reports as Deputy Minister of Education and Science of Strych Maksim Vitaliyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u103	Highly Honourable First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, Highly Honourable National Deputies! The bill introduced by the government is aimed at optimizing the structure and direction of budgetary funding for the scientific sphere. In particular, it is proposed to amend the article of the first Act by identifying, in addition to fundamental research and applied research, the notion of scientific and technical experimental development. So science and technology is directly focused on creating new materials, products, processes. This is due to the transition of Ukraine to internationally recognized UNESCO criteria because, unfortunately, Ukraine does not use these criteria today. And then in all the international handbooks, there's just no data on our scientific activities. There's nothing about Nicaragua about Ukraine for that reason. Article 34 proposes to introduce two methods of budgetary financing, both basic and software-based. And the software and the target method is only applied on competitive grounds, and the species that are financed by it and by that method are identified. And there's a situation where the state gradually increases funding by a software target method to at least 50 percent of budget funding. It is also suggested in article 34 that the state gradually increases its funding of scientific and technological activities to 1.7 percent of GDP. I want to emphasize that the current law explicitly states that the state finances scientific and scientific and technical activities in terms of 1.7 percent of GDP. Unfortunately, the reality is different. This year we have 0.3 percent of GDP. But to completely subtract this figure, as some have suggested, according to the law makers, the government would think it would be wrong, because it would send a very disturbing signal to both our scientific community and the international capacity to support science in Ukraine, especially when the whole world and the United States, and Europe, and Russia, and China are increasing despite the crisis.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u104	Complete, please, Maxim Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u105	The adoption of the law will contribute to the contribution of funds invested in the science of the budget. Please accept this law in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u106	Thank you. Please report – Vladimir Ivanovich Polohalo.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u107	Ladies and gentlemen, since the committee itself initiated amendments to the Law on Scientific and Scientific and Technical Activities, and was in line with the Prime Minister's orders, there were appropriate discussions in the Academy of Sciences, in the field of academics, in the two round tables, and we kept monitoring the passing of this bill, preparing this bill, then, of course, in those remarks as for the first reading of the committee, it proposed, it urged all deputies to support this bill in the first reading. But at the same time, I would like to add that in the course of these discussions, I want to tell you all here that the scientific community is looking closely at this issue right now, and it's only natural that there are problems that aren't even caused by general funding. I want to tell you this number again. In times of crisis today, many governments have gone to increase funding for scientific and technological activities, particularly Finland. But it's about optimism. And that's why it's not going to come out of the crisis if we can't really get the new knowledge that we're about to get into our particular economy. Today, the credo of all countries after the crisis is an innovative development and innovation. We have a catastrophic situation here. And so many proposals went beyond, unfortunately, when this bill was drafted, it didn't go into the bill. In addition, there are also dangerous moments when it comes to 50 percent of the total amount of budget funding. And given that Ukrainian business only finances science, we can have 0.2.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u108	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u109	So I would ask the national MPs to support this bill while allowing the committee to prepare other changes to other articles of this law in order to make it comprehensive and effective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u110	Vladimir Ivanovich, such an assignment should not be given, each national deputy is the subject of a legislative initiative. Please prepare and submit appropriate projects for Parliament’s consideration. Let's sign up for a discussion. National MP, Biruk, please. Leo Vasilovich, where are you?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u111	Bondarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u112	Bondarenko Volodymyr Dmitrovich, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u113	Vladimir Bondarenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear friends, the scientific and technical work that was done back in the Soviet Union and already in free Ukraine, is an extremely serious direction that gives power and our direct manufacturing sphere and the development of basic scientific directions. So in this case, I'm going to support this bill because it foresees at least a small but still financing. And I support the fact that it's more effective in terms of software-based funding because it's a task. Now, in the face of a fuel crisis in Ukraine, because gas is very expensive, the Academy of Sciences and some industry institutions could use a software-based method to provide the development of this technique, for example, the peat, the one that recycles, briquettes, and so on, that's all to be done on a basic basis, on a mission. I am already talking about areas that have long had to be supported in Ukraine and not launched into the state that it is today. Ukraine was a leader in development, including the instruments for space that were being developed today. The Saturn Institute stands today with broken windows, the many scientific studies with beryllium that were carried out at the same Academy of Sciences, where the hull stands destroyed and so on. It needs support, not just for the 50s, but for the 100 percent funding of some of the basics, because they don't have the ability today to make some kind of money in the application order, unlike the scientific developments that have these possibilities. So it's very important again in this area and public control, because sometimes this money just goes around, it's copied from plan to plan, and it's destroyed. I think there should be such a public council at the Academy of Sciences to control the use of budgetary resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u114	Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u115	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear colleagues, I'm going to start by predicting the results of this, as the subject of the legislative initiative in the explanatory note suggests: the effective use of scientific and technical potential is possible only if all its components interact in a balanced way -- fundamental science, examples of research and development. Right? That's right. But on the other hand, three observations, without which it is simply impossible to vote in general. First. Indeed, the subject of the legislative initiative confirmed that there were discussions when the talk was about the gradual increase in budgetary funding for science and science and technology to 1.7 percent of GDP. Basically, you can talk about it here -- two percent, 1.5. I have another question. If that's the law. Not a declaration of intent, it should be determined by law, and by what year will this plan be reached -- 1.7 percent -- in five years, in 10 years, in 50 years? I think it should be taken into account, otherwise it's an illegal declaration. One second. It is determined that I quote: “ When it comes to establishing the optimal ratio and proportions between fundamental and applied scientific research and the implementation of scientific and technological development.” There are doubts. Do you know what they're all about? Where are the criteria? Where are the criteria clear and principles for determining optimalness and supply? What will result from the law’s enforcement by determining the optimum proportions? Obviously, the law also provides for such fundamental things to be taken into account. And the last. This is about actually removing scientific personnel from basic funding. You know, from the point of view of it -- and you've already talked about -- the state's development strategies, in terms of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u116	Please, by subject, but please complete your time.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u117	thinking not only about today, but also about the day after tomorrow, is obviously not going to be able to throw the funding of scientific personnel out of the state execution. It seems to me, given these, my, including the comments, you can then, for the second reading, prepare and vote in general. Now it's on the ground. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u118	Thank you, Oleg Alexanderovich. The discussion is over. I am voting on the proposal of a professional committee on adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Law on Scientific and Technological Activities of Ukraine. [[Registration number 3015]] I'd like to make a statement. [[11:55:35]] For 264 Decision taken. A draft Act amending article 3 of the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Legal Persons and Business Persons is being announced for consideration. Reported by Justice Minister Onichuk Mikola Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u119	The Honourable Chairman, the Honourable National Deputies, the Government has developed and introduced to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a bill to remove the differences that exist today between the Special Code of the Master, the Law of Ukraine on Commodity Exchange and the Law of Ukraine on the State Registration of Legal Persons and Personal Entrepreneurs. The point is that in accordance with the Law on the Commodity Exchange, it is recognized as one of the types of enterprises and, in particular, in matters of registration, registration, the authority to register the stock market, it sends to the Law on the National Registration of Legal Persons and Natural Persons Entrepreneurs. This contradiction, which is that the current legislation refers to the Ministry of Justice, should be removed by amending article 3 of the Law on State Registration of Legal Persons and Natural Persons - Entrepreneurs, in particular by deleting in part 4 of this article the position that markets are subject to registration by the Ministry of Justice. I want to point out that the Ministry of Justice doesn't have, according to its position and the logic of its sphere of responsibility, to answer and register enterprises, it's the function of the relevant body that does this today, it's ensuring proper registration. Please support the bill. He has no comments from the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration and provided that if the committee agrees to this proposal, it is accepted today as a basis and as a whole, given the lack of comments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u120	Thank you, Mikola Vasilovich. The report by Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u121	Honourable Alexander Volodymyrovich, honourable national deputies, Committee on Industrial, Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship at its meeting on 17 September 2008, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Article 3 of the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Legal Persons and Business Persons, registered number 3068, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The purpose of the bill is to remove disagreements in legislation regarding the state registration of exchanges, to bring into line with the specific provisions of the Ukrainian Law on State registration of legal persons and natural persons of entrepreneurs, to other Ukrainian laws regulating the order of state registration of exchanges, the Ukrainian Economic Code, the Ukrainian Law on Commodity Exchange. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in its conclusion to the bill of 10.09.2008, found that the draft law could be adopted as a basis for consideration in the first reading. During the discussion of the bill, the members of the committee agreed with the Government's proposal to exclude from article 3 of the Ukrainian Law on State registration of legal persons and individuals of entrepreneurs, in view of the fact that the legislation does not define the characteristics of the public market registration body. Taking into account the above, the members of the committee decided to amend article 3 of the Ukrainian Act "On the State Registration of Legal Persons and Persons of Entrepreneurs", registration number 3068, to submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and to propose that it be accepted as a basis and as a whole as a law. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u122	Let's sign up for a discussion. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich. Out of the way, please, Carmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u123	Yuri Carmazin, Our People's Self-Defense Party. Ladies and gentlemen, I agree with the Minister of Justice and the committee that this bill, because it is a very small, in fact, out of four sentences, we have to accept it as a whole. In the first reading and in general, because it is only about removing one word – “market”. No legislative acts that regulate activity today, the registration of state markets does not prevent this, because today it is regulated by both the Civil Code and the Code of the Master, and the Law of Ukraine on the National Registration of Legal Persons and Business Persons, and on the Commodity Exchange, and even on securities and stock market. Hence, there is no need for that word to exist today. I agree and ask you to adopt this law immediately in the first reading and in general. There can be no underwater currents on it. I can't see. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u124	Alexei Vitaliovich Plonikov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u125	The honourable chairman, the honourable national deputies, is in principle a perfectly normal phenomenon when the Ministry of Justice will not register the stock exchange. This is not a market registration function, but here is the only observation that the law takes effect from the day it was published. Maybe we should give it a deadline to re-register these exchanges, well, not from the day they were published. Maybe there's a bit of a delay in the stock market. Because since the date of publication of this law, the stock market has not been able to register or withdraw from the Ministry of Justice’s registration. And here's the only observation.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u126	The discussion is over. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in the first reading of the draft Act on Amendments to Article 3 of the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Legal Persons and Business Persons. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:02:40]] For – 376 Decision taken. The proposal of the committee and the national deputies in the discussion was about the possibility of adopting the draft law as a whole. Is there no objection? There's no objection. I would like to vote on the adoption of the whole draft Act on Amendments to Article 3 of the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Legal Persons and Business Persons, Registration No 3068. Please vote. [[12:03:22]] For – 399 The law's been passed. Announcing the project. ((Mw w w w w a l i) Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, I would like to remind you that a little more than an hour ago, you voted in a friendly manner that we are working without interruption until 3:00. That's your decision. So there will be no break today. A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the protection of children's rights is being announced for consideration. Registration number 2409. Report – Justice Minister Oneichuk Mikola Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u127	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! During 2006-2008, Ukraine signed and ratified a number of international conventions, including European conventions on the protection of children's rights, as a state. This called for appropriate changes to national legislation, and for this reason the Government of Ukraine has developed and tabled proposals to Parliament to amend a number of Ukrainian laws, such as the Family Code, the Civil Procedure Code and the Ukrainian Child Protection Act, which are intended to ensure the fulfilment of our international obligations in part of the protection of children's rights. What is it? In particular, amendments to the Family Code are made to articles 157, 159, and 162, which apply to guarantees regarding the exercise of the child’s right to communicate with parents or other relatives who live apart from the child. With regard to the amendments to the Civil Procedure Code, in particular article 27-1, it should regulate the characteristics of the child's involvement in the case, refer to the courts, with a view to respecting its rights and taking into account its interests. With regard to the Child Protection Act, it is particularly about regulating such a concept as contact with a child. You know that these are rather sensitive subjects related to the relationship of parents who live both with their children and when they do not live with their children, but children have a guaranteed right of contact, that is, communication with their parents, even in divorce and other circumstances, especially those that arise in life and in court decisions. Please support this bill as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u128	Thank you. The account by Eugenius Ivanovich Suslov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u129	Dear National Deputies! Draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on child rights protection, registration No. 2409, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine since 18.04. In 2008 Once again, the bill proposes to amend Ukraine's Family Code, Ukraine's Civil Procedure Code, Ukraine's Child Protection Act to bring Ukraine's current legislation into line with Ukraine's international child protection treaties. The Committee supports the offer of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to ensure the protection of children's rights, including through contact with parents, ensuring the right of children to grow in the family environment, and improving the legal protection of minors on the basis of the implementation of specific juvenile justice standards that is common in developed countries around the world. The adoption of the bill is based on the support of the Health Committee and the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. The comments they make can be taken into account in the drafting of the bill for the second reading. The Committee on Budget Affairs decided that the bill had no impact on the income and expenditure of the budget. The Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the protection of children's rights, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, on a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u130	Thank you, Eugene Ivanovich. Let's sign up for a discussion. People's deputy Knjazević, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u131	Dear colleagues, I think it's absolutely indicative in principle that none of the national MPs have signed up against this bill, so I don't think there's even any point in convincing anyone in detail. Another thing I think is that I think they owe it to me to solve this issue. But look when this bill was introduced to the Supreme Council and registered in our apparatus in April 2008. For about a year now, as we have been actively looking out for children, for the protection of them, including the safety of families and the protection of their rights in families, nothing has been done in order to implement those ratified international instruments that anticipated the need for all internal procedures, including the improvement of them and in this part, unfortunately, we have not reached all the issues that we need, and I think so important, that our hands have not reached. First of all, I would like to say that the resolution of this issue at the level of amendment to the Family Code is also part of ensuring the rights of the child to be able to see all parents, i.e. one of the parents, whether the other parent or mother, or one of the family members, is making certain obstacles to this is a decisive step that is being supported, I think, in the vast majority of members of the MPs. Therefore, my position is clear, this bill needs to be supported and persuaded by all colleagues to actively vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u132	Zarubinsky National MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u133	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear colleagues, this is the case when we want to or do not want to live up to our obligations. In fact, Ukraine was rightly said to have signed a number of international treaties. According to law, if Ukraine signs them, it can introduce them into its legislation. One second. Ukraine has signed several Conventions, where the rights of the child are the subject of consideration or consideration, and so should we. But as always, everything is not done very precisely from a legal and technical point of view. So I want to give you two examples that I think we need to do in terms of second reading and voting as a whole. The amendment is to the Family Code where the language says that, I quote: “The expansion of the number of prosecutors and places the child is to be returned to after the illegal change in his place of residence by including the institution where the child lived.” But this should not only be about the institution but also about the institutions. If we don't put that term in a facility, a whole series of children's rights we're actually grading why, I'm giving an example. This is the Ukrainian Act on the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine, the Law of Ukraine on the provision of organisationally legal social protection conditions for orphans and children deprived of parental care. It's about establishments. If we leave only institutions, we properly cut off a number of children who also need protection. Again, in terms of the purity of the legislative process. Here is the standard proposed in the Child Protection Act. [[on actions and guarantees to ensure enforcement of court decisions]] Well, she's obviously asking for changes to the Ukrainian Family Code. We need to see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u134	Thank you, Oleg Alexanderovich. Tomenko Mikola Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u135	Ladies and gentlemen, I think we need to celebrate the good work of the Ministry of Justice here, but in furthering the second reading, we obviously need to find a balance between bringing Ukrainian legislation to European legislation, because in fact, we are cooperating Ukrainian legislation with the European Convention on the Exercise of the Rights of Children and our Ukrainian Practice. I mean, obviously, it would have to involve those who work in the local authorities and the Ministry of Family, Youth and Sports before trials in the area of child rights are carried out in practice, for example, perhaps to regulate the large enough powers that a child receives during this consideration, to regulate from a certain age rather than generally, it is obvious that the authority and responsibility of local authorities and self-government in this part should be increased. So between such a theoretical approach, made by the Ministry of Justice in a filigree, there needs to be a practical part. So I also say that there are a number of such questionable ones, from the point of view of Ukrainian practice and the ability to implement this, especially in the child-protection trial. So when the committee prepares for the second reading, obviously it would be worth having a discussion where, apart from the legal part itself, a practical part of it has been analyzed, as it does. So my proposal is to support the first reading. The committee of our profile is to work actively in the process of further reading and then jointly support this bill, and fulfill Ukraine’s commitment to children and the European community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u136	The discussion is over. I am voting on the basis of the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the protection of children's rights, registration number 2409. Please vote. [[12:14:38]] For 378 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we should now consider a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on the promotion of production and the use of biological fuels, in accordance with the approved schedule of meetings. But in view of the absence of a legislative initiative in the hall, there is a letter from a professional committee that also requests that the matter be moved to the next plenary week. Any objections to the national MPs?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u137	No objection to the transfer? We're taking it to the next plenary week. A draft Coal Gas Act is being announced for consideration. Registration number 1123. He's reporting, Mikhailo Jakovitch Wolintz. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u138	Dear colleagues, distinguished TV viewers! I want to inform you that this is a question of extracting gas from coal layers and the surrounding species we've been trying to consider for at least six years. [[methane]] But each time we could not finally pass this law, because it was once considered in the first reading, and then the cadence ended. Then Parliament was disbanded on time and so forth. But the next thing I'll remind you is that the methane gas of Ukraine is fourth in the world according to its stock volume. Donbas is kind of a gas Kuwait. We are even ahead of the United States, where one billion million tons of coal are produced each year. Only China, Russia, and Canada are ahead of us. And what I'm going to say is that every year we have over 2 billion meters of cubic methane being thrown into the atmosphere, that's about 600 million dollars. We also pollute the air and cause considerable damage to the environment. At the same time, it's being used, it's being disposed of by degassing just 4 percent of the methane gas that's being emitted, that's about 80 million cubic meters. I want to say that 87 percent of the existing mines in Ukraine, in the Donetsk region, Dnipropetrovsk, Lugansk, Lviv, Volinsky, 87 percent of the mines are dangerous by gas factor. What does that mean? This means that the productivity of the work is restrained. For example, after the 2007 mine crash, a special commission controls the mine's operation, while they might be mining on powerful layers and possessing powerful techniques, they might be able to extract about 8 to 9,000 tons. They're only extracting 3,000 tons. But the next thing you can't appreciate is the lives of miners who die massively on the mines of Ukraine. For example, in the United States, Germany has a frequency.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u139	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u140	It's a very important question.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u141	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u142	If in the United States, for example, the rate of trauma is 0.03, we have 3.27 million coals. In addition, the explosions each year cause the entire shafts to become inconvenient. Whole mining products, products. We lose jobs, we destroy technology, that sort of thing. Methane gas, it's pretty good, it's playing a pretty negative role not only in the environment itself, but it's a greenhouse gas, and it's 21 times the carbon dioxide factor. If we could get compensation for gas disposal under the Kyoto Protocol today, we could get up to $50 per thousand cubic meters. So please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u143	Thank you. Please sit down. Let's sign up for a discussion. Yavorovsky Volodymyr Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u144	Vladimir Yavorowski, "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko", city of Kirovograd. It is a pleasure that this long - suffering bill finally landed on our legislative conveyor. In Ukraine there are tremendous problems in this regard. It's just not possible to capture anything in two minutes. But our struggle for our energy independence also lies in this bill. These are also the environmental problems that Ukraine has in this bill. That's other things. And because I'm responsible for the city of Kirovograd, which is actually sitting on uranium mines, and we've been talking for how many years about how many years we need to solve these problems, and somehow those people in the city of Kirovograd who live in these places need some compensation, some social protection. Of course, it's a huge problem and you have to do a colossal job, do a passport for each literal apartment, measure its level, say, radiation. And only then will the next steps be taken. Because of this "Julia Timoshenko Block" today, when we discussed this bill on our faction, he unanimously supported it. Here we just have to take decisive steps, a decisive breakthrough to use this methane gas that we have in Donbas and not just in Donbass, to use it as alternative fuels as alternative supplies. What's more, today we have some very mysterious and, more specifically, a two-pronged solution to the problem of Snake Island. So let's say I read all the newspapers, and I didn't realize whether we won or lost, or whether Romania won more than we did. This law must therefore be passed. And we'll give her back, "The Yulia Tymoshenko Block" will give her all the votes, even more than we have.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u145	Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u146	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is an intuition or prediction that is now in favour of this bill, of course, about 360-380 deputies. I understand that we have to vote for him, because he's finally solving the issues that have come before Ukraine very seriously. It's about not enough energy that we're producing, which is energy of a renewable nature. But why did I take the floor here? Not to criticize this bill, it's okay. But I'm afraid the fate of the law that we have with you somewhere seems to have been voted by 359 deputies at the end of September on the green tariff so-called. Where we've given opportunities and encouraged those who want to develop alternative energy to have a deadline for them to do so under tax conditions. Then we determined 10 days. And I want to remind my colleagues and Michael Wolitz that then there was methane gas in the section of alternative sources of energy that are subordinated and able to use a green so-called tariff. But to date, I can tell you that there are serious obstacles, including local authorities, by the way, and in Crimea, to the development of alternative energy. In this case, in the Crimea of Wind Energy. Why is that clear? Obviously, not all things are convenient in terms of national interests, but of their own interests. So I think we should vote in favour of this bill. Moreover, there is already a legislative basis for the development and use of methane gas, the Green Tariff Act. The one we took along with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u147	Thank you, Oleg Alexanderovich. The discussion is over. I'm voting on the adoption of the draft Coal Gas Act, registration number 1123. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:23:48]] For 257 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, in our previous vote, we have a bill that has been voted on, which has some inaccuracies that are now chronological. I'm going to ask, with your permission, Alexander Mikolaiovich Bondar, that we now make some clarifications regarding the moment of law enforcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u148	The Law “On Renting State and Communal Property, ” which we voted in general, stated in article 2 that this law takes effect as of January 1, 2009. Since we do not have the right to the rear number of laws so that there is no veto of the President, I propose to make an amendment: “It takes effect from the time of publication”. I ask everyone to concentrate and now vote on this amendment so that we don't have any problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u149	Dear colleagues, in the order of 131 articles of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a clarification of the draft law that relates to the time when it becomes effective. I put to the vote the clarification: “The law becomes effective from the moment it is published”. [[12:25:17]] For 265 The clarification is in progress. A draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine on the order of social protection of the population, which resides in uranium mining, nuclear facilities, and radioactive waste surveillance zones, is being announced. Report, Sergey Borisovich Tolub, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u150	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! The development of such a strategically important industry as nuclear power is not possible without the implementation of a series of social protection measures in the areas of monitoring of uranium mining, nuclear facilities, and radioactive waste management. Article 12 of the Ukrainian Law on the Use of Nuclear Energy and Radiation Security states that the population of the areas in which the objects are located is entitled to socio-economic compensation for the risk of their activities. The problem is that the existing legislation today lacks mechanisms to implement the provisions of article 12 of this Law. Consolidation of such mechanisms requires changes to nuclear legislation and some other laws. It is worth noting that in October 2006, adopted by the Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian Social Protection Laws, No. 2325, some issues have been resolved. But it is still not possible for the population to make use of legal rights, since there are no clear definitions of terms, mechanisms for financing appropriate measures. In view of the above, we have introduced a draft law that we are currently considering. First, the adoption of this bill will solve the problem of the source of funding for socio-economic risk compensation for the population living in the area of observation, operating organizations, nuclear facilities, enterprises that are building such facilities and other enterprises in the area of activity. The special rule is that funding will be made from the special fund of the State Budget of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u151	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u152	On the basis of the funds that will come from the relevant enterprises, that is, one percent of the amount of money received from the implementation of the electricity. The other one. The bill proposes to amend the Ukrainian Electricity Act by setting a population electricity tariff of 70 per cent of the current tariff. The bill also creates a clear mechanism for the formation and use of socio-economic compensation. And the use of funds makes it possible to expand the direction of socio-economic compensation and to finance special social infrastructure. The implementation of this law does not require spending the budget. The bill, along with comments, is supported by the Minpalivenergo Ministry of Profiles, and is also discussed and supported at a meeting of the Government Committee on Economic Policy. There's been an overall positive conclusion from the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. The Committee on Fuel and Energy Complex, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security and the relevant committees of the Supreme Council are encouraged to submit Parliament for consideration as a basis for adoption. That's why I'm here to support you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u153	Thank you, Sergey Borisovich. The account. Andrew Leonidovich Derkac, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u154	Honourable National Deputies, the adoption of a draft Law amending certain Ukrainian laws on the organization of social protection issues, which resides in areas of monitoring of uranium mining enterprises, nuclear installations and facilities designed to deal with radioactive wastes, provided that a legislative mechanism for implementing the provisions of article 12 of the Ukrainian Law on the use of nuclear energy and radiation safety could provide a reliable basis for the realization of the rights of the population of areas in which nuclear installations are located, uranium mining enterprises, facilities designed to deal with radioactive waste. The Bible’s Viewpoint of 1 / 1 In 2008, the bill could be adopted in the first reading, taking into account the comments and suggestions made. The Committee on Fuel and Energy Complex, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Safety at its meeting of 16.04.2008 decided to introduce a bill to amend certain laws of Ukraine on the organization of social protection issues in the areas of monitoring of uranium mining enterprises, nuclear facilities and facilities designed to deal with radioactive wastes for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine for adoption as a basis. The project was developed on the basis of NAC Energy, the Ministry of Fuel and Energy, local self-government authorities, taking into account international experience and professional thinking. The implementation mechanism laid down in this bill is in line with nuclear legislation and the PEC development strategy by 2030. A request for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u155	Let's sign up for a discussion, please. Stoyan Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u156	Since my colleague Suhi lives in this area, he knows the problem better, please give him your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u157	Dear colleagues, indeed, for the Ukrainian national deputies who represent the Zaporozhye region in the session hall, this issue is extremely important, especially after the Chernobyl disaster. Article 12 of the basic law referred to in this bill, 2174, really needs its details, namely, the mechanism for implementing the norms that would promote the social protection of the people living in these regions in the areas of enterprise observation, where there are nuclear installations, in this case, I mean the Opposition Nuclear Power Plant. But respectable colleagues, especially from the powerful coalition factions who have recently taken the fashion to appeal to the opposition, you are in power, you see. What you did in the budget. The largest, one of the world's largest nuclear power plants is Zaporezka, and why did we start building bridges? For God's sake, there's a situation that's no good on that shore to us through the Bridges of Presbyterian, one roadblock to Kamaz in the sand, and no one's gonna make it. This creates a nervous, nervous situation in the region of the city of Zaporozhye and in the surrounding towns. So I think that when we're looking at social protection issues for people who live near nuclear power plants that see this nuclear power plant, we have to take into account a comprehensive approach and address social protection issues not only narrowly, but also broad-based social protection measures as to how and how power, as a government, as the Cabinet of Ministers understand this issue. For example, I am most concerned that such bills are not tabled by the government in the session hall. I don't want to criticize the government, but we need to make the laws that are needed in a crisis.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u158	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u159	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense. Ladies and gentlemen, I think this is the bill that is being passed by members of the opposition who will unite this Hall. It seems to me that this bill will unite us in one way: that we want people who live near these enterprises. With the risk to the population in the area and the observation it will protect these people. And that funding order, although there are some doubts, because the envisaged special state budget fund that is being proposed and the special state fund for radioactive waste management is being formed on the basis of almost the same revenue. And here we're going to have to divide them in a second reading. When I think it's the right thing to do, including what these people have to pay for the electricity they live in this area, in a 30-kilometre zone of nuclear power plants, 70 percent of the level of the current tariff for the corresponding population group. And that this can only be applied at a place of permanent residence so that there can be no abuse. So I don't think that's a contradiction to the government program that's been introduced, and here we are without consideration. On the contrary, the program provides that benefits should be paid to the population that lives there. And I think it's very good that we're predicting here financing the construction of wind power plants that are already around the world, and we don't have yet. And there's a whole amount of allowances here, so I'm going to ask you to vote for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u160	The discussion is over. I am voting on a proposal by the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act on Amendments to certain laws of Ukraine on the organization of social protection issues in the areas of monitoring of uranium mining, nuclear facilities and facilities for the management of radioactive wastes, Registration No. 2174. Please vote. [[12:36:41]] For – 244 Decision taken. The draft Law on Amendments to the Code of Administrative Offences is being announced for consideration, registration number 3490. The report is by Vladimir Stepanovich Malishev.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u161	Vladimir Malyshev, Party of the Regions. Dear Alexander Vladimirovic, respected colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine, what prompted me to draft this bill? Previously, in the republics of the former Soviet Union, there was a slight theft. Until recently in Ukraine it had been 51 bracelets, three tax-free minimum income for citizens. However, in 2003 the Law “On Taxes on the Income of Individuals” was adopted, according to which the amount of damage was defined as “tax social benefits”. It accounts for 50 per cent of one minimum wage of 605 bracelets provided for in the Act for the first January of the tax year. Thus, the non-taxed minimum income for 2009 for citizens is 302 bracelets of 50 copies. That is, the act committed on 1 January of this year is considered a criminal offence if the amount of damage amounts to more than nine. Seven hundred greven50 kopecks. On 2 June 2005, the Supreme Council adopted a law amending the Code on Administrative Offences, which decriminalized the minor theft of private property. That is, petty theft has become considered a kidnapping not only of State but also of collective property, but also of personal property, I repeat. This opened up a green street to the criminal world so that the thief wouldn't sit in prison, and we could steal from the citizens a total of 907 bracelets of 49 copies. A vast array of criminal offences have moved over the administrative category and, of course, have ceased to be reflected in crime statistics, which in turn has improved the rate of disclosure. In addition, our citizens have been deprived of the possibility of compensation for the damage caused because in administrative proceedings the State is concerned only about how to punish the offender and the protection of the victim's property rights must be done on its own.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u162	Vladimir Stepanović, please finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u163	Paying all court costs and so on. First of all, this law has hurt the poor. For example, if a insured citizen steals a 900 bracelet cell phone, it is a minor inconvenience for him. And if a pensioner is kidnapped in a rural depth by property in that amount, that's a tragedy for him. This is confirmed by the numerous complaints that come before the Committee not only from ordinary citizens but from the heads of the rural district councils. And they are just. Further, think of the fact that according to the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Office of the Public Prosecutor, 400,000 denied materials were provided by the police in 2008 on citizens'allegations of theft of their personal property. And if you count latent crime, it's 800. And that's all under the existing law. Think about it, colleagues. The whole area of Chernovicka was surrounded. I therefore suggest that the position of article 51 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences should be amended as follows: you have the text. The main purpose of the Act after its adoption, article 51 of the Administrative Code, will not apply only to the theft of citizens'personal property, i.e. it will act and work primarily for the benefit of the poor. Please adopt this bill as a whole, as millions of our citizens look forward to it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u164	Have a seat, please. According to Vladimir Romanovich Moses.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u165	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! The substance of the question, as reported by the author of the bill, is the responsibility for the theft of foreign property and the Criminal Code of Ukraine and the Code of Administrative Offences. Before amending the Law on the Taxation of the Income of Individuals, the theft or theft of foreign property was small when the amount collected was not more than 51 bracelets. Since the adoption in 2003 and 2005, theft, including private property, is not a crime but an administrative offence. Thus, the author proposes to go back to the text of article 51 of the Code on Administrative Offences, which was in force until June 20005. And, respectable colleagues, really, stealing from a supportive farm in the grandmother of all ten turkeys is a fine of 170, or 500 dollars, because these turkeys don't cost more than 900 dollars. Or stealing a calf or a piggyback or something. So this law would protect the poorest rows, especially the rural population. So the committee supported the bill and asked you to support it as a basis and as a whole as a law. The main scientific and expert office shares the author's concern with this problem, but it sees that other legislative solutions are possible. However, no one offers them. Vladimir Stepanovich Malishev offered an acceptable approach. On behalf of the committee and factions, please support me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u166	Thank you, Volodymyr Romanovich. Let's sign up for a discussion. Olinik Svetoslav Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u167	Dear colleagues, I would like to fully support the bill's author, colleague Malishev, and a fellow rapporteur from the committee. The idea is absolutely right. This is an ancient debt of the Supreme Council. The idea also arose in the legislative procession of the fifth vocation. Sadly, after the lack of time, we did not get to the solution. And every MP who works today, including in rural areas in the districts, knows the relevance of the matter. If a man, a working man in a village, for example, cultivates cattle, cultivates pigs, and another Tunisian allows himself to steal them, he can do so every day. And indeed, the law is called upon to save and protect a person who is truly poor. There is an absurd situation where there is a criminal, he is a militiaman, and he is injured, but the law does not allow him to be brought to criminal responsibility. The principal expert office focuses on the fact that there are certain theoretical problems. And so they do exist because it's proposed to divide the collective form of ownership and private property in the status of protection. But at the same time, we've had consultations with representatives of different factions and we think there's a consensus that we can support a committee and we can adopt this law as a whole because there is article 3 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which recognizes that the protection of a person is a top priority of the state's activities. If there's a question in the future, because of the profile committee, we can solve issues that may be theoretical, but the historical situation requires the speedy adoption of this law, because that's just what people living in regions are yelling about, especially those that are underserved. Therefore, and on behalf of the faction “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko”, I propose to adopt this law, to support the author and on the basis of the whole as suggested by the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u168	Arjev Vladimir Igorovich
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u169	Dear colleagues, as we always do, the goal is right, the form raises the question that my colleague Olijnik has just talked about. And that's why I think we need to adopt this law, but we need to adopt it in the first reading to complete it and bring it to our minds. To be honest, on the one hand, the adoption of such a law seems appropriate and appropriate. But, you know, I was told that I stole a goose -- into prison, stole a mine -- into parliament. And that's why we need, on the other hand, to look again at the size of the things that are being proposed, because once again, we have prisons that are going to start killing people who have taken a chicken out there that's been walking on the street and that's going to lead to half of the country becoming criminals. And believe me, there's a lot of people in this room who didn't steal geese and geese and chickens, but stole huge businesses and made millions of dollars on the way. So let's at least finish this bill so we don't abuse people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u170	The discussion is over. I am voting for adoption as a basis for the first reading of the Draft Law on Amendments to the Code of Administrative Offences, registration number 3490. [[on the Qualification of Crimes and Offences]] Please vote. [[12:47:37]] For 411 Dear colleagues, the profile committee is offering to accept this project as a whole. During the discussion, the Ariev People’s Deputies objected, and there is a denial in other national deputies of the number of hands raised, and I realize that there is no need to open the debate about why it cannot be put to the vote in general, since there is a great deal of raising of hands that cannot be put to the vote. We made a decision. The bill was approved in the first reading. I'm asking the committee to work with all the national MPs who will make their proposals, as well as with the General Legal Authority, who also made some warnings about the criminal-administrative responsibilities of being prepared for the second reading. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on responsibility for illegal planting or growing sleeping poppy or cannabis]] Registration number 1267. The report is Yuri Romanovich Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u171	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. Bill 1267 deals with settling the responsibility for illegal crops and the cultivation of poppy and cannabis, sleeping poppy and cannabis. What was the need for the adoption of such a law? The thing is, personally, like my colleagues in the faction of the Party of the Regions, we are systematically working with certain professional environments. This law is based on the practice of applying the two provisions of the Administrative Code and the Criminal Code. The point is that the distribution in these articles, in particular 106 parts of the second Administrative and 310 articles of the Criminal Code, is identical: illegal soaping or growing sleeping poppy or cannabis brings administrative responsibility and the same in the Criminal Code is a criminal responsibility. There are no additional criteria for determining where the limits of administrative wrongdoing, misconduct, and where criminal crime are. And the judges approach us accordingly, especially me, saying: “Dear MPs, settle, give us a mechanism so that we can distinguish where the administrative crime is and where the criminal crime is.” What do we offer? On the other hand, on the basis of the suggestions made by the judges. Leave the fines behind administrative offences, and the restrictions of will or, let's say, arrest is criminal. There is a discussion. Given that we've set these criteria, first of all, how many plants there must be and what the responsibility will be. Up to a hundred plants are administrative responsibility, 100-500 are criminal.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u172	Finish up, please, Yuri Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u173	And that's how we make decisions. If this is administrative responsibility, we propose to increase the fine to 100 untaxed minimums. Here you can discuss, you can increase, you can reduce, depending on what kind of danger is now in crisis, in a state of complete disorder, when people are broken down, that's exactly what this crime is. Or the arrest, the forfeiture, we leave it the way it was, and it's the Criminal Code. Dear colleagues, in order to have a discussion on the appropriateness of punishment, I propose that I approve as prepared by the draft decision a first-reading committee, discuss and then approve the second. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u174	Thank you, Yuri Romanovich. According to the report: Malishev Vladimir Stepanovic. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u175	Thank you, Alexander Vladimirovich. The bill has been considered on our committee. They are invited to amend the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences, the Criminal Code with a view to resolving the liability for drug trafficking, in particular for illicit crops or the cultivation of sleeping poppy or cannabis. The adoption of the law would avoid disagreement in the definition of illegal crops or the cultivation of sleeping poppy in accordance with the Criminal Code and the Code of Administrative Offences. We support this bill in its first reading, as does its Chief Scientific and Expert Office. Please support the Committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u176	Thank you. Have a seat. Let's sign up for a discussion. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u177	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear National Deputies! Making changes to criminal matters. To the Criminal Code, to the Code of Administrative Offences is a very delicate mechanism. We have considered the previous law. And we allowed it and we could let it happen that, actually, for stealing this pen, it was necessary to violate a criminal case, investigate and put someone in jail, or not put them in jail. It's me before I know how important it is to understand what the consequences of cancelling there or not. And that's to say that the normal limit has to be. Because what the Ministry of Internal Affairs doesn't do today is stop the MPs, and that's not what the Attorney General does when they steal up to 900 dollars, that's insane! Because for 900 dollars, you can take out half the farm today. But this is where our colleague, Yuri Miroshnichenko, is now in the project, and I certainly have a lot of respect for counting the number of plants. Up to a hundred plants have been counted – administrative responsibility, a hundred plants – so criminal responsibility. Or are we going to measure after the growth of these plants? How long do they take, to the meter, to the meter, and so on? Obviously not, obviously, this is not exactly the criteria that are needed. I really like the efforts of Miroshnichenko to separate these things. But believe me, as recorded in the Criminal Code, it says: “Illicit sowing or the cultivation of sleeping poppy or cannabis, ” that is to say, should be envisaged. But the problem is that it is also recorded in the Administrative Code. And we have to decide which way to go. In order to start moving at all, let's take it from the first reading. But once again it says that counting, it's completely stupid to count plants.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u178	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u179	I'll propose. So I'm asking, let's take it in the first reading, and then we'll suggest a way out to start moving in that direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u180	Pisarenko Valeriy Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u181	Dear colleagues, first of all, wanted to thank the author of the bill that he had managed to resolve such a complex area. Secondly, of course, we need to approach criminal law reform more systematically. Today, the question of decriminalization of the Criminal Code is raised. And to some extent we can say that we need to work out this bill because I fully agree with the conclusion of the Scientific and Experimental Authority, that this kind of punishment as a fine doesn't have to be thrown out of the Criminal Code and it needs to be, because we leave only a restriction on freedom for people. What is more, of course, it is necessary to take a more careful look at the penalties, for today the Administrative Code may contain a sanction that exceeds the criminal code. So as a whole, I think we need to support the drafter. In addition, it may be necessary to set up a working group in Parliament to deal seriously with the decriminalization of the Criminal Code. Because today we have the only problem: that the Criminal Code does not correspond to reality and very many crimes for which people are responsible then lead to limitations on rights, restrictions on freedom of movement. I don't think that's true. And I hope that all the deputies will come to this in a more working environment without blocking Parliament, and only today's work can improve our legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u182	The discussion is over. I am voting on the proposal of a committee to approve the first reading of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on liability for illegal planting or the cultivation of sleeping poppy or cannabis. Registration number 1267. Please vote. [[12:58:15.]] For 355 Decision taken. A draft Law on the Education of Persons in Need of Physical and Mental Development, registration number 1270, has been announced for consideration. [[special education]] The report is Katherine Semenovna Samojlik.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u183	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you know that as a result of the complexity of environmental, socio-economic conditions and not only theirs, but also political ones, the number of people with disabilities has increased over the past 10 years, and it's almost 3 million people, more than 5 percent of the total population. Of these, of course, a large number are children who need education either in preschool institutions or in general secondary education. What does the bill propose? What I'm saying right now is that the bill began to be developed in 2001. Then he was not accepted in 2004. A colleague of Sharov and Bauer also introduced the bill, and we accepted it in the first reading. Before the second reading, changes were made to all the Ukrainian national deputies. We set up a working group where we included the Ministry of Health and the branches of the academy and the practitioners and so forth. And we've already worked out the law for the second reading. But what happened was, sadly, that the work had been completed by the last cadence in time, and that law was not adopted in the second reading. And now the law that you're asked to consider in the first reading is practically the editor of the second reading, but it's accepted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine for a new convening. This law is really necessary. We have individual, separate bills, but we don't have what we might call a general basic law on special education. And that's why, of course, we proposed this bill. But what I'm saying right now is that it needs to be accepted and it has to be time-bound, because it's been years.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u184	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u185	And given the real, very complex crisis situation, I would immediately suggest that if we adopt a bill to change the terms, by putting them away for almost two years, because they need additional and financial costs, and preparation of personnel, and some even reform in the special education system, and in the general education system, because it's going to be separate classes of correction, it's going to be individual work, and so on. I would ask you to accept it in the first reading, considering that, despite the fact that the Ministry of Education and Science is basic -- education and science for adoption in the first reading, and as the law of Ukraine, also the Ministry of Youth and Family, but other ministries and scientific and scientific departments have observations. Sometimes they wear these terms -- we have to send them and stuff. And so I would ask you to adopt this bill, which is very much needed by almost three million people in Ukraine, in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u186	Thank you, Catherine Seed. Let's sign up for a discussion. Shevchuk Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u187	Thank you. Shevchuk, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. Of course, our MP Corps is likely to vote for the idea of this bill, since no one can be indifferent to the needs of young people who have some physical or mental health problems. I would not want to dwell on such a moral aspect but would like to express myself financially. As some say, during times of crisis, you should not spend money. In fact, there's going to be some extra costs for individual classes, for special education, for individual work, for Internet programs that will teach these kids. But there are indirect gains after this bill is passed -- it's a more complete social adaptation, it's labour training, and that means reducing the disability of such people, which means releasing their parents from care, which also has a significant positive impact on our state. Therefore, in summary: surely, the “Julia Timoshenko Block” supports this bill, we believe that it needs to be adopted, improved. And we will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u188	Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u189	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear colleagues, it is a simple and perfect truth that the Constitution gives all citizens the right to education and to development according to this person’s capabilities. I think it's that axiom that doesn't need any criteria of humanity, morality, even discussion. More importantly, today than ever before, the question of people's full integration is -- by the way, they don't like to be called disabled, and that's what they do -- people with limited capabilities, only limited to full society. And that's why my comments aren't about removing and replacing something. I'd think that, after all, with respect for the Science and Experimental Authority, but in this case, it's not his opinion that we should send this bill for further work, as they say. We can take it as a basis today, and some things, including the author of the legislative initiative, I would like to ask that when preparing for the second reading be taken into account. In particular, these children are often sick, often in treatment-prevention facilities. And maybe if you set a standard: if you have more than 21 days, that is to say, the education system keeps them going on, that is, predicting the possibility in an individual order of education for them during this wave, when they're in a hospital facility. They're not a year old, they're 21 years old, that's the first moment. The second moment, apparently, when it comes to the possibility of individual learning from a place of residence, could be foreseen for a list of the diseases that permit it. There may be a conflict here when it's just the parents.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u190	Complete, please, Oleg Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u191	No will insist only that they were at home when, in principle, they could visit. I'd like to ask for those two moments. I have something else, I can't take any more time, I can't use it to prepare it for the second reading as a basis for the first reading. Thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u192	Ladies and gentlemen, we have a somewhat volatile situation right now, since we're working on a reduced procedure, we have a co-reporter from the committee missing. You saw that the report was unforeseeable. But there's a committee chairman who's asking to be allowed to speak to him about this bill. Since I do not have such powers under the Rules alone, I would like to ask you: Will there be any objection to giving the floor to the head of a committee of profile in connection with the absence of a reporter to express his point of view? [[B in m in s a l in]] No objections? There's no objection. Please, Deputy Suskevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u193	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich, thank you, dear colleagues, and thank you, Your Honor, for joining us in this work. But, your honorary colleagues, the honourable drafter of the bill and the education committee, I want to say that I have a very difficult feeling about this bill. The fact is that we have not yet begun the real process of providing disability, the right of people with disabilities to education. But really, really this bill, it's kind of controversial and problematic. The problem is that it often does not comply with the existing legislation on education, which is problematic in the title of the bill. Because today, people with disabilities do not need special education. Today, people with disabilities simply need education. The bill states, for example, unimpeded conditions of access are called “special conditions”. We cannot talk about special conditions today; today the school should be accessible, as should other educational institutions, to disabled Ukrainians and children with disabilities. I would like to remind you that we have signed the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which today requires us to comply with our legislation with those world-renowned standards relating to the accessibility of the right to education of persons with disabilities and children with disabilities. What I'm saying is that today, completely in the bill, there are no issues related to pre-school education, but today, there is a very large number of people with disabilities who need to be organized and addressed. I could make a large list of issues that are problematic in the bill today, but speaking in terms of the terminology of one of our colleagues who said today that we should start moving, I think we should support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u194	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u195	This bill is worth supporting in the first reading. The only request, Alexander Volodymyrovich, to you personally, is that there should be two committees on this bill: that committee that deals with disabled people and that committee that does education, because it does work for the second reading. It's very serious work. Consider the legal conclusions. Science-expert management, they talk about it, too. So I am asked to support this law in the first reading and to work very seriously on the second reading, including the title of the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u196	Thank you. Peter Cibenko, a faction of Communists, still has the right.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u197	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! The first thing I want to do is thank my colleague Catherine Seminovny for introducing this bill. The fact that she named a number of bills that were before but did not come into being as laws shows that there is a real problem, and the MPs are trying to solve it. We have to say that we really need to create a system for people who have a separate life situation with regard to education. It's very important. You can make warnings, you can make comments about something not being taken into account, but you really need to move in that direction. And I would like to use the presence of a representative of the Ministry of Education here to make one comment at the address of this ministry. The point is that when we looked at bills in the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, including complex bills that dealt with the lives and activities of people with disabilities and that dealt with educational problems, unfortunately, we often made comments, requests to the Ministry of Education and Science to start this process of creating an education system for these people, because unfortunately, the Ministry of Education and Science is very often at the side of these problems. As an example, I can point out that I have had to take part repeatedly in conferences held by the University of Ukraine, where representatives of various departments that have a bearing on people with disabilities have been invited, representatives of the public organizations of persons with disabilities, the Social Protection Fund, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, and very often there were no representatives of the Ministry of Education. That's too bad. And that's why the faction of the Company of Ukraine supports this document and needs to move in that direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u198	Thank you Tomenko Mikola Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u199	Dear colleagues, I'm a few thesets in the course of the discussion. I'd like to support Valery Suskevitch here. Yuri Carmazin and I discussed that we had strategically matured to realize that we had a quality, affordable education that should be available to all. We cannot do that we have schools for the healthy and some special schools for the disabled. Well, that's insane. We are a European country. So some special system to invent, special teachers, I'm sorry, a special department of the Ministry for half a billion dollars to bet now, isn't that the right way? I mean, we have to act in such a way that those children who go to institutions know that the state gives them the same education and then provides them with higher education and work on equal terms. I've recently been to a special facility in Ternopolis where, thank God, the district council thinks about such a facility and helps to communicate with teachers who really say that the main task is to ensure the quality of education for these children. So I support the idea, too, but I'm sure we should do it this way. This should not be a special law, it should be a chapter in the Education Act, because these are the only educational standards. In this chapter about this direction to predict how we prepare a professional teacher for such a category, because we need to be able to communicate with children like us, and we are helping these institutions today. And to create special centres, special departments of the Ministry, I think it's pointless. Not because we're economics, but because that's certain, I think I'm being disrespectful to these people. So I support the idea, but I think that between the first and second readings, really, at least, three committees: health care for pensioners, education, - and should work for ministries and accept it as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u200	Thank you. The discussion is over. Dear colleagues, I would like to say a few words about this, because Mikola Volodymyrovich, rightly said that we should provide a normal level of education for all, but we should not forget that there is a problem with certain defects and for blind people to learn together and with the seeing is difficult, just like those who don't listen, can't speak. So everything has to be differentiated, and so it's really going to be a request to the profiling committees to look closely at the possibilities of improving this project so that all Ukrainian citizens have access to quality education. I'm voting on the adoption of the draft Education Act for people who need to correct physical and mental development. Registration number 1270. Please be supportive. [[13:15:36]] For 408 Decision taken. The draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Aid to Families with Children, Registration No. 1043-2, is being announced for consideration. The report is by Oleg Alexandrovich Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u201	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! The conduct of any policy that directly affects the interests of citizens, especially demographic policy, requires, among other things, the public authorities not only to carry out related measures in a systematic way, but also to justify them in a more understandable form for the majority of the population. Yes, the substantial increase in payments made in April 2008 at the birth of a child had a well - founded goal — an increase in birth. But because of the lack of systemivity in the approach, the goal was not finally achieved, although really much was done in this direction. And, above all, because of repeated changes and both the size and order of payments, both at the level of the laws and at the level of the regulations. What is proposed? My bill, which I'm the author of, suggests that I split the birth aid into two components. It used to be called "born" in two terms, which would be more relevant to reality and would not mislead parents. That is, directly to help with the birth, which was paid at one time and to help raise, which would be paid over the course of a year or three, is differentiated from the number of children in the family, without reducing the level of pay available for today. Moreover, one of the determining factors in the rule of law should also be the appropriate socio-economic conditions. So this is about taking into account inflationary processes that require a constant change in living standards. So it's appropriate, in our view, to apply the amount of payments in the law, not in the size of the absolute bracelet, but in the indexes that are constantly being indexed. And in our view, the adoption of this law will allow this aid to be transformed into a real factor in demographic politics, that is, a prerequisite for a full implementation.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u202	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u203	It will create conditions for a full-fledged demographic policy that will not only stimulate birth but also more – to ensure that society is fully-fledged, and not just born. Please accept this bill in the first reading. Those points that will be expressed will be taken into account when preparing for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u204	Thank you, Oleg Alexanderovich. Catherine Eugene Lukyanova, co - report.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u205	Dear colleagues, the committee supports the position to unify the procedure for determining the size of the child's birth by using the minimum cost of living for children under six years of age. The bill is supported by the Committees on Legal Policy, Health, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority. However, it is necessary to note the following minimum of 557 bracelets for children under six years of age. The results of the calculations show that if a one-time payment, according to the bill, of birth aid increases compared to the amount that is being paid now, the amount paid by equal parts of the bill is decreasing. The amount of general assistance paid at the birth of the first and third children is also declining, so that, in accordance with article 22 of the Ukrainian Constitution, the existing rights of citizens are not narrowed down. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that the Committee on Budget Affairs has decided that the bill is one that has an impact on the spending of the budget by increasing it and can be adopted on condition that its standards enter into force not earlier than 1 January 2010. The Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport, and Tourism decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a bill as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u206	Let's sign up for a discussion, please. People's MP Mokchan.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u207	Thank you, Alexander. Dear colleagues, this bill is certainly part of the list of laws that apply to our future. And I realized that, despite all the warnings made by the Expert Administration of ours, I think it's appropriate to support it today, and the Julia Timoshenko faction will support this bill, because it belongs to the first-in-commands to be adopted today, despite all the economic problems in our country, it's about the children, it's about protecting the children -- especially tomorrow's bill, and here everything needs to be given, as they say, the last bit of salt in order for us to think about what tomorrow's generation will be healthy, it's going to be secure and guaranteed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u208	Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u209	Dear colleagues, Bill 1043-2 is submitted by the Ukrainian authorities as representative of the ruling coalition. This gives me some hope that this bill will be adopted and will work. And you could scream "Uh-oh!" and applaud and be very happy about it. If you don't have such an interesting question, dear colleagues, you know where the money is coming from and where the money came from after Maidan on the the thesis proclaimed by Yushchenko thesis: “Couple, multiply, take the money, enjoy.” Social insurance fund at temporary loss of employment, birth and burial Then these 700 million dollars almost buried this fund, and now it's barely living, but that's not what I'm talking about. I'm both hands for this law to work and I'm going to vote for it, but I want to tell you about something else, when we end up in this session room, we stop seeing each other, mention EESU and other names, and start talking about what we need. Dear colleagues, today's decline in the total volume of industrial production makes it impossible to account for what we need for social funds and the cost. I'm not talking about the Pension Fund. And one more thing. It is possible to get available medical care for our children. Is she like that? You'll see what's amazing about Mayor Kiev. What are some of the benefits of a child’s illness?Oh, my God! With one hand he seems to give money to the poor, and with the other hand he collects it. And one more thing. I'd like to read you a number, recently I've seen it, a month's food. A child needs a month. 40 pounds [45 kg] of meat, 13 kg [13 kg] of fish I want to remind you that in 1941 the prisoners of war were given two kilograms [2 kg] of meat. According to the subsistence minimum in Ukraine, it is 300 grams of meat per month. Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u210	Finish up. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u211	Either we're going to approach these social protection issues in a complex way, or I'm very sorry to say it, but today the pierra around the crisis, the size of the pyar around the crisis exceeds our efforts to cope with the crisis and our potential is powerful where it's going? Some kind of whistle. Let's ask the government, let's let the president put in a set of drafts to prevent a crisis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u212	Thank you. The discussion is over. Dear colleagues, Vladimir Romanovich, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to ask the session room if we need to listen to a representative of the Cabinet of Ministers. Is there such a need? I know there's no cut-off procedure. If there are no objections to national MPs, then I invite you to speak to the Deputy Minister. [[B in m in s a l in]] What? You deny it. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to give my word to the Cabinet of Ministers. Please, we're on our way. [[13:25:20]] For 133 The decision is not taken. I am voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Aid to Families with Children. [[on birth and child-rearing payments]] [[Registration number 1043/2]] I'd like to make a statement. [[13:25:53]] For 413 Decision taken. A draft Ordinance on State Support for Sanitary Hospitals, which treat and rehabilitate persons with disabilities, is being announced. [[Registration number 3324]] Reports: Suškevitch Valeriy Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u213	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, your opinion is on a proposal for a Supreme Council regulation on measures to provide State support to sanatoriums where disabled people are being cured. It is worth noting that this ruling came out of the actual authorship of Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvin, who proposed a corresponding Ordinance on State Support for the specialized spinal sanatorium Burdenka in Crimea. Thanks to both Volodymyr Mikhailovich Litvin and the Committee of Profiles for Pensioners, Veterans, Disabled Persons, a decision was born that deals more and more systematically with issues related to spinal disabilities and other invalids who need sanatorium support. I want to say that the first step in this decision is to accelerate what wasn't done in 2003: speed up the development and adoption of the State Sanatorium Development Programme project. And it is now proposed that we consider and accept it by March 1st and submit it for consideration and approval by the Supreme Council. In addition, attention is being paid to the decision that the main two professional sanatoriums: Burdenka Sanatorium, “Slav” Janski, they belong to the “Scrooge of Health”. So real financial support and state support for these sanitariums has a specific option. And it can only be implemented in such a way that an appropriate amount of travel is purchased. In doing so, this decision addresses again systematically the question of how to deal with the state, together with the professions, with a system of attention and support for sanatoriums that relate to the rehabilitation and support of disabled people in the choice of belonging to these sanatoriums to the unions. This question is suggested to be considered accordingly in the determination and also indicated.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u214	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u215	Lines to ensure a systematic solution to this issue. Moreover, unfortunately, the procedure, the current procedure for purchasing travel, is designed in such a way that, in fact, the first quarter of the sanatoriums where they need the help of disabled people, they're simplifying because there's a procurement procedure going on. It's going to be two-and-a-half months. Actually, sanitariums are just standing there. The decree stipulates that there should be a specially designed mechanism in such a way that, after all, the sanatoriums that are needed by the disabled in Ukraine, especially by the spinal patients who are in critical condition today, should be decided so that it is simplified. And it's being properly worked out by this regulation. So it's extremely relevant this year, especially. Well, the last thing I want to say is that the decree stipulated the dates that were last year. Therefore, in paragraph 4 of the project, the final date should be set — instead of 1 January 2009 — until 1 April 2009. Similarly, in paragraph 3 of the project, which obliges the government to entrust the Ministry of Economics and the Ministry of Labour with a simplified travel mechanism, the date today is proposed by March 1, 2009. And last but not least, dear colleagues. I want to look in the context of what's touching the spinal cord. There's a 15th hospital in the Donetsk region. I want to go to the Health Ministry and the Donetsk Observatories, the only hospital for spinal patients in Ukraine that will provide professional and professional care for spinal patients. Today, the situation that has been halted by calls has stopped the access of disabled Ukrainians from other areas to the hospital. I would like to ask the Ministry of Health and the Donetsk authorities to resolve this matter immediately. This is about the lives of people who sometimes die of latrines in order to avoid temporary treatment in this hospital. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u216	== sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u217	Honourable National Deputies of Ukraine, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Health at its meeting, reviewed draft Decree 3324, submitted by the National Deputies Suškević, Gerasimczuk and Mistpan, aimed at providing state support for sanatoriums where disabled people are being rehabilitated. In support of the legislative initiative of the national MPs as a whole, the committee draws attention to the following. In addition to the fact that sanatoriums in Ukraine are located in the areas of administration of various ministries and departments, today they also have different forms of ownership. In particular, the sanatoriums indicated in the draft decrees, namely the spinal sanatoriums of the name Burdenka and “Slovakia”, are in the possession of the Federation of Professional Associations of Ukraine, namely in the Closed Shareholder Company “Ukrproszdravnica”. Until the legal definition of the successors of the property of the federal social organizations of the USSR and the legislative settlement of matters relating to the constitutional right of ownership of the property, the committee considers it appropriate. By the way, I wanted to draw the attention of the people's deputies to the fact that this is a very important property issue in 1994, as recorded by the relevant Supreme Council ruling, and until today it has not been finally resolved. First, we propose to extend the moratorium provided for by the Ukrainian Act on the Moratorium on the alienation of property in the Federation of Trades. Set up a list of sanatoriums and facilities that are subject to ban and alienation. It's different. Speeding up the development of state social standards and standards defined by the Ukrainian Act on State Social Standards and State Social Guarantees, which are very important for the sanatorium and smoking sector, let alone other rules for reviewing the implementation of regulations in the content of the regulation. These are the main proposals that our committee proposes to make to the draft decision. In view of the foregoing, the Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the draft decree on the basis of the first reading. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u218	Let's sign up for a discussion. People's MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u219	Paul Mokchan, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. The honourable deputy, the presiding officer, of the arguments cited by the rapporteurs, is most appealing to me that we can in this way solve the problem that has been going on for a long time, when those institutions that were built back in the Soviet era were gradually failing to make proper use of it. And what's being offered to buy travel by the state just as this rule is now applied to Artek, I think it's a very smart way out, but I don't see the possibilities of government if I'm convinced that we could build a whole network around Sak. I think we need to separate one topic from another here and no doubt support it, because once again, I'm stressing that we're talking about children, we're talking about when parents give away the last to make children healthy, so that they're the ones who take over our estaphet and think about what Ukraine's going to be like. How we invest in children depends on tomorrow’s Ukraine. That's why I think he needs to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u220	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u221	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. Ladies and gentlemen, given that we need to move fast, and this question does not require us to move further away from it, we have already lost one month. I think we should accept the proposals that are now being made by the chairman of the Suškević Committee, given that the text changes the dates that are written here. Of course, it's written here in paragraph three, where the government's mandate -- by October 30, 2008, it's over, so we can put it -- by March 1st, it's a date that can still be reached. This is also in paragraph 4 before March 1st, where, together with the Federation of Trades, but in my opinion, the most important thing is that we anticipate additional revenue from the State Budget and continue to be entrusted to the Ministry of Finance and the Committee on Budget Affairs with additional allocations of funds, provided for funds for these purposes. I'd like to say from this high rostrum right now to those who sow panic in the state. When there is a crisis, we should not rejoice. And what I want to say to them is, I was interested in the Pension Fund: in January-month, the only month that Ukraine had in 17 years in economic war, plus 22 percent in coming! It's me for those who shouted that the Pension Fund is zero and so forth from this rostrum. I don't want to name names so there isn't a replica right now. But you don't have to sow panicky moods! We need to put the people on the contrary in order to overcome these problems that are today, and to help both governments and coalitions, and to help those who are most struggling to survive. The hardest thing for people with disabilities today is pensioners. And we're going to turn them on now. And I ask you, in general, to accept this decision with the additions that I have given. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u222	The discussion is over. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear Peter Stepanovich, the point is that the reduced procedure foresees: two – "for", two – "against". Only when considered, under full procedure. One representative comes from the faction. If it is “pro” it is recorded if “against” is recorded. “ Against” was not registered. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the proposal of a professional committee for adoption on the basis of a draft decree on measures to provide State support to sanatoriums that treat and rehabilitate persons with disabilities. Registration number 3324. Please vote. [[13:38:16]] For 409 Dear colleagues, during the discussion a proposal was made for acceptance as a whole. Is there any objection to the adoption of this decree as a whole? There's a denial, isn't there? There's a denial. People's deputy Karpuk. Dear colleagues, if there is a denial of the national MPs of Ukraine, I do not have the right to vote in general. If you have any objection, please write it down. National Deputy Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u223	Dear National Deputies! Yuri Carmazin. I'm just referring to those who have no objection. And what I'm saying is, let's vote without objection, there's nothing here. We need to help those who are having a hard time today. I'm addressing all the national MPs: let's make the changes you want to make then, but this decision has to work, given that next week we don't have a job here, not in plenary mode, which means we won't be able to make this decision for at least a week, which means the government won't see it in its expenses. Do you understand? That is why we must now take this decision as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u224	Silent Pavel Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u225	Thank you. I ask you to pass the word to Valery Suškević.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u226	Valeriy Suškevitch, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u227	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is one specific thing about this determination. It's about what money is, the question is to conduct a tender procedure. It'll be the first quarter. Travels to the sanatorium do not get disabled, sanatoriums do, and disabled people need travel. I have a request for us to vote now. Then it will simplify the procedure for the purchase of travel and disabled persons to go to the sanatorium at the beginning of the year, not in the second quarter, why I am asking you to take this decision as a whole right now. And then there's the rest. [[B in m in s a l in]] What question?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u228	Dear colleagues. I'd like to do it this way.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u229	But there are no land issues. I'm asking you to support me as a whole. Because, in reality, the disabled will receive travel. Can I have your back, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u230	Dear colleagues, so that we do not deliberately delay the approval process, I have a request: proposals for a decision that we can now put to the vote and determine in the adoption room as a whole. Let's not delay the process. Anyone has no suggestions, please don't take up time. Pisarenko Valeriy Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u231	Suskevich. Suškeviću once again.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u232	Thank you. Alexander Volodymyrovich, I ask you to put a vote in the ruling there is no position that is problematic on another issue. The language goes today, which is the key to the development of the program -- once, and the second -- first, priority, really long today, for a week, for two, really disabled people don't get these purchases. I'm asking you to put it to a vote, if the hall is opposed to accepting it as a whole, then let's not take it. But please, language goes, once again, a simplified procedure for buying travel tickets for people with disabilities who can't go to sanatorium today. There's money, and the procedure's been going on. You know, the tender procedure is what. Therefore, it is a request to support in general that we actually provide for the disabled at the beginning of the year. We've been talking about this all last year. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u233	Well, it turns out that only the people’s deputy, Karpuk Vladimir Georgievovich, has a word for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u234	Dear colleagues, really, it's a good idea and on the committee I also supported Valery Mikhailovich Suškevitch, but together with that, let's think about it, it'll be another declaration. Because the procedure involves speeding up the development of the program, the state health-care programme, by 1 March. This program is really working, but by March 1st, it's impossible to do it. To predict an increase in the amount of allocations for sanatorium treatment. Of the 3 million people with disabilities registered in Ukraine, 130-150,000 are on the line each year, who are expected to receive these travels year after year, only having to walk again. The compensation provided for unused travel is also quite modest. And there's a lot of problems, let's say it's on property issues, so it's between the unions and. This one. This program will not be executed. Come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u235	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u236	Let's make a decision on the accelerated consideration, on short notice, but let's take these proposals into account. I think there'll be a number of suggestions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u237	The proposal concerns not voting in general at this time, but voting in favour of an accelerated re-examination. I'm putting the people's deputy Karpuk to a vote. Please be determined. [[13:44:05]] For 279 Decision taken. I also want to say that there are several dates that apply to October 30th last year, January 1st, 2009. I mean, it's definitely going to have to be brought into line. So this proposal was quite correct. Let us turn to the consideration of the issues, the re-examination of laws that we have adopted, with the comments and suggestions of the President of Ukraine. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on the Prevention of the Negative Effects of the Impact of the World Financial Crisis on the Development of an Agro-Industrious Complex, with comments by the President of Ukraine, is under review. Reported by President Fedorovich of Ukraine, Minister of Agarinian Politics.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u238	Honourable Alexandre Volodymyrovich, distinguished National Deputies, adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 23 December last year, the Act of Ukraine “To amend certain laws of Ukraine to prevent the negative effects of the global financial crisis on the development of an agri-industrial complex” returned by the President of Ukraine with the following observations. First. The President of Ukraine proposes to supplement section 2 of paragraph 1 above by establishing that the rules of the Ukrainian Law “On transactions in foreign economic commodities” do not extend to goods which fall within the definition of the first to twenty-fourth groups in the Ukrainian Classification of Goods of External Economic Activity. That is, the requirements of this law should apply only to the agrarian sphere. And article 1 of chapter 1 of the law is to be deleted. The other one. It is also proposed to delete section 2, paragraph 3, of the budget loan to the Agrarian Fund for the purchase of surplus sunflower in the internal market of 1.2 billion dollars, as this rule does not comply with the requirements of the Budget Code for the determination of the source of additional revenue for the increase of such expenditure. In addition, this rule has lost its relevance because the 2008 financial year has ended. Third. It is proposed that paragraph 2 of article 2 of section 1 of the law on the arrangements for banks to secure debt for agricultural credits, ban banks from re-evaluation of the cost of the mortgage and the order of re-financing by the National Bank of Ukraine of commercial banks, as such changes do not comply with the rules of the Constitution and a number of existing laws of Ukraine. Four. The President of Ukraine also proposes to delete article 2, paragraph 3, of section 1, of the law in order to preserve the payment of subsidies for the cultivation of certain animal species and birds, since this will have a discriminatory approach to individual owners and will make their activities worse. Fifth. It is proposed that article 3, paragraph 2, of chapter 1, of the Law banning the sale of agricultural land be deleted because it is already regulated in the Land Code, which defines the land market.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u239	Please finish Igor Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u240	Agricultural importance is possible only after the adoption of a number of laws governing land relations during the sale of land. It should be noted that these Presidential proposals are based on expert conclusions from ministries and departments, the National Bank and supported by the Cabinet of Ministers. At the same time, when the above rules are removed, the law is important and relevant because it addresses a number of other important problems in agri-industrial activities. First, it settles and continues without limitation at the time the mechanisms are in place to pay subsidies to agricultural producers from VAT accrued for finished production through processing enterprises. This is a very important norm, especially in the face of a financial crisis. It continues indefinitely during the period of operation of the fixed agricultural tax. The issue of banning the import of donor raw materials for all agricultural products is being addressed. Legislation provides for the introduction of certain government standards for production. The problem of paying the agrarian fund for the maintenance of the food reserve grain, etc., is settled. Asking for support and adoption as a law that takes into account the proposals of the President of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u241	Thank you, Yuri Fedorovich. Please, Sergey Anatolyovich Teryohin, from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u242	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Dear colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council on Tax Customs Policy at its meeting on 15 January 2008 reviewed the proposals made by the President of Ukraine for this law in 2009, I apologize. In all, there are four proposals that contain five novels to this law, most of which suggest that some of its standards be excluded and that they be added to one norm. The committee supported all the President's proposals and recommended that the Supreme Council support this law in general, taking into account the President's proposals. If the Supreme Council agrees to support all the President’s proposals, then, unfortunately, the veto was, between us, unprepared and the President forgot about the deletion of section I, section 3, paragraph 3, which refers to the procedure for the refinancing of commercial banks by the National Bank for Disruptment or Disruption or Prolongation of Credits to the Agricultural Sector. If we exclude, we agree with the President's proposals, we also need to exclude paragraph four of chapter two, which sets out the rules for the Cabinet of Ministers to analyse the credits granted to farmers. However, I can say that the committee did not vote unanimously, and a decision was taken to overcome the veto, for, more faithfully, the adoption of presidential rights. I personally did not vote in favour of such a proposal, and I propose, on my behalf as a national deputy, that we consider the purpose of overcoming the veto at the third position of the President of Ukraine on the granting of a schedule, prolangia, loans to farmers using the refinancing of the National Bank. This is in full harmony with the rules applied today in the world. And if we support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u243	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u244	If we overcome the veto after the President's third proposal, and we accept the rest, the President has to sign this law, and for agrarians, there will be a real mechanism to preserve their circulation costs of obtaining additional credit. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u245	Dear colleagues! In accordance with the procedure, we must now consider all the proposals made by the President of Ukraine, taking into account the decisions made by the committee of profile. I'm voting on the President of Ukraine's first proposal. Please be sure.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u246	The committee's offering to support it. [[13:51:58]] For 353 The President's proposal is supported. The president's second suggestion is that the third article in chapter two, one, should be deleted.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u247	The committee supports.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u248	I'd like to make a statement. [[13:52:25]] For 349 Decision taken. President of Ukraine's third proposal. The second paragraph in article 3 of the first law is proposed to be deleted.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u249	Although the committee supported this proposal by the President, because of the fact that without this standard of refunding commercial banks on agrarian loans, this law practically means nothing but the introduction of additional meat and milk benefits. So again, on my behalf, I would ask you not to support the President's proposal and overcome the veto in this position.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u250	I'm betting on the President's vote under number three, which I just heard, please be sure to make a statement. [[13:53:26]] For-24 The President's proposal is not supported. The fourth proposal of the President of Ukraine, chapter two, to supplement paragraph 1.1. of this content: to establish that the rules of the Ukrainian Law on the work of donor raw materials in external economic relations do not extend to goods that fall within the definition of the first and twenty-fourth groups. I'm betting on the vote on the fourth proposal of the President of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u251	Please be supportive. [[13:54:11]] For 359 The decision is supported. I am betting on the President’s fifth proposal, paragraph 3 of section 2 of the Law is proposed to be deleted.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u252	We offer to support it. [[13:54:38]] For 343 Decision taken. So we've got one exception, all of the President's proposals. We have a new version of the law that goes like this. I ask you to vote now.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u253	One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u254	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u255	If we now give more than three hundred votes, then the President of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u256	Sergey Anatolyevich, let us leave the clarifications that apply to the procedures for those who are to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u257	Well, then we fell back into the lens, because it's going to be vetoed again.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u258	Dear colleagues, we have supported four out of five proposals by the President of Ukraine, and we have received a new law edition. I am now asking to vote in full support of the new law, taking into account the four new positions that we have taken into account, the remarks made by the President of Ukraine. Please make up your mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u259	Yes, please. [[13:56:02]] For 399
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u260	Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u261	We had to get over the veto.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u262	The law was passed in a new order and in general. I hope that we will have an appropriate response by the President of Ukraine to the unity of the Ukrainian Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u263	For reasons of vote, please sign up. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u264	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense. Ladies and gentlemen, for the first time, we have shown normal cooperation. It would be desirable for us to hear or support the President now, because, as we've heard from Terhochin, we're going to have no refund on the agricultural sector. And in general, I suggest to our President that we think about one question about how much more of Ukraine's gold reserves can work for the economy of other countries, maybe let's bring them back here, because they're under two, below three percent, and let them work for agriculture, for the real economy, and let them work under the credits, and we'll fund ourselves, not depend on ourselves, and ask someone to do it to us. So I have this proposal for all the people's deputies, so let's think about it, and let's face it, the President's open offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u265	Schmel’s Light, Alexander’s.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u266	Please, Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u267	Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u268	Thank you. Martinuk is a faction of Communists. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! I want to thank all those who have not supported the President's third amendment and I would like to remind you once again what was going on here. It's like it's very humane and good that you don't have to ban it, set it up. Continue the moratorium on the sale of agricultural land because they are supposedly regulated in other laws. Can oil be spoiled? I mean, what difference does it make? They just wanted to stretch what people would forget about what is a moratorium, so that the land would be traded to the left and to the right. I sincerely thank the entire MP Corps, who supported the offer of the Communists and left this article in today's bill that we're sending to the President.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u269	Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u270	I'd like a word with Victor Andrievich Slauti.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u271	Please, Victor Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u272	Dear colleagues, thank you, too, for supporting this bill. This is the first tray for the agrarian sector. So let me remind you that this spring field work started this year, in 2009, Crimea planted 5,000 hectares. I think the representative of the President is a very smart man, Mr. Schlapak, I think this law should be signed by the President and done more quickly.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u273	Catherine Timofievna Vashchuk
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u274	Dear colleagues, we really did a good job that we supported, but I'd like to be heard by the President today by the National Bank. Today, nearly 100 banks in Ukraine, over 90, refuse to continue their lending contracts for peasants. Prolong loans. It's sown. You know what prices we bought the grain, the sunflower, there was no market, the village had nothing to pay for. And there's nothing to get banks out of it. Step one: Continue, prolong and allow the peasants to pay off these loans in a better situation. So our 399 votes should serve as a signal. And the National Bank needs to find mechanisms to influence commercial banks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u275	Gasuk Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u276	Please pass the word to the representative of Babayev.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u277	Dear colleagues, this law is good for farmers, and I also support it, but it's very hard on meat processors. There is a provision for the introduction of 15 days of standards for sausages. So I'm going to tell you that today I'm talking not only about myself, but also about hundreds of mass processors and hundreds of thousands of people working on them, that these standards, first of all, will bring them up to 30-40 percent of the price of sausage. And what we fought 10 to 15 years ago with the power of cheap Polish sausage, today this law unfortunately opens the way. I therefore believe that it is necessary to prepare amendments to this law and to remove this amendment, where today it is written in black and white that the Cabinet of Ministers must prepare these standards within 15 days. And that's the last thing I want to say. That this situation today is actually made by the people who are dealing with the chicken. And our minister is a scoundrel.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u278	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u279	And the Minister is cunning when he introduces this provision on the introduction of GUEST standards. Today, no one wants to see the prices of sausages go up to a hundred bracelets and our residents go and buy a chicken. The Ukrainian's always been eating pork and beef, I mean. That is why I will soon prepare for such changes. I want you to support me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u280	Katerinczuk Mikola Dmitrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u281	There is now much talk about anticrisis. So this bill, I think, is the main one that deserves attention right in the direction of being able to attach the agricultural producer to the conditions of survival in these conditions. I understand that the speed of such bills is slow enough. Because there are many interests on different sides. But I wish they weren't one-sided. Nevertheless, the two notes, the innovations offered by the President, are also the restoration of subsidies to the producers of exclusively birds and to those producing rabbit meat. Some have been forgotten. I think the following bills will still take this into account. And the equality of the right to a relationship still has to be balanced. But the main thing we accepted today is that we saved VAT benefits from farmers who give meat and milk to producers. And it is very good that this bill came into existence. The President would like him as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u282	Mikola Dmitrovitch is asking the President to sign it sooner. Dear colleagues, the Ukrainian Act on amending certain laws of Ukraine to improve Ukraine's balance of payments in connection with the global financial crisis is under review, with proposals by the President of Ukraine, number 3379. Reported Deputy Finance Minister Fudashkin Denis Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u283	Good afternoon, distinguished national deputies, Mr. Chairman! Ukraine’s Supreme Council adopted on December 23, 2008, the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine in order to improve Ukraine’s balance of payments in connection with the global financial crisis, cannot be signed by the President on such grounds. The law that came to the President's signature provided for the introduction of a change and the cancellation of the temporary allowance for the current import duty rates for certain goods. This law stipulates that these rates are based on the appropriate basis of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade of 94, in particular Article 12. However, Article 12 of the GATT does not contain provisions for the application by WTO Member States of any allowances for the active rates of import duties. In doing so, according to the GATT Agreements of 94th year for the purpose of the balance of payments of the Member States of the WTO in applying the measures imposed by the restriction of imports, in accordance with Article 12 of the GATT, they should prefer to give priority to price measures that include an additional import assembly, import deposit requirements or other equivalent trade measures. The law essentially changes unilaterally the import duty rates established in accordance with Ukraine’s obligations under WTO membership. In addition, it is a memoranda of economic and financial policy with the International Monetary Fund to prohibit or increase import restrictions for the purposes of the balance of payments. The implementation of the temporary procedures proposed by law could endanger Ukraine’s continued cooperation with the International Monetary Fund. An increase in import duty rates may also lead to the application by States, which are Ukraine's main trading partners, of appropriate measures, including an adequate increase in the import duty on Ukrainian goods. The section of the second closing positions shall be implemented for a period of at least six months.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u284	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u285	A temporary rate of 13 percent to customs, which can be seen as a direct increase in import duties. I would like to point out that the President has also noted that the right to cancel the temporary rate granted by the Cabinet of Ministers does not correspond to the Constitution, namely article 92 of the Constitution of Ukraine. The president's conclusion is based on proposals from ministries and supported by the government. Please support the President's proposals and reject the project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u286	Thank you. I invite the head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, Terjehoin Sergio Anatoliyovich, to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u287	Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, the honourable presiding officer! With this bill, it's a slightly different story. I saw, frankly, for the first time, an example of a document presented by the President of Ukraine that contained two mutually exclusive proposals. The first proposal is to reject the law completely. And the second proposal is to set up an imported additional congregation by changing the name, the temporary import allowances that are in the law. Frankly, we have long thought about how to get out of this, mildly speaking, paranoid situation. I can tell you that the committee unanimously had an offer to overcome the President's veto. However, following consultations with the factions, it was found that one of the President's proposals, which was formulated in a textual but not suggested as a conclusion, was not to allow the Cabinet of Ministers to determine the list of critical imports, but to set up the list on the Supreme Council's rostrum now and to send the bill to the President in a new edition. That list is contained in this bill. I can read it for the transcript. This is under the codes OCTED: 0202, 0203, 0206-0210, 0504, 0506, 0509 and 0511, except for entry 0511, ten four zeros, 0808, 1601-1605, 1701, 1702, except for the starch stream in the heading 1702-thirty-nine nine zeros, 2204-2208, 2701, 4203, 4303, 50.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u288	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u289	Thank you. .60-65, 6806, 6901, 7201, 7301, 7321, 8401, 8414, 8418, 8501, 8516, 8702, 8703, 8704. All these positions, honourable national MPs, I remind you, were completely reconciled between factions when we adopted this bill in general and directed to the President. We have two outcomes: to put the President's first proposal to reject this project; the President's second proposal to change the name of the temporary allowance; the proposal of our committee is to overcome the President's veto. And my proposal is, personally, as a national deputy: after discussing with factions, to limit yourself to writing in this law, that critical imports are all goods except what I now call a stenogram. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u290	Thank you, Sergey Anatolyovich. Dear colleagues, we have an unusual situation. I'm talking to the faction leaders right now, so let's just swap in a minute. If we take the procedure now, for example, we reject the President's proposal, we don't vote against the veto, we don't have the right to continue working with this law. So I have a proposal, a request now to the faction leaders: shall we go the way that Sergey Anatoliyevich suggested -- let's take into account one proposal from the President, even though the proposals are interesting to him -- and reject, and count, but nevertheless, let's take into account the President's proposal, and actually accept a new bill, or should we go on a certain path -- to consider the President's proposals and overcome the veto? So let's ask the factions to sign up in a minute, and let's talk about how we can keep moving. Please sign up. Pisarenko. John Grigorovich Kirilenko is given the word. Ivan Grigorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u291	Dear Mikolo Volodymyrovich, reverend Sergey Anatolyovich! Is it clear once again if we agree with the President's proposal that Sergey Anatoliyovich Teryohin has in fact given us the right to make this list? We made it, this list. We voted. The body of the law doesn't change, and we're going to sign it?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u292	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u293	If that's the case, I think we can support it. If not, if it is vetoed again and so forth, then it is better to overcome the veto, and let the law go to work. Make it clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u294	Maybe there's a veto, because it's going to be a new edition, absolutely clear. So we have two possibilities: to agree with the content, it's not formulated as a proposal, with the content of the presidential letter, and to set up this list, which is not critical, and all the rest of the critical imports we're going to have are raw materials and so on in the Supreme Council and send it to the President again, but it's a new edition, which is the veto. Or overcome the veto.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u295	Gordijenko is handing over to Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u296	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Ladies and gentlemen, I rarely call on you to violate the Rules, but in this case, I fully support the President's proposals, which go back to what we give, as the committee suggests, let's make two votes: let's put the first vote to the vote, the President's proposal to reject the bill; if it doesn't get the necessary number of votes, we'll put the proposal to overcome the veto; if this proposal doesn't get the required number of votes, then we'll take into account the President's final proposal -- and we'll adopt the law in that paper, which the committee's chairman has proposed. And I think we might be right here.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u297	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Jaroslav Suhi, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u298	Dear colleagues, I think we should follow the Rules. And my word to Tariel Shakrovitch Vasadza.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u299	Please, Vasadze microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u300	Dear Nikolai Vladimirović, distinguished colleagues, I think we all understand and know the situation in industry today. We also know the balance of payments situation with you. We urgently need to take concrete measures that will help the domestic producer and the consumer. Therefore, I would like to ask: you can accept a proposal where, specifically, Sergey Anatolevich Terehin has also repeated, to specify the positions for which the duty will be increased. I think we'll agree with that, that is, it matches the President's proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u301	Thank you. Knazević, “Our Ukraine” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u302	I ask you to give Bondar Alexander Mikolaiovich the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u303	Bondar microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u304	Ladies and gentlemen, we are now confusing ourselves and everyone else. The President's proposal is clear: reasoning there, comments there is different. It makes it clear that we should reject the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u305	And the second is to change the name.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u306	Either we can turn it down, or we can beat the veto with three hundred votes. If the committee has another proposal, they should prepare a different version of the law and submit it to us for consideration. The second position, the opinion of the President and the Cabinet of Ministers, has now come to a complete conclusion, and the President and the government that has presented the representative propose to reject this law. Well, why are we now going to make decisions out of a voice that we don't understand if we can prepare the law in detail and submit a new edition to the President's signature? Well, there's no other way.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u307	May I? Literally 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u308	Sergei Anatolyevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u309	I would like to stress once again, please look at the President, who, in violation of the Constitutional Court's ruling, did not formulate the exact claim in an articleistic manner. Second, he made two mutually exclusive proposals. Last paragraph: To reject the law. Last paragraph: Enter the import temporary., import temporary congregation. Yeah, yeah. [[B in m in s a l in]] In fact, what does the President propose? We've taken this literally. If the first suggestion is rejected, the committee disagreed with it and suggested that the hall disagree. If the second sentence, let's vote, let's change the name, there's the President's proposal. But if you do, take the President's proposal not formulated as a final proposal, but which in the text is that the argument is that Kabmin has no right to change his duties on his own. Okay, let's take it into account, and on the points where I read the transcript, let's take the Supreme Council, the Ukrainian Parliament, this list.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u310	Dear colleagues, there is no council, so we will act, determine by vote. Because in every aspect of our view and vote, we will make a decision. I am voting on a proposal by the President of Ukraine to reject Ukraine’s law to amend some Ukrainian laws in order to improve Ukraine’s balance of payments in connection with Ukraine’s global financial crisis, number 3379. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u311	The committee does not support this. [[14:17:32]] For-47
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u312	The decision is not taken. I'm voting on the committee's proposal to beat the veto of the President of Ukraine. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u313	The committee supports. [[14:17:55]] For 226 226 is the case that the decision is not taken. So, colleagues, now we have a choice to either break the Rules and take into account the president's amendment, or leave history with this bill. If there is no objection, I would ask Sergey Anatoliyovich to re-interpret the President's amendment. Please, Sergey Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u314	The President's proposal, in the legal language, reads: “In the second paragraph of the second paragraph of the second section, ‘The Final Position’, the words ‘The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine approves the list of critical imports except for such goods’, to replace the words ‘that any goods under UCTZED product groups or codes are included in the list of critical imports’, and what I have read to you is not included in the list of critical imports. [[I've read what goods]] That is, a 13 - percent temporary allowance is applied to these goods.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u315	I'm betting on the President's motion addressed to the Supreme Council and bugged by Sergei Anatoliyovich. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u316	Please be supportive. [[14:19:33]] For 328 Dear colleagues, this is how we passed the new law, taking into account the President's proposal, and we are awaiting the President's response now. I would like to announce the Ukrainian Act on the State Property Fund of Ukraine with proposals from the President of Ukraine dated 13.06. In 2007, registration is 0859. Welcome to the floor of President Slapak Alexander Vitaliyovich's First Deputy Secretary of the Secretariat. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u317	Mr. Chairman, honourable national MPs, Ukraine's Act on the State Property Fund of Ukraine is not signed by the President of Ukraine, because he believes that there is an inadequacy between the individual provisions of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. In fact, it is about five main points of reference to this law. The first refers to the status of the State Property Fund. The law provides for such status as the central authority of the executive branch with special status. Instead, the Constitution provides for a special arrangement for the appointment and release of the Head of the State Property Fund, which indicates that the Special Status Fund is granted by the Basic Law, primarily because of the special procedure for the appointment of his head. In addition, confirmation of the special status of the State Property Fund is the specialization of the Law “On the Management of State Property Objects of the Fund from among the other subjects of public property management. Therefore, the status of the State Property Fund of Ukraine should be defined as a state authority with special status. Secondly, the law establishes that if the Head of the State Property Fund is released until the new Head of the Fund is appointed temporarily, but not more than one month, the first Deputy Head of the Fund shall act. In doing so, the question remains: Who will assume the responsibilities of head of the fund if not appointed during the month of the new head. Thirdly, the designated powers of the State Property Fund of Ukraine as the subject of public property management do not comply with the relevant provisions of the Ukrainian Law on State Property Management. Article 2 of this Act defines the task of the fund, which is not provided for by the Ukrainian Act on the administration of public property. In particular, the implementation of public policy on the administration of public property, the use and alienation of state property, public policy on corporate rights, and so forth. The imposition on the State Property Fund of such tasks is not in line with the Constitution, under which only the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is designated as the only constitutional authority for the administration of public property. Fourth, the law provides.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u318	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u319	The law provides for a position that creates conditions for manual control of the process of privatization of state property. In particular, the Fund has decided to halt, suspend the privatization of state property, including the removal of the object of privatization from the sale, and amend the plan for the placement of the shares of the open shareholders at the time of their transfer in the event of breaches of the Constitution. I don't want to give an example of how this has been applied in practice, but unfortunately, such authorizations of the fund have led to manual management of the privatization process. Finally, the last fifth, the law stipulated the existence of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Property Fund, which is not part of the system of the U.S. State Property Fund. In this Fund of State Property, Ukraine has the right to delegate the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Property Fund to the management and privatization of state property. This is contrary to the Ukrainian Act “On the administration of an object of state ownership”, under which the right to authorize certain authorities to manage public property objects belongs exclusively to the Cabinet of Ministers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u320	Thank you, Alexander Vitaliovich. Please, have a seat. There will be no questions today, Alexander Mikolaiovich Bondar, please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u321	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! Dear National Deputies! We bring to the table the President's proposal for a multifaceted law, which the President has imposed on the previous one, seven times already. And the Economic Policy Committee, looking at the President's proposals, has considered them and proposes to take them fully into account in order to force the President to sign this law this time. If we now vote these proposals by 300 votes, I think the Fund Act will finally appear. The existence of the Fund Act is much better than those observations that are small, shallow, that provide the scientific expertise that I know do not come from the national MPs. We and the representatives of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko have agreed that we will immediately submit three observations to the signed law to the Supreme Council and accept it. What does this law do? This law regulates the activities of the Holding Fund, including the appointment of the head of the Fund, at the request of the Prime Minister, to appoint deputy heads of the Fund by decision of the government. The assignment of the executive responsibility, the first deputy, or substitute, is all the conflicting things that unfortunately now take place. The scientific expertise has given a few points to this law, but they're not important, and I want to say again, any disregard for the President's observation will lead to a new regulation of the law and the veto. So I'm asking the people's deputies of all factions to support the President's proposals, to vote in favour of this law, so that it will finally be signed by the President and the State Property Fund will start working in the legislative process. It's very urgent for both the budget and to stabilize the privatization situation at the holding fund. Thank you for your attention, and once again, all the President's remarks to one committee of economic policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u322	Thank you, Alexander Mikolayovich! But I'm sad to say that what I saw in the table, partly taken into account, is essentially this form. So I would like you to give a more precise answer right now to take into account the remarks made by the President of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u323	I can explain. Some of the President’s remarks were not clear or specific. That's why you've taken them into account textually and I've now taken this note with the President's representative in the Supreme Council, and he's confirmed that all the President's remarks are fully taken into account, and I can give him my word. There were just some remarks that weren't worded, but we actually counted them. I can confirm that, and Mr. Schlapak can confirm that, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u324	Thank you, Alexander Mikolayovich! I put to the vote the first observation made by the President of Ukraine. I'd like to make a statement. [[14:27:03]] For-286 The President's proposal is supported. I'm betting on the President's vote on a second proposal for a clear delimitation in the law of the tasks and functions of the State Property Fund. I'd like to make a statement. [[14:27:32]] For 358 Decision taken. I am betting on the vote on the President's third proposal to determine in the law the conditions and procedure for decisions by the Ukrainian State Property Fund to stop privatization. I'd like to make a statement. [[14:27:58]] For 366 Decision taken. I am voting on the President’s fourth proposal to reconcile the provisions of the Law concerning the powers of the Ukrainian State Property Fund in the area of administration of state property with the Constitution of Ukraine and the corresponding provisions of the Law on the administration of public property. I'd like to make a statement. [[14:28:29]] For 367 Decision taken. I am betting on voting on the fifth sentence of the President of Ukraine to delete part two and part three of article ten of the law. I'd like to make a statement. [[14:28:56]] For 368 Decision taken. I am voting on the sixth proposal of the President in part 4 of article 10 of the law to settle the issue of the appointment of the official on whom the head of the Fund is entrusted in the absence of appointment during the month of the new head of the State Property Fund. I'd like to make a statement. [[14:27:58]] For 344 Decision taken. I am voting on the President's seventh proposal, to settle the law on the interaction of the Ukrainian State Property Fund with the President of Ukraine and to exclude, in section 3 of article 20, the obligation to send Ukraine's State Property Fund to draft acts by the President of Ukraine to reach conclusions. I'd like to make a statement. [[14:30:07]] For 347 Decision taken. I am voting on the eighth sentence of the President of Ukraine to refer to chapter six, paragraph 3, to the conclusion of the law with the Ukrainian Act on the administration of public property. I'd like to make a statement. [[14:30:36]] For 340. Decision taken. Thus, we supported all the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. I am voting for a new edition of the Ukrainian Act on the State Property Fund, taking into account the changes that have now been voted on on the basis of the proposals of the President of Ukraine. I'd like to make up my mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u325	Let's have four hundred votes, ladies! [[14:31:08]] For 349 Decision taken. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Article 30 of the Ukrainian Act on Privatisation of State Property on Guarantee Payment in the event of an applicant being brought before a court to suspend or suspend the privatization of objects or stocks, with proposals by the President of Ukraine, registration number 0869. Alexander Vitaliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u326	Thank you. Dear Lord Chairman! Dear National Deputies! Let me answer that, Adam Ivanovich. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that the law provides that a party who claims to be suing for a warrant by banning State property or corporate rights should account for 100 percent of the initial cost of such a privatisation facility. The proposed positions are not supported by the President of Ukraine for such reasons. First of all, it is the subject of regulation, not of the Ukrainian Law on Privatisation of State Property, but of the Ukrainian Code of Procedure. At the same time, the issue of preventing the abuse of precautionary measures is already settled. I would like to remind you, in particular, that the court may oblige the applicant to ensure that he is required by bail sufficient to prevent the abuse of precautionary measures to be taken against the deposit of the court. The size of such a mortgage is determined by an economic court, taking into account all economic circumstances. And the same rule is repeated in the Civil Procedural Code. In addition, the law violates the constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens in the courts of decisions, actions or omissions of public authorities and officials. In most cases, it is clear that in practice, citizens, labour groups of enterprises, due to the lack of funds, will not be able to account for 100 percent of the initial cost of the privatisation facility. As a result, they will not be able to appeal to the court for the protection of their interests with due regard for the enforcement of the suit. So it can happen that whoever deliberately tries to stop privatization, I convince you, will find a resource to bring to trial. And if it's a labor team, he won't be able to do it. In addition, the bill provides for 10 per cent of the mortgage to be recalculated by the privatization body.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u327	Please, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u328	To Ukraine’s State Budget, in case of partial refusal by the court, the plaintiff is satisfied with the claim, and 50 per cent of the mortgage in case of total refusal. However, the applicant’s return to the remaining funds is not settled. Moreover, it is not possible for such funds to be reimbursed. The President is asking the Supreme Council to reject such legislative innovation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u329	Thank you, Alexander Vitaliovich. Please report from the Committee, Alexander Mikolaiovich Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u330	Dear people's deputies, it's getting easier in the President's amendments to this law. It is clearly stated that the President proposes that the Supreme Council reject this law. The representative of the President’s Secretariat stressed the basis for this. I'm not going to repeat them to shorten your time. I'll say one thing. That this law was prepared and voted by the Supreme Council for the previous call of members of the Socialist Party to the orders of Valentina Petrovni Semenyuk in order to make it difficult for the State Property Fund to appear before the courts. The President made it very clear, he argued, that this would invalidate the Constitution and all the rules of law. Therefore, the committee, after considering this law, unanimously supports the President's proposal to reject this law. I would like to vote with one vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u331	Thank you. Have a seat. Please. I put to the vote the proposal of the President of Ukraine, which coincides with the proposal of a committee of profile, to reject the law. I'd like to make a statement. [[14:35:44]] For 308. Decision taken. The President's proposal is supported by Parliament. The Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on the Development of Small Hydropower in Ukraine, with proposals from the President of Ukraine, has been announced for consideration. [[Registration number 0852]] Alexander Vitaliovich Schlapak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u332	Dear Lord Chairman, distinguished national MPs! There's a story, on the one hand, that's a little bit more complicated, maybe on the other hand, and it's a little simpler. The point is that the law that is now under discussion was passed on February 22, 2007. In fact, it contained three innovations. The first one. The subject covered by the law, namely: Small hydropower enterprises are allowed not to pay a targeted allowance for the current tariff on electricity, not to pay a targeted allowance for financing wind power plants, and so on. Second money. This law obliges the wholesale electricity market to buy all remaining electricity produced by small hydropower stations and not sold to direct suppliers at projected wholesale prices. And finally the third. The privatization of such objects is permitted. I would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that on September 25, 2008, the Act of 601 amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the establishment of a green tariff, which is set by a special tariff, is the so-called green tariff. And that's how this law solves the first and second problems that the President talks about in his veto. That's why I have this request. Now to reject the bill that we're talking about, because a lot of its issues are already settled. With regard to privatization issues, we would have to work further on the economic committee, because there is a more difficult situation. We will have to introduce standards, amendments to the Law on Privatization of State Property Objects in article five. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u333	Thank you, Alexander Vitaliovich. Please, Mikola Volodymyrovich Martinenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u334	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! The Act sought to regulate the operation of small hydropower, which at some point was sufficiently involved in the production of electricity for consumers in areas where small GES was located, and also maintained the proper state of the flow of rivers. But a bad investment climate for a long time, a ban on privatization in hydropower, including in small, unbalanced tariff policies, has virtually destroyed this energy sector. And given the estimates of experts, we should produce about 3 billion kilowatts/hours for small GES, which would not be too much for our consumers, but cleaner ones. The President of Ukraine suggested that this law be repealed as such, which does not correspond to the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, which she did not agree with, is true, the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority. At the same time, the President did not make any suggestions to his text that could be taken into account by the committee. There is no opinion on how to solve small, small hydropower problems. The committee was forced to accept the President's proposal to repeal the law and proposes to do so to the Supreme Council. The vote on the committee was unanimous. At the same time, the committee considers it necessary to note that, in fact, since then, a law has been adopted to amend some of the laws of Ukraine concerning the establishment of a green tariff, which is regulated by most of the problems of small hydropower. And that's why today this branch has all the legal basis for development. Therefore, there is a request to accept the President’s proposal to repeal the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u335	Thank you, Mikola Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal of the President of Ukraine, supported by the profile committee, to reject the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the development of small hydropower in Ukraine, number 0852. I'd like to make a statement. [[14:40:18]] For 216 The decision is not taken. The president's proposal and the committee's proposal are not supported. We don't know what it is.? The point is that the President of Ukraine's proposal is to reject the law. And the committee of profile, presented by Mikola Volodymyrovich Martinenko, proposes to accept the president's proposal and reject the bill. Do you understand the offer? I'm sorry you didn't get it? Mikola Volodymyrovich, please specify the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u336	Dear colleagues, after we were given the non-signature of the bill, we developed a new bill that was generally relevant, including small hydropower. And all the positions that were set out in this law are all taken into account. So he has no further meaning in the law. So there is a proposal to accept the President's proposal to repeal the law. There's no way to even work on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u337	Do you understand the offer? I'm voting on the proposal of the President of Ukraine. I am voting on the proposal by the President of Ukraine to reject the Ukrainian Law on Change in Certain Ukrainian Laws on the Development of Small Hydropower in Ukraine. I'd like to make a statement. [[14:42:13]] For 232 Decision taken. Announcing the Ukrainian Act on Regulation of the Implementation of Certain Socio-Significant Foods, with proposals by the President of Ukraine, registration number 2292. He reports: Alexander Vitaliovich Schlapak.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u338	Thank you. The President of Ukraine has not signed the Ukrainian Act "On Regulation of the Implementation of Certain Socio-Significant Foods" on such grounds. In accordance with the law, a marginal trade allowance for socially significant food is set at no higher than 15 per cent of the manufacturer's wholesale or customs value to the end consumer, and a list of such products is established. [[dance]] At the same time, the Cabinet of Ministers is given the right to complete and clarify the specified list. What comments do the President have? Note first. Again, an attempt is made to regain the right to confiscate property by decision of the official, not by a court. I'll remind you that according to the law, this amount of trade allowance will be obtained by violating the rules of this law and a double fine of the proceeds in an undeniable manner by the State Tax Administration, as decided by the State Price Control Inspectorate. [[prices]] Second remark. In an undisturbed order, it is suggested that even a fine of 50 percent of the money received be collected from products that were not converted into a three - day term for the manufacturer. I think if you consult with any of the trading points that sells quite a lot of food, you'll realize that this rule is virtually impossible, or maybe any of these operators are attracted to that responsibility. Third. The right to conduct business is severely restricted. In particular, they are prohibited from making contracts that provide for other financial obligations than those laid down in the standard contract approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and the proceeds of contracts that differ from such a standard contract are drawn up on a double scale in the same order again. Four. It raises serious questions the very term “consumer’s end”, as this may make it more difficult to implement the provisions of the law. In particular, who and in what cases do they refer to the final consumer? He's a citizen.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u339	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u340	a citizen who buys food for his own use, could it also be a processed agricultural product that receives another food product at the end of processing? Secondly, if a final consumer can be considered a processing company, the law does not determine the minimum level of processing at which the installation is allowed, other than an increase of 15 per cent of the holiday price. Even more difficult is the situation of those involved in such operations as packaging, marking, and storage. So for example, we figured out that we don't get 15 percent in vegetables or milk, and then their implementation is just impossible in trading nets. Even more challenging is the situation in public food companies: restaurants, cafes. In particular, how do you figure out a 15 percent bonus there, practically nobody knows. In this regard, the president asks you to reject the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u341	Thank you, Alexander Vitaliovich. Natalia Juryovna Kraljevska, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u342	Honorable fellow MPs, distinguished tellers, reverend Alexander Volodymyrovich! The Committee on Industrial, Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship at its September 4th 2008 meeting considered the proposals of the President of Ukraine to the Ukrainian Law on Regulation, Implementation of Certain Socially Important Foods. I remind you, on 16 May this year, the Supreme Council of Ukraine passed Bill 2292. However, he was vetoed by the President. The Committee considered the President's objections. And we have taken into account the position of the Head of State. However, we believe that such grounds for the veto are not sufficient today, given that the law is of the utmost social importance, especially today, in the context of the global crisis and the sharp decline in the income of citizens. The protection of rights, not only by economic actors, is now particularly important, but also by millions of Ukrainian consumers. I briefly remind you of the history of the question. The Act was adopted to address the issue of certain socially relevant foods and to ensure effective monitoring of prices for food products. If the adoption of Law 2292 was a gift to consumers before the crisis, this is an urgent need today. The crisis has clearly revealed all the shortcomings of the Ukrainian market, which were common in economic growth. It is greed and lack of accountability to consumers. In developed countries, the concepts of “business” and “social responsibility” are inseparable. Unfortunately, we still need to regulate these rules. Today, retail trading networks through people and national consumers have developed, which is unacceptable during the crisis. Therefore, the Committee's proposal: to overcome the veto. At the same time, however, the proposal by Yulia Timoshenko: since this law was passed both in the first and second readings simultaneously, and there is indeed a comment by the Science and Experience Department on terminology, on the failure of certain paragraphs of the law, our proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u343	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u344	The faction's proposal is to refer this law to the committee for further work. We will finalize it as soon as possible, and we will submit a law that is fully regulated and necessary today in order to protect all our people from the punitive policies of trade networks, from the cartels that exist today, regarding the allowance for socially meaningful food. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u345	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the proposal of the President of Ukraine to reject the Ukrainian Act on Regulation of the Implementation of Certain Socio-Significant Foods. I'd like to make a statement. [[14:49:05]] For 296 The proposal of the President of Ukraine is supported, the bill is repealed, the law is repealed. I address the committee's head: Natalia Juryovna, please, since the problem needs a legislative settlement, there is a request to the Ukrainian National Deputies, members of your committee, to pay attention to this problem and offer the Supreme Council a new solution to this problem in the new draft law. Dear colleagues, according to the schedule of meetings for today's session, the next issue we have to consider is the project. Project, no, Ukrainian Law on State Land cadastre with proposals from the President of Ukraine. We've got a serious problem here, and I'm looking at the material that's being submitted. A table is given to prepare for second reading in the profile committee. We have an approved law to which the proposals of the President of Ukraine have been made. The President's veto has not been overtaken, and we can only now consider a new draft law. Since there is such a profile committee initiative, I would like to ask the people's deputies to speak now about the kind of parliamentary know-how that we should now respond to this proposal. Please sign up. Dear colleagues, the morning plenary meeting will continue for 15 minutes. Dear colleagues, if there's been an offer today without interruption to work until 15, the Chief has a 15-minute regulatory right so that we can consider the issues that you insisted on. Please, Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u346	Dear Alexander Vladimirovic, distinguished people's deputies, well, because somehow there's such a know-how, it's hard to overwhelm this know-how after five hours without interruption of work, yes. But I think the key word here is the lawyer. If it is indeed legally correct, the table has been prepared, can be considered and adopted only if it has been corrected and followed by existing legislation and regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u347	N.O.T., please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u348	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, I, in principle, also support Mr. Michael Chechtchev's position that we have examined the law in detail on the committee, but he does look like a second reading. And that's why it takes a lawyer to say it, because it's a basic law. If we look at it conditionally today, I'm afraid the President will veto it again. So let's do it now, or let's do it today, and let the lawyers say their position. And the law is ready for second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u349	Well, one of the lawyers has already told you his point of view, and the Chief Justice agrees with the proposal I made to you. That's why. Well, of course, we don't have the right to consider that law right now. People's MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u350	Pavlov Mokchan, "Club of Yulia Timoshenko". Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! You realize that land issues that we just want to look at quickly are, in my opinion, blasphemy and misunderstanding of what spheres we're covering. It takes not only a table but a comprehensive reading and a coma to prevent us from doing what we have already done here, when the earth is actually taken to the peasants. And so what's done is done is not enough. We just need every item today to be analysed not only by an expert group but by each of the deputies present. Because we're talking about the most important national capital, the land. And that's why I support my previous colleagues' position on this. That's the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u351	National Deputy Karpuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u352	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine", group "For Ukraine". I think the idea of the hall is generally consistent, it's a bill prepared for the second reading. We have to take off today. What's more, this is a request: we understand the importance of such a bill. 117 are amended. There are always many debates on such drafts. Thus, it is not possible for such important bills to be passed at the end of the day or at the end of meetings to be produced and taken into account at the Conciliation Council in the morning. And I ask that this bill be transferred first to tomorrow for consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u353	Gumenjuk Oleg Ivanovich. There's no Gumenjuk People's Deputy. Word, what's the matter? Welder Roman Mikhailovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u354	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues, I read the last sentence of the President's proposal that came to the Supreme Council in the veto: “Considering the above-mentioned proposal of the Ukrainian Law on the State Land Cadastre” to reject.” In accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court, the Supreme Council of Ukraine may, at this stage, either take into account the President's proposal by 226 votes, or overcome the veto of the President of Ukraine, which requires 300 votes in the session room. I would stress no proposal or recommendation more loyally than the Supreme Council of Ukraine would vote on a single proposal by the President of Ukraine. Instead, what we get as a so-called comparative table can be considered in the order of the primary legislative initiative in the mode.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u355	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u356	In first-read mode. Otherwise, we're not only violating our Rules, not just the procedure laid down in this Rules, the decision of the Constitutional Court, but I will allow myself to say, common sense. We did it, by the way, with the law that Sergey Terrohin reported. I'd like to ask that we don't multiply these mistakes today.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u357	Thank you, Roman Mikhailovich. We will not multiply or make mistakes in this case, because we have this law with the President's proposals already under consideration and we have only one possibility for today -- to solve this problem by a new law that is to be followed by a procedure established by the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. We must respect our Rules and decisions of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. I asked them to express themselves. In order to make it clear that all committees in Parliament should work carefully in accordance with the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. A draft Law on the Principles for Restoration and Development of Ukrainian Cossacks, Cossack Organizations, and Their Unity is under review. Registration number 2441. According to Arjewityn Stanislaw Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u358	Deputies! Dear Cossacks of Ukraine! Several words of general comment, considering that there have been many comments, I asked that the term “Ukraine’s Cossacks” should be read throughout the text of the bill, not as a separate organization, but as an all-U.S. movement, which includes all 723 Cossack organizations as legal persons, including the Portuguese army and other Cossack organizations, and includes 14 including Cuban. There are also 14 Cossacks in the Minosveti system, 23 Yur schools, and more than 50 old health camps. In general, there are more than 300,000 Cossacks in the Cossack Registers today. The bill was prepared by delegates of several of the All - Ukrainian Great Cossack Councils and was discussed in public for two years. For example, in Russia, I wanted to show you a few bills that regulate the Cossack movement, a few decrees from their council, and many presidential decrees in general, more than 30. A similar legislative base exists that regulates the Cossack movement in the Republic of Moldova. Unfortunately, at some point we don't have these Cossacks in Ukraine. So the goal of enacting the law is to implement the potential of a Cossack idea for the consolidation of society; the second is to pool the resources of a Cossack State to restore the historical traditions of the Ukrainian people, to involve Cossack organizations in the protection of public order, the state border, the cultural heritage, and, above all, to physical and sporting work and military and patriotic education of young people and children. Today, there is a low level of public awareness of the history of Ukrainian Cossacks, its tradition, and the modern purpose of Cossacks. That is why more than 700 distinguished Cossack organizations, with signs of military formations that arbitrarily treat Cossack traditions, form their own ideology and youth - rearing systems, are operating in Ukraine today. It is a practice of involving Cossack organizations in political processes and even in international conflicts. The bill prohibits the establishment of paramilitary Cossack social formations, the use of military structures, regulates the establishment and assignment of Cossacks and Cossack symbols, introduces a single state register of Cossack organizations, and, above all, is preserved by Cossack customs by the great Cossack Council as a self-governing organization in the Cossacks. Deputies! Many of you are, especially members of the Party of Regions, of the famous Cossacks. Many of you are a Cossack. I know many of you have been involved in the revival of Ukrainian Cossacks in Ukraine. In this room, the Hymn of Ukraine, which we are doing together with you, said: “We will lay down our soul and body for our freedom and show that we, brothers, are a Cossack species.” That's why I'm proposing.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u359	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u360	Ladies and gentlemen! By voting and supporting the first reading, let us show that we are brothers of a Cossack kind. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u361	Report: Victor Viktorovich Shemchuk, please. No co-rapporteur. Please sign up for the discussion. National Deputy Vizewski, Grigorovich Lilia Stepanovna
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u362	Ladies and gentlemen of the national council, honourable citizens! In fact, there is a Cossack movement in both the Russian Federation and the Transnistrian Republic of Moldova. And in Ukraine, where it was in the historical retrospective that, first of all, we don't have a legislative base. I think it would be perfectly logical to sort out this social movement that is taking place. Moreover, representatives from the Party of Regions have been told here that really Cossack families and Cossacks are also seen in this session hall. I'll tell my colleagues on the left that red Cossacks were in the Great Civil War. It seems to me that if we accept the legislative base that regulates this diversity, diversity, for example, for the benefit of our younger generation, let them dance better in Cossacks, play Cossacks, because sports requires halls, trainers, and here just fresh air, good will and organization. I hope that today we will be able to give this opportunity to organize this historic movement in the modern dimension by our vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u363	School of Andriy Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u364	Thank you. Of course, the faction bill will be supported in the first reading, because under the circumstances we really have to sort out a different and sometimes opposite movement into unity, which ensures national integrity rather than vice versa, helps to make Ukraine read and interpret old and new traditions. So I think we should support it in the first reading. The concept is interesting, putting it on the committee. The committee is working and we're all going to take part in this as a parliament, because of course, under the circumstances, we can talk about a large part of the inadequacies that are still in this law, but the concept that we're going to support in the first reading gives us reason to vote honestly and conscientiously. Of course, the Cossack tradition in Ukraine has sometimes turned into this kind of cultural activity, it's never been like this, but it's kind of a quaint way of saying it, so this law had to clearly regulate, clearly emphasize the traditionality of the Cossack movement. I think we have every reason to support it in the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u365	Gordijenko Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u366	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Poltavščina Honorable Ukrainian citizens, honourable deputies, Ukraine has always been famous for its knights, for its Cossacks, who have protected their homeland, defended it, promoted its honor and independence, and defended the common people who have been oppressed, those who have great wealth who have taken away the last vanity. I sit and watch today in the session room and again, and I reaffirm that for Ukraine the second most important is the bill after bats -- it's a bill on Cossacks. It seems to me that in the Presidential Administration there all those who have gone astray after the Connotapian or some battle in the swamps can't get out of that environment until now. I'd like to look at common sense today and say the next thing that we have a lot of public organizations in Ukraine, if we're going to write individual laws about beekeepers, about naturalists, about someone else, it's going to be a great luxury. So I think Cossacks could operate within a community organization. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the time when we can overcome the crisis, because the next thing, statistics in Ukraine today are producing one pancho, one per capita, one, not a couple, but one, where we'll pick up the store to keep everyone else on the line.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u367	Tomenko Mikola Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u368	Dear colleagues, I wanted to make sure that when we voted, we understood what we were talking about. In fact, there are two fundamentals that we haven't talked about. Thesis first. This law will try to eliminate the sad Ukrainian historical tradition that many of us have. If you read, it is forbidden to use the word “geetman” in statutory documents of the organization. I have here, in truth, the question of whether we can ban the use of the word “heatman” in statutory documents, meaning that these organizations and whether they should be banned in connection with the fact that they refer to the word “heatman”, but the law itself is written in order to, as it is written here, by the defiance of the local authorities of the local public administrations to organize and coordinate the Cossack public movement and to select one hetman, who will obviously be instructed by the heads of the district administrations. So I fully support the idea, I fully support the idea. Well, it looks like there's a lot of black thread written here, how do we make someone a hemman and a special law still write it? Well, my friends, should we no longer be regulating the law as to how to choose a certain national MP or a specific official?Oh, my God! That's why I want to say it again. Let us, by our vote and by our idea, support or ridicule the people who will ban the use of the word hetman in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-04-m0.u369	Thank you, Mikolo Volodymyrovich. I am voting on the basis of the draft Law on the Principles for Reconstruction and Development of Ukrainian Cossacks, Cossack Organizations and Their Unions. Registration number 2441. I'd like to make a statement. [[15:08:36]] For 219 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. The factions, please. Region Party – 1, "Timoshenko Yulia Block" – 141, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" – 58, communists – 0, "Litvina Block" -19. Dear colleagues, we now have a bill to amend the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences and the Ukrainian Customs Code concerning the prosecution of decisions on administrative offences. The point is that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Committee of Profiles asked to move it to the next plenary week. In view of the need for more detailed consideration, we do not have the necessary time to do so. The morning plenary session is closed.
