ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u1	Good morning, everyone. Please prepare for registration, turn on the "Council" system. [[10:00:44]] There are 438 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning plenary session is open. Dear colleagues, today in accordance with the Supreme Council Rules, we have 30 minutes to make statements by Ukrainian national deputies with statements, with proposals. Would you please sign up? Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u2	Please pass on the word of Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u3	Cibenko, please, Peter Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u4	Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, honourable citizens of Ukraine, I was forced to come to this high hall by one of the high officials to respond to my speech from the Supreme Council’s rostrum, and this is what I’m talking about. On February 5, 2009, during the discussion of the report of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, I, speaking on behalf of the faction of the Company of Ukraine, cited the egregious facts of the aimless, irresponsible, I would even say, the criminal use of budgetary resources. In particular, 150 million dollars have been named for the construction of the first round of the Memorial to the victims of hunger in the 1930s, the full cost of which is one billion dollars, as well as the construction of a multimillion-million-dollar memorial dedicated to Stephen Bandera in Ivano-Frankivsk. Here's the answer I got from Victor Anushkeviczus' city head. At a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on February 5, 2009, a presentation was made by the national deputy, Peter Czybenk, a faction of Communists, in which he claimed that Johno-Frankivsky was building a memorial to the heavens for which he used 70 million. That's right. The claim is officially denied: “We inform you that seven million bracelets have been used to build a set of national-liberal heroes and a monument to Stephen Bandery. This also includes charity contributions.” The answer, as a minimum, is strange and not sincere. The city chief thinks that by letter he is correcting my information. I think he actually confirmed it. Two conclusions, as a minimum: I have undeniable evidence that there was much more money used in Ivano-Frankivsky than there were seven million dollars. But even if only one thousand dollars were used, given the deep financial and economic crisis, these actions are completely irresponsible, and more so, they are criminal. So I'm going to the U.K. Attorney General's Office to investigate the fact that the budget was not used purposefully when it was built in the Ivano-Frankov Memorial of Stephen Bandera. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u5	Chief Igor Borisovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u6	Glavchenko Igor, Litvina Block. Please pass the word to Policchuku Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u7	Dear voters, distinguished colleagues, honourable chairman! On 27 March of this year, a plenary meeting of the Ishmael City Council took place to discuss the critical status of the VAT “Ukrainian Donetsk steaming”. As a representative of the Lithuanian Block, I have had to take part in this session and I want to point out that the state of affairs in one of the most powerful budgetary enterprises in the past is indeed critical. The 2006 financial result is 53 million dollars in damages and an increase of almost 40 percent in debt. The 2007 financial result is 39 million dollars in damages, an increase of 16 percent in debt. The financial result for 2008 is 26 million dollars. The current business debt ratio exceeds 50 million dollars and 18 million dollars. The operational debt on the bunker and the rigging is at $10 million. Rising debt on wages increases the number of ships arrested abroad through debt for fuel, repair, and fraction. The company faced the threat of financial bankruptcy and loss of vessels. What is the reason for these problems? There are many of them, but in the absence of time, I would like to draw your attention to the basics. A particular concern of the Lithuanian Block is the human resources issue. And this question, by the way, was a privilege at that meeting in Ishmael, where there was an asset, a labor team, an asset of this company's workforce. In 2007 and 2008, the Ministry of Transport and Communications signed 14 orders to appoint and release seven UDP VAT presidents. Not long ago, a new competition was held to replace the position of head of the company and, as I know, the Ministry is preparing an order to sign a corresponding contract with the winner of this competition, Mr. Sukhonenko, who, on March 3, was approved by the Ministry of Transport and Liaison in this office, is a person who has not only had sufficient experience in the field, but has no experience in directing businesses of this magnitude. There are serious doubts as to the ability of the above-mentioned winner to remove UDP VAT from a balanced state, to improve financial performance. We are convinced that the appointment of managers of this strategically important level. Yes, it does. can't be done at a party-quota distribution. In dealing with such human resources issues, there can only be one criterion: professionalism and positive work experience in the field. Therefore, on behalf of the Lithuanian Block faction, I appeal to the Minister for Transport and Liaison of Ukraine, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, to refrain from making a decision to appoint Mr. Suhanenko, Head of VAT, and to take appropriate action regarding the conduct of a transparent post-replacement competition in accordance with the requirements of current legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u8	Kenzior Jaroslav Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u9	The honourable chairman, the honourable colleagues, are the national deputies! First of all, when I respond to the first speaker, I would like to thank those communities, those local self - government bodies that restore monuments or establish monuments to the true Ukrainian heroes and restore the integrity and justice of our history. At the same time, this topic is directly related to what the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, which held its last meeting, saw a meeting in Kiev-Pecher Lavre. There we saw the reverse process: how the Moscow Orthodox Church destroys, destroys the unique ensemble, the unique architectural, historical and ensemble of the Kyevo-Pecherian Lavra, which is under the auspices and care of UNESCO. New ones are being built, as it were, cottages are being demolished, and the concrete is unique. And the Church of Salvation in Berest. It is said that concrete is being poured into the walls, and the water balance of the area is changing. As a result, water has already appeared in Lavra’s Lower Caves. So we've seen the complete process, the planned process of destroying this unique historical and cultural, architectural monument of our people. But most of all, dear colleagues, I was shocked by one document when the head of the historical and cultural reserve “Kievo-Pecherska Lavra” Sergey the King prepared us with the appropriate documents. I have in my hands the order of the Minister for Regional Development and Construction of Ukraine, Vasil Kulbida, who signed this document on February 7, last year, at number 61. The first point is that it is not the Kyewovo-Peterian Historical and Cultural Reserve, but rather that it is the religious organization of the Svetoussen Kyewovo-Petersky Lavre Paul, who is responsible for this need for religious organizations, that is, the church of the Moscow Patriarchate is listed, almost 26 million dollars, and it is the church of the Moscow Patriarchate that is destroying this unique monument. I'm asking you to consider this as a request to the Attorney General's Office, the Auditor's Office. On what right did the budget money go to the Church of the Moscow Patriarchate? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u10	National Deputy Gnatkovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u11	Please give the floor to a member of our faction, Vladimir Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u12	Please, Vladimir Bondarenko. Please come in.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u13	Vladimir Bondarenko, Timoshenko Yuli Block. Honorable colleagues, respectful listeners and viewers, each Christian in these days confides his thoughts, looks at his own soul and heart, and wonders whether he lived properly, what he did, and what the results of his activity were. Most Christians in these days are professed. These are special days, and so every step of politics, every step of a statesman on these days of a terrible week, should be checked out with the general ethical standards and rules of conduct of a Christian and a man. I'd like to do a little analysis today of the behavior of our distinguished politicians. These are two camps that seem to be hostile to each other, but which have one mint -- to destroy today's government, not allowing this government to do what it should do, putting it on the left, is a foot, a hand, but never supporting or helping. One appoints an all - Ukrainian rebellion in Kiev, and then, apparently wondering if anyone has indicated that in these days to rebel somehow is not entirely at hand, cancels the 14 - year - old congregations that he has intimidated the government and Ukraine that it will be the most voluntary meeting in Kiev. I think that the fact that there are no such congregations is also the merit of intelligent citizens who have refused to come here, regardless of the calls and even the wages that apply in such cases. But was it worth doing just in these prelude days? Obviously not. I think we need to rethink this for whoever initiated them. Another tells of the U.S., on the whole Ukrainian air, that he will give a team or commission a faction that will still support him in Parliament, vote for government projects in the Supreme Council, but deceives, as always, as he has lied since 2004. And in these days he, who has demonstrated his Christian humility, is especially immoral. When laws are laid down in this room for Ukraine, the laws that enable us to obtain the financial support of the world are subtle and one goal is to prevent this government from coping with an unprecedented pressure. In doing so, they put the government on the spagat. Some call for large social programs, forgetting that two years ago, from this rostrum, everyone was sent wherever possible, cutting and canceling all programs for the benefit of their businesses in the eastern region. And the second one also forgets that in these days it would still be necessary to think about his soul, which he sells to the evil forces that push him to destroy, in fact, Ukraine and the only force in Ukraine -- the government of Ukraine that supports order today, which is the only one fighting for the state without giving it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u14	Efraemov Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u15	Dear Alexander Vladimirović, distinguished colleagues! I think it's immoral to talk about God and engage in provocation. The fact that we did not consider the anti-crisis programme yesterday speaks of several things: the first and the main, the current Government is unable to produce a comprehensive document to respond to the challenges of the crisis. Second. We are simply wasting our time, and the country will not be in Europe, where we have been promised to bring false Democrats, but on the side of civilization. Third. All these months we have been lied to, deceived by a coalition head-on with a speaker when talking about anti-crisis measures. He was deceiving the Prime Minister by telling her that she would close the door to the crisis in our country and that everything was going well. The fact has proved that everything is good for her and her environment, and more than 70 per cent of the country's citizens are simply struggling with the problems they face. With the help of the authorities, the members of the Party of the Regions have developed a comprehensive document to justify the causes of the crisis and to identify ways of overcoming it, as well as clear requirements for an anti-crisis programme. The document was handed over to the authorities the other day, after which they asked for more time to take into account the opposition's proposals. And not two or three days, but two or three weeks. You know, respectable colleagues, after this reaction by the authorities and representatives of the coalition in Parliament, and seeing tens of them shut down every day, and thousands of people are out of work and a piece of bread, except I can't cynically name that power personally. And I do not believe that those who have plunged the country into poverty are able to produce anything useful in the future. I also believe that the root of the crisis in our State is not the problem of the world financial system but of the people. In this regard, people are not entirely honest, who in 2005 have not been honest enough and have not had enough experience and knowledge to take over the government offices of Grushewski and Bankova, and have been simply pretending to be a country and its people, turning it into a furrow. And he expects them to dissipate themselves when they do not have a good quality, which is a different quality tumor and can only be removed. Today, it is only a matter of how long the patient can endure whether or not the drug disposal operation will take place and who will be the surgeon. And worst of all, if Majdan is a surgeon again. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u16	Strtovic Volodymir Mikolajovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u17	Vladimir Stretović Party of the Christian-Democratic Union, faction of the People's Union-Our Ukraine. A statement by the Party of the Christian Democratic Union on the evocative fact is the poisoning of animals at the Yaltine City Zoo. For days, information sources spread information about the poisoning of animals at the Yaltin Zoo. And millions of our compatriots have witnessed the loss of friends of our smaller ones when they are near the blue screens. It was painful to look at their helpless eyes, the pains of fighting for life, and at that time a presumptuous criminal rejoiced in his success. Civilized citizens, those who think about bringing up future generations and store for the future everything that our predecessors acquired, are deeply outraged by this fact. And once again, we've seen the poverty of today's impoverished rich people who are ready for any action to achieve their black goal. The Party of the Christian Democratic Union requires the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Attorney General's Office, the Ukrainian Security Service to create a special investigation group to investigate this insolent crime, and the people of good will, to those who value Ukraine's future by working together to restore the losses suffered by the Yaltine Zoo. Next. Notice, in these days of the Passionous Week, what is taking place in Kiev regarding the illegal construction of the streets of Bogdan Hmelnick, 7 and Pushkinsky. Despite the completion of the building permit, the ban on all facilities on the construction, the contractor, Alliance Centre, continues to build, despite the prescriptions of the construction architectural inspection. I use this highest of the Ukrainian rostrums to draw the President's attention as a guarantor of the Constitution of Citizens' Rights and Freedoms, of the City of Cherniewets, of the Prosecutor of Kiev and of all those who are on the road to the future of Kiev, to put an end to this lawlessness. I appeal to the Head of the Supreme Council to request, on his behalf, an official request for the termination of this building. Otherwise, the public asset of house number 20 on Pushkinsky Street and the microregion is ready to start an endless campaign of protest, including starvation. Taking advantage of the opportunity, I welcome all Christians as we approach our light festival of the resurrection of Christ. Christ Resurrected and Ukraine! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u18	Theological Inna Hermanovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u19	Dear fellow Ukrainians, dear Ukrainians! We must pay attention to the whole society's next very decisive step towards the usurpation of power that was carried out yesterday by the government at the head of Mrs. Timoshenko. Yesterday, the government of Ukraine stated that it was taking decisions on matters relating to the exclusive competence of the Supreme Council legislature. I would like to remind the gentlemen of most coalitions, more specifically from a coalition without the majority, which exclusively refers to the competence of the Supreme Council of all budget issues, all the issues of the formation of the Pension Fund and all the issues of granting grants to the NAC “Naftogaza Ukraine”. So even though we do not have the decrees that the Prime Minister sent us yesterday, we want to warn the whole country. First. The Constitution of Ukraine clearly states that no human can be forced to obey illegal orders. That's why we're warning all government officials if you're forced to make illegal decisions by the Cabinet of Ministers that have been taken with excess competence, none of you should make those decisions. Otherwise, you will be liable to criminal responsibility. We also refer to Ukrainian citizens, who are now at risk of being forced to carry out illegal government decrees and transfer money to pension funds, new taxes and so on. We refer to you, your fellow citizens, do not give in to these provocations. Any taxes or congregations to the Pension Fund can be established solely by the laws of Ukraine. And if the government goes to crime and takes decisions that go beyond its jurisdiction, these criminals will be accountable to their own people and to the Ukrainian law. We also want to go to the IMF. We don't want you to provoke Ukrainian power into illegal decisions, first. And secondly, we urge world financial organizations not to force Ukrainian authorities to violate their own country's legislation. No relationship would be harmful to the country if they were built on breaking the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u20	Kirilenko Viacheslav Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u21	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “For Ukraine! ” Dear colleagues, honourable voters, there were a number of events yesterday that surely received and received a further resonance in society. They have to do with voting for the so - called anticrisis bill. I say so called because they could have been accepted as really anti-crisis, if they hadn't been presented in a form where the second month has been insisted by an active government led by Prime Minister Timoshenko. What happened? There has been a substitution of the concepts of crisis and the measures needed to overcome it. In principle, we stood and stood in a position that small businesses, small entrepreneurs, could not solve the pension fund issue. If we are to be abstracted from the populistic and the hysterical rhetoric of the acting Prime Minister, we should say the following. First. The pension fund still has a huge multibillion-dollar deficit. The 13 billion direct deficits covered by the State budget are 26 billion dollars for other special pension schemes, but they also come from a deficit. And another 626 million, that's the money that goes to the people who are on a fixed income tax. So those miserable half-billion dollars that the government could have received in addition by destroying small businesses are still not enough to deal with the current deficit of the Pension Fund. Instead, the price of such government activity would be simply gigantic. Because we would have, first of all, full output and shadow of those subjects of entrepreneurial activity that are in the simplified taxation system. And secondly, we would have had an increase in the number of unemployed registered, one and a half times, because the people who were broke by this government decision would have gone to the stock market and demanded unemployment assistance. Therefore, the “For Ukraine” group is very concerned that, despite the warnings that we have repeatedly made, the government has adopted this anti-business and anti-national law in the form of its decision at yesterday's meeting. Still, the matter returned to what we had repeatedly warned against. Two and a half times the size of a small enterprise. We have a question. Why is such an overpriced price not low and in this sense unprofessional activity of the government of Timoshenko? In view of this, the parliamentary group “For Ukraine” is now claiming. Despite neither the calls of the International Monetary Fund nor the calls of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, nor the calls of the President of Ukraine, nor the calls of any of the authorities in the country, we will not allow a small enterprise to be destroyed on the ground, as an active government plans to do. And our position on this issue will be constant. We'll take care of jobs for Ukrainian people who make their own living and pay their own taxes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u22	Popov Alexander Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u23	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! The heating season is ending in our country today. And I think we have a reason today to thank the people of Ukraine very much for the support they have shown during this period and for the professionalism and dedication they have been working with in recent years and especially in these emergency conditions during the heating season. The fact was that during that period the Government had made several serious mistakes that had exacerbated the housing and utility situation. And the first thing I would like to say is that the Government has allowed a significant increase in housing and utility prices to trigger this growth. For this reason, the population of Ukraine decreased by 20 per cent the fees for utilities consumed. Budget organizations were in a very difficult situation. By adopting the 2009 municipal budget, the public service deficit was clearly seen with the adoption of the document. To date, more than 500 million grevens are in debt to the budget, including the State budget for utilities. Our country does not have the right price policy. During the year that has passed, including this year, gas prices, electricity, are rising monthly. In regulatory policy, it is simply not possible to achieve tariff stabilization under such policies. It should also be said that if our Government were to deal with the issue of natural gas contractual relations in October or September, rather than the New Year or the Christmas of the Cross, we would have had a very different price for this very important energy source for communal energy. The Government has virtually completely renounced the financing of all public programmes that have been adopted so far in the area of housing and utilities. I must say that it is reported to the Government leaders that the gas consumed before Gazprom is fully accounted for. But let's see what the price is. Today, Ukraine's Petroleumgas has 34.5 billion loans, which ultimately generates this mutual account. What do we have, after all? We've had a heat-disengagement of entire regions. Lugansk was cut off from drinking water. This has never been the case in all the history of Ukraine. Even the European countries of Central Europe have suffered from such policies.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u24	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u25	Regrettably, I cannot express all the difficulties that the industry is facing today, but I say that the Government today has no clear answers to the questions, so what can we do to date? And I think it would be very appropriate today to organize a meeting at the Cabinet of Ministers, expanded together with the opposition, in order to develop a programme of action for the next heating season that would allow us to stabilize the situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u26	Vazievsky Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u27	Parliamentary Group “For Ukraine”, Vladimir Vezevski. Dear Ukrainians! I need to be clear about yesterday's vote on so-called anti-crisis laws, to make it clear to the citizens. If this is really anti-crisis laws, then logically, members of the coalition as one should vote for those anti-crisis laws. Instead, one of the so - called antichrist laws, 16 members of the coalition, did not vote in favour of the antichrist law. In the second so - called anti-crisis law, eight members of the coalition did not vote in favour of the anti-crisis law. Then the question is, even if the voices of the “For Ukraine!” group would join the so-called “vote for anti-crisis laws, could we decide those anti-crisis laws? No, of course not. What is more, if we are to solve a crisis in the state, we really need to propose laws that will solve one issue and that will not exacerbate other issues. Instead, when I talk to social experts, I can definitely say that the law number 4217, the government in question, I'm sorry, Suskevich, could be the document that would be worth taking into account and adopting in the first reading. If half of it were to be removed, which was indicated in the government, it could be used to provide consolidated support in this room. The bill, proposed by the government, 3521, clearly does not solve the crisis for the Pension Fund, but it does give rise to a crisis for the center of employment, for out of that, a million citizens who would either go into the shadows or simply quit the business that they are providing themselves and a piece of bread to their families today would go to the center of employment. And then the government would come to us with a new law that would have to be re-cut from someone to fill the employment centers with extra money, because half a million people would have to go to these funds. So I'm going to go to the government: if you want to have the support of a constructive part in this upper room, give constructive bills. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u28	Instead of the national MP Trinduk, Deputy Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u29	Dear colleagues, here many have just spoken and told how they care, you see, for small business and so on. Let's show the other side of the coin: let millions of Ukrainian citizens know that we have a category of people -- one and a half million people -- who pay for the Pension Fund every month for six dollars. It's called a small business. In this small business, millions of gas stations make money, supermarkets, movie theaters, and potter’s benches that sell tobacco. Millions of turnovers are registered there by 500,000 per person – this is called “small business”. Then, when they're 60, they'll come here to the Supreme Council and ask us with you and what they don't have. How can there be a pension if they don't pay for the Pension Fund? And they're going to ask us to pay them off at the Pension Fund. And the Pension Fund was paid by doctors, teachers, miners, agrarians, businessmen -- not small ones, but normal businessmen, who are in different factions. And these people have to do a little business. These laws have been in force for 15 years. I think 15 years of age, kids are growing up and VUZs are moving in, and we can't grow a small business in 15 years. It's bullying people who work hard, earn a penny, teach children, treat people, pay their small salaries, and a small business that's cool for millions is 6 bucks a month. And the government says 200 dollars is paid to the Pension Fund. And they raise it up, they say that little business in the shadows will go. He's been in the shadows for a long time, and the Pension Fund has a deficit. And those who don't vote for this, so-called, small business to pay pensions, they risk, collapse, bankrupt the Pension Fund. And tomorrow, millions of people who have spent their entire lives paying contributions to the Pension Fund will stop getting pensions. These are the results of a policy called small business support. With regard to Naftogazu, the government proposes: 7 billion grevens and Naftogazu to compensate him for the price he places on gas for the population. There's a way out of this one, either to compensate from the state budget, or to raise people's price for gas. The villagers use gas, they double, they're going to have to raise the price of gas three times. That's the consequence of not supporting government bills. In effect, the government is proposing to the Agrarian Fund that it be possible for farmers to buy fuel oil. You don't support this bill again. Why? So that they don't sow, so that they don't gather. I mean, they live by the principle: the worse the country is, the better it is for you. But it would be better for no one!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u30	Dear colleagues, in the speeches of the national MPs. [[B in m in s a l in]] One second, one second. The National Deputies of Ukraine raised questions that they asked for in the form of parliamentary inquiries. I will ask the Supreme Council's Office to respond to these speeches, with appeals to the law enforcement authorities, to the management of Kiev, to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, to the decisions of the Cabinet of Ministers, which are to be governed by the laws of Ukraine. I want to say that in this question, the Constitution of Ukraine foresees mechanisms for how, if any, the President of Ukraine and the courts should react. Obviously, it is not for the executive authority to decide matters that are governed solely by the laws of Ukraine under the Constitution. Now, please have a suggestion to consider the issues that are on our agenda for the plenary meeting today. Please sign up. National MP Koleznichenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u31	Please pass the word to Chechev Mikhail Vasilevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u32	Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u33	Dear colleagues, there was a genuine objective criticism of the inadequacy of the bills passed by the Government. And these bills probably do more harm than good. One could say that the opposition was critical because the opposition with the opposition was not saying otherwise. But when the majority does not directly support these bills, and not two people, but when almost 30 people do not have enough votes to vote on the coalition, it is important to seriously consider the Government's quality of the bills. It was therefore desirable that there should be no speculation as to what the Government was making. And I think that the sessional room will always vote in favour of those bills that benefit the country, but will never vote in favour of those bills that are detrimental to national interests.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u34	The Najdion People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u35	Please pass on the word of Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u36	Zibenko Peter Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u37	Thank you. The Communist faction, the first deputy head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, is the head of the Council of Veterans of Ukraine. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! There has been a sad mistake that we all need to correct together now. What are we talking about? In March of this year, a group of national deputies, such as Konovaluk, Cibenko, Graniewiecki, registered a draft decree for parliamentary hearings on the subject “On the social, medical and pension security of war veterans and the marking of the 65th anniversary of Victory in the Great Homeland War 41-45 years”. This document has gone through all the necessary procedures, there are all the conclusions, two weeks ago the profile committee has considered it, the more so that the next plenary week starts on May 12th, I urge you, Your Honor Alexander Volodymyrovich, to give an order to include this issue on Thursday and we are determined on the date of the meeting.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u38	I'll ask you to look at the level of readiness and if this question is ready, we'll put it on Thursday to include it in the schedule of meetings for Thursday. National MP Ungurian, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u39	Please pass the word to School Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u40	National deputy of the school.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u41	Thank you very much. I would like to stress, of course, first of all, that the bills that the President is proposing to support have a minimum support for the President's faction, because there are two options: either the President is cheating, or his faction is ignoring it if it doesn't look appropriate enough. With regard to the general situation, I would like to point out that recently, and let's say yesterday, the deputy of the faction of the Konovaluk region, asked UEFA leader Michel Platina for the rights of Lviv to hold the Euro-2012 football championship. Now, I don't know what his motives were, I'm sure he was meant to be, but this hatred for Western Ukraine, for Lviv, which is so radiated by the faction of the Party of the Regions, is a vivid emphasis.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, communication is over. About the schedule. Let us turn to the consideration of the scheduled meetings for today. A draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Federal Republic of Brazil on scientific and technological cooperation is under consideration. Registration number 0121. He reports as Deputy Minister of Education and Science of Strych Maksim Vitaliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u43	Highly Honourable First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council! The noble national deputies of Ukraine! The Federal Republic of Brazil is now one of the most dynamic in the science and technology development of the world, and then there are many possibilities for effective cooperation between Ukraine and the Federal Republic of Brazil in the field of science and technology. The agreement that is proposed for ratification today includes the following forms of cooperation: exchange of scientists, researchers, lecturers, exchange of scientific and technical information, holding bilateral scientific seminars, symposiums, holding international conferences and exhibitions, joint identification of scientific and technical problems, priorities for both countries, which will contribute to the application of scientific achievements in industry, agriculture and other sectors, the creation of conditions for the application of joint research and the exchange of experience and know-how, the protection of intellectual property. The noble national deputies of Ukraine! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this agreement was signed on November 16, 1999. In Brazil it has long been ratified. The Ukrainian Parliament has repeatedly been called upon, regrettably it has not been able to pass the ratification procedure every time. I would like to believe that today this Agreement will finally be successful because it is important for the development of Ukrainian science. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u44	Thank you, Maxim Vitaliovich. I invite the head of the Committee in the foreign affairs of Belarus, Oleg Grigorovich. Uh-oh! Dear colleagues! I'm sorry, Oleg Grigorovich, I'm sorry. We're going in full procedure. Dear colleagues! There's a question for someone in the deputy minister's office. ? Then I'd like you, Maxim Vitaliovich, please come back. Oleg Grigorovich, I'm sorry. We didn't vote, we're going in full procedure. There's a question for the deputy minister. Maxim Vitaliovich, please. Please sign up for a question to the deputy minister. Please explain. The Volinec passes on to Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u45	Thank you. Martinuk is a faction of Communists. Well, of course, Maxim Vitaliovich will probably find it difficult to answer my question and I don't claim his exact answer, but I want to determine this question the attitude of the government, the attitude of those who have the right to ratify the respective agreements. Please see your distinguished colleagues when this agreement is signed. In 1999! For 10 years, we can't, we can't ratify the document, so I guess we don't need it. Why are you proving to us right now that he needs to be supported if he's been rolling around for 10 years? The next document is about the same. I mean, it's not your claim, I understand you're working in the Cabinet of Ministers recently. But I want to draw the attention of those who listen to us today both in the Cabinet of Ministers and in the President's Secretariat that we can't be so intruding in the performance of our duties: either don't sign or don't submit for ratification in 10 years. Because it's been 10 years.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u46	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u47	Thank you very much. All I can say is that this deal is necessary. This treaty is already ratified in Brazil. As I said, it was introduced in the previous call of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Regrettably, each time that the term of office of the Supreme Council of the Third, Fourth, and Fifth Councils ended before the treaty was ratified. Please ratify it at last now.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u48	Thank you. Anatoly Matvienko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u49	Maxim Vitaliovich! Ukrainian Republican Party Council. “Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense” bloc. Maxime Vitaliovich, well, first of all, thank you for picking up and including the archives of things that Ukraine needs today, regardless of what they are in 1999. I understand that we have lost politically. If we don't ratify today, we're going to lose more politically and I'd like to encourage my colleagues to think because it's not the fault of today's government, not today's ministry. And to you, I'd like you to brief me. In addition to the political losses that we are getting, what are we really going to get from the ratification of this agreement? If possible, comment briefly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u50	The great Anatoly Sergiyovich, Brazil, is one of those nations that invests enormous money in the development of national science and technology. The implementation of bilateral programmes with Brazil for Ukraine allows us, in our difficult financial conditions, to absorb enough resources for the development of our science, I'm not talking about the specific sphere of space where Ukraine's cooperation with Brazil is also very promising.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u51	Thank you. People's deputy to Popescu's question.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u52	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Reverend Maxime Vitaliovich, as noted here, has been signing this agreement for 10 years. During this time, the Federal Republic of Brazil became one of the leading countries to produce high - tech biofuels. In case we ratify this agreement, because that's what it's been. Such a time has passed and new opportunities for cooperation have emerged. Is this agreement designed to work together in this field, especially because we have a problem of burning oil materials, a problem with gas, and other problems? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u53	Thank you so much for asking. Of course, yes, the agreement provides that authorized authorities in the respective spheres of both sides determine priorities and, of course, this is one of the potential priorities of our cooperation.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u54	Thank you, Maxim Vitaliovich. I invite the head of the Committee in the foreign affairs of Belarus, Oleg Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u55	Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Foreign Affairs has been careful to ensure that the collapses of the ratification laws are cleared. We turned to the Cabinet of Ministers, to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, to other authorities to raise all the agreements that have been signed, to inventory them and to resolve their fate. In addition, there are others who have suffered a long - suffering law. I think we need to do everything we can not to embarrass our glorious state. As far as this bill is concerned. The Committee on Foreign Affairs carefully reviewed the project and unanimously approved recommending that the Supreme Council ratify the bill. The goal is to develop the highest priorities for the scientific and technical cooperation of the two major states. Brazil is today a growing giant in South America. This is our market and this is our cooperation zone. We've already talked about space here, and we've talked about Petroz, where we can get rid of our industrial production. So there's no doubt that the development of bilateral scientific and technical cooperation is very beneficial for Ukraine. The Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority believes that this agreement can be ratified by the Supreme Council. In line with the conclusion of the Rules Committee, the bill is registered according to the requirements. There are no negative effects on the budget. Please support this ratification decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u56	Thank you, Oleg Grigorovich. No questions, Oleg Grigorovich? Are there any people who would like to discuss this document? You don't? Since there is no one to discuss, I ask for support from the Ministry and the Committee, which recommends supporting the draft law on ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Federal Republic of Brazil on scientific and technological cooperation. Draft law 0121. Please vote. [[10:52:20]] For 379 The deal's ratified. Dear colleagues, taking into account the wishes that have been expressed here, so that we don't look at the bills that have been coming up to us for 10 years, so that we can work on a reduced procedure and consider the bills more quickly. Then I'd like to respond to this proposal. Who's for us to go over the bills with a reduced procedure, please vote. [[10:53:00]] For 165 Decision taken. I am announcing for consideration the draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the United States on Cooperation in Science and Technology. The rapporteur is Deputy Minister of Education and Science of Strych Maksim Vitaliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u57	Honourable National Deputies, High Representative of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the United States Government on Cooperation in Science and Technology, was signed on 4 December 2006 by Prime Minister Viktor Fedorović Janukovic. The objective of this Agreement is to create the right conditions for the effective use of the scientific and technological potential of both countries to protect intellectual property, to strengthen the scientific and technological capabilities of the parties, to intensify and expand relations between the scientific communities of both countries, and to promote scientific and technological cooperation for peaceful purposes, and in particular to emphasize that they are of mutual interest and benefit. The scope of the Treaty is, as in the previous case, the exchange of scientific and technical information, the exchange of scientific and technical expertise, the holding of joint seminars, conferences, exhibitions, the training of scientists and technical experts, the sharing of scientific research, the sharing of international programmes. I would like to pay particular attention to the fact that the Agreement regulates in detail the aspects of the protection of legal intellectual property created by such cooperation. Given the importance of this Agreement for the development of Ukrainian science and technology, for those potential possibilities. In view of the potential opportunities that Ukrainian science and technology receive from a mutually beneficial partnership with the science and technology of such a powerful State as the United States, and in view of the fact that the intellectual rights of Ukrainian researchers will be adequately protected for the first time, please support the draft of this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u58	Thank you, Maxim Vitaliovich. Have a seat. I invite the head of the Committee in the foreign affairs of Belarus, Oleg Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u59	Dear National Deputies! The Committee on Foreign Affairs at its meeting carefully considered the bill and unanimously endorsed its adoption by the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a ratification law. The main purpose of this bill, as the deputy minister of education and science has already said, is to deepen cooperation and establish effective partnerships between Ukraine and the United States. Our national interest requires the protection of Ukraine's intellectual property, the strengthening of the scientific and technological capabilities of our producers of new technologies, know-how and the intensification of the links between Ukrainian scientists and the United States. The main scientific and expert office, after considering this bill, concludes that this agreement can be completely ratified. Ratification is also supported by the regulatory committee. Please support these recommendations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u60	Thank you, Oleg Grigorovich. Dear colleagues, we have the opportunity to discuss two-for-two against. Are you willing to make this deal? You don't? Then I propose to the committee to support the draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the United States on Cooperation in Science and Technology. [[Law 0122]] Please vote. [[10:57:44]] For 331 The treaty has been ratified. I am announcing for consideration the draft Law on the Ratification of the Singapore Agreement on the Rights of Trade Marks. [[0123]] For the report, please invite Deputy Minister of Education and Science Maxim Vitaliyovich Strihu.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u61	Honourable Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Honourable National Deputies of Ukraine! Ukraine’s draft Law on the Ratification of the Singapore Treaty on the Rights of Trade Marks was developed to implement paragraph 1 of the Parliamentary Hearings Recommendation “Protection of Intellectual Property Rights in Ukraine. Law enforcement and enforcement problems” approved by the Supreme Council Regulation of 27 June 2007. The proposed project provides for the ratification by Ukraine of the Singapore Trade Marks Treaty, which was adopted in Singapore on 27 March 2006 with the aim of harmonising existing rules, rules and simplifying procedures in the field of trademark protection. The treaty is accompanied by detailed rules on the right of trademarks relating to the regulation of any administrative requirements, questions or procedures relating to the contract and contains standard international forms of messages. It should be noted that the party determines for itself the language of these messages. It is also worth noting that contracts and rules are applied not only to obvious meanings, but also to all types of signs that may consist of signs according to the right of the contracting party and include formalities for the representation of all types of characters. In addition, in comparison with the Treaty on the Laws of Trade Marks, the treaty has expanded the types of means and forms of transfer of applications for signs and other information on the application, or the registration of signs that the contracting party may choose for itself. In particular, it can determine whether to accept a message on paper, in electronic form, or in any other form. Ratification of the treaty will have a positive political and socio-economic impact on Ukraine, as its contracting parties have already become the leading states of the world. And Ukraine's co-operation with these states will be able to put in place the only mechanisms for implementing legal norms in the area of intellectual property protection and the protection of trademark rights that will help under.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u62	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u63	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u64	Thank you, Maxim Vitaliovich. I invite the head of the Committee in the foreign affairs of Belarus, Oleg Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u65	Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Foreign Affairs at its meeting reviewed the bill and approved the decision to support it and recommend ratification to the Supreme Council. The Singapore Treaty on the Rights of Trade Marks has a direct bearing on the protection of Ukraine’s intellectual property. The purpose of this law, as the government's report already stressed, is to develop priorities and continue to make effective use of existing international rules, rules and procedures in the field of trademark protection. The main scientific and expert office has reviewed this bill and believes that the Singapore Treaty on the Rights of Trade Marks can be ratified by the Supreme Council. The Committee of the Supreme Council on Rules issued a warning on the procedure for the submission of a bill of ratification itself. This is true of both delays and so on. Please support and ratify this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u66	Thank you, Oleg Grigorovich. Your Honor, are you willing to make a statement on this bill? There are no wanters. Then I would like to support the committee's position and vote in favour of the draft law on the ratification of the Singapore Agreement on the Rights of Trade Marks 0123. Please vote. [[11:02:46]] For 382 The treaty has been ratified. Here we go to the draft Law on Ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe on the OSCE-Ukraine project on the disposal of melancholy stocks. [[liquid rocket fuel component]] I invite you to report to Ukrainian Defence Minister Yehanurov Yuri Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u67	Dear Mikola Volodymyrovich! Dear National Deputies! In the Ukrainian Armed Forces, excess components of liquid rocket fuel, consisting of 16.3 thousand tons, are stored. Melanches are kept on six sites of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, namely the Kalinivka Winnicke District, the Cengs of Ivano-Frankivsky, the Radehov of Lvivsk, Shevchenkov Kharkivsky, the Bila Church of Kiev and the Lubashivsky Odessa Region. The Ministry of Defence, together with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine and the Secretariat of the OSCE, is working to implement a joint project to address Ukraine's excess melancholy at the expense of donor countries. On March 5, 2008, a Memorandum of Understanding was signed between the OSCE and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the OSCE project Ukraine on the OSCE-Ukraine project on the disposal of melancholy stocks. On December 15, 2008, the OSCE launched an international tender for the disposal of melancholy; the volume of work for the ninth year under the first phase of the project is the disposal of 3.1 thousand tons of melancholy at the expense of the OSCE. According to the Ukrainian Ministry of Defence, the cost of disposal of the reported amount of melancholy will amount to about 6 million euros. According to the Memorandum, between 6 and 26 March 2009, two representatives of Ukraine took part in the work of the evaluation committee on which tender proposals were considered. Tender organizers are scheduled to complete the tender procedure in the second half of April of this year. With a view to initiating the practical phase of the disposal of melancholy in Ukraine, please approve the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the OSCE and the Cabinet of Ministers on the disposal of the stock of melancholy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u68	Thank you, Yuri Ivanovich. I invite the head of the Committee in the foreign affairs of Belarus, Oleg Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u69	Dear National Deputies! I have been honoured to represent the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly for many years as President of the General Committee, and today for several years as Vice-President. At the Parliamentary Assembly of the OSCE. I am proud to note that this document is the result of productive cooperation between the government of Ukraine and the OSCE. As reported by the Defence Minister, the OSCE and other donors allocate more than 6 million euros to the disposal of this terrible poison, which has totalled more than 16,000 tons throughout Ukraine, so there is no doubt about the timely ratification decision of our Supreme Council. The Committee on Foreign Affairs considered the bill and unanimously adopted decisions recommending that the Supreme Council ratify the bill. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council and the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on National Security and Defence have also concluded that the Memorandum of Understanding between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe on the OSCE project - Ukraine on the disposal of melancholy stocks can and should be ratified. The Rules Committee notes that the bill is registered in procedures under articles 90 and 92 of the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u70	Thank you, Oleg Grigorovich. Dear colleagues, they are willing to express themselves here. Please sign up. I remind you: two in, two in the opposite. Yes, please. There, we have 2 registered. The school of Andrey, the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u71	Thank you. I would like to say in the first few words, the very history of the bill, because we're talking about the disposal of nuclear, I'm sorry, rocket fuel, which, in principle, must have been done long enough. But in view of the constant delay in the proper ratification of the decision by the Supreme Council, this was delayed, with dozens of territories in Ukraine awaiting ratification. This is, of course, both Eastern Ukraine, and Western Ukraine, and Central Ukraine, suffering from what we have in our territory is a huge amount of heavy to process and very expensive to process rocket fuels. So I don't think there can be even a question of discussion here: we need to support a unanimous, huge number of votes -- and allow this danger to be removed from the country's territory. Everything is written and verified, there is the experience of the world and the countries of the former Soviet Union that have similarly disposed of rocket fuel. So I think this is just a matter of honor for the Supreme Council, our fellow countrymen, our fellow citizens, to remove this constant, permanent threat, which, unfortunately, is present in Ukrainian lands. So I think that as a result of Ukraine's presence in the Soviet Union, when we were armed here, trying to threaten the whole world, now with the help of a civilised world that didn't threaten us or anyone in principle, we have to get rid of the heavy legacy of the Soviet Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u72	Thank you. Taras Cranville.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u73	By fully supporting the ratification of that treaty and stressing that our committee, understanding all the significance, studied it in ultra-short terms, analyzed it and supported it, I ask that the rest of the time pass on to General Kuzmuk for a professional performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u74	Please, Alexander Kuzmuk, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u75	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this fuel was for air defence systems. We have 1,6300 tons. It's not just poison, it's extraordinary poison. But tragedy is different. The Ministry of Defence needs only 300 tons. Two million dollars is budgeted by the government to dispose of this fuel. So far, not a penny has been paid. And this money, first of all, should be for the Security Council's additional buildings. This fuel has only been stored for eight years. It's been going on since the '70s. The thickness of the tank walls instead of 8 millimeters is already 1.5 millimeters. So first, money, the euro, the OSCE must go to these very dangerous, damaged tanks. And secondly, get the government to fund the programme budget immediately for the disposal of the millenium. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u76	Thank you, Alexander Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, if there is no objection, we have some warnings about this document, colleagues have failed to “against” register. I think it'll be fair for us to listen to the warning in a minute. No questions? Then I give Alexander Blackmore my word and Michael Kosova after him. Alexander Chernomorov, please, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u77	I want to say a few words as a rocket fuel specialist in education. Dear colleagues! What is the basis of melancholy, an oxidator, first and foremost? Concentrated nitric acid. Why are the options for sending this product to the chemical industry and to the nitrous fertilizer industry not considered? What's the big deal? Secret status? So in the 56th year, there was a secret status. Everyone already knows the composition of this melancholy. That's why. It is clear that the desire to get money from someone for processing is always us, please, but to go in a rational way. Ask the chemical companies if they get free nitric acid, will they agree to it or not? Instead, we come up with memoranda, we approve drafts, and we wait a long time for the money from there to settle this whole case. Perhaps there will be another way to deal with this problem?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u78	Thank you. National MP to Kosovo, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u79	Mikhailo Kossov, "Club of Yulia Timoshenko", Party "Reforms and Orders". In fact, I would like to support what my predecessor said, for in the list of places where the melange is kept, Yuri Ivanovich was called the city of Radehov. Radehov is included, Yuri Ivanovich, in the 117th constituency in which I work on behalf of our faction. So I was there where much of this liquid fuel is stored. And I have to tell you what's on some.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u80	Yuri Ivanovich, there are wise suggestions here. Yuri Ivanovich, please. Don't stop Yuri Ivanovich from listening to the MPs' suggestions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u81	The metal thickness of the walls is already decreasing to about one and a half millimeter, so if it is immediately. Yes, so the strength reserve, according to experts, is for a maximum of two years, but.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u82	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u83	So first, we have to cut the deadlines immediately. And secondly, once again, mineral fertilizer comes out of that melancholy. So these mineral fertilizers can be processed, and already in Radeh, Polish specialists have converted much of this residue into agricultural needs. Thus, such moments must be taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u84	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. I think the Minister of Defense has listened to these proposals and will implement them. And I'm voting for a proposal by the committee to support the draft Law on Ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe on the OSCE-Ukraine project on the disposal of stockpiles of liquid rocket fuel. Registration number 0126. Please vote. [[11:15:37]] For 397 The deal's ratified. Dear colleagues, let's move on. We have the author of the following bill, Viktor Stepanovich Olijnik, made a statement in connection with the need to elaborate on the need to postpone the draft bill of the draft Law on Amendments to the Law on the Status of Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster to a later date. Will there be no denying that we should not consider it? There's a denial. No, colleagues, then we must put to the vote. Who's to postpone the draft law on the status of social protection for citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster? Please vote. [[11:16:40]] For-191 The decision is not taken. I am announcing a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl Disaster. [[on strengthening social protection]] The rapporteur is Ukrainian national deputy Olijnik Viktor Stepanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u85	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Your opinion is on the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. [[on strengthening the social protection of children in Chernobyl]] The bill provides for the extra mandatory provision of children of citizens who have suffered as a result of the Chernobyl disaster, placed in the first category not only in preschool facilities, but also in secondary schools, not depending on their knowledge. I want to remind you that this is about the children of the disabled, this is the category that suffered the most during this disaster. The bill also provides for the right to children of citizens referred to in the first, second, third category who have suffered as a result of the Chernobyl disaster, the right to enter outside the competition not only in public, as provided for by valid legislation, but also in municipal higher and vocational and technical institutions of education, and in vocational and technical training courses with compulsory fellowships and the payment of a higher scholarship. In fact, the bill proposes to balance the rights of Chernobyl children who are taught in public and municipal institutions. It should be noted that, to date, the right of entry outside the competition to state institutions, and I emphasize, the municipal higher education institutions of a particular category of citizens are provided with a number of Ukrainian laws, such as the Laws on the Fundamentals of Social Protection for the Disabled, on the Status of War Veterans, on the Guarantee of Their Social Protection and on the Law on Enhancing the Prosperity of Mining. The proposals set out in the bill are supported by the Chief Scientific and Expert Office and the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Use and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster. In view of the fact that the Chernobyl disaster has yet to come, I ask you to support this bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u86	Thank you, Victor Stepanovich. I invite the first deputy head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl disaster by Shershun Mikol Haritonović to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u87	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! The Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl disaster at its meeting on 24 December 2008 reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. This is about enhancing social protection, as well as the observations and suggestions that came at the time from the Department of Science and Technology, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Ministry of Education and Science, the Ministry of Finance. The aim of the bill is to strengthen the social protection of citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. The Ministry of Labour, in its conclusion of December 8, 2008, supports the proposed additions to the current law. The Ministry of Education and Science made observations and suggestions that could be partially taken into account when preparing the bill for second reading. The bill is not supported by the Ministry of Finance. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in its conclusion of 22 December 2008, notes that the first reading of the bill can be adopted on the basis of comments and suggestions made. The Professional Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl Disaster, to be adopted as a basis. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u88	Thank you, Mikola Haritonovich. I understand there's a need to discuss this bill. So I'd like to sign up, I'd like to remind you, two in favor, two in favor. Please show us who signed up. Yes, National Deputy Vasiliev. None. No, I can't hear. National Deputy Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u89	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I would like to emphasize that we will vote in favour of this draft regulation. And the parliamentary hearings we held, as we had traditionally held in anticipation of the anniversary of the Chernobyl tragedy, showed that practically problems were not getting smaller but growing. That's a first. Secondly, many, and the return of most of the earlier decisions, are not fully implemented by the authorities. Third. The legislation that is taking place today does not satisfy or resolve all the problems that Chernobyl has brought to parliamentary hearings. Next. Budget funding is declining, in many cases adequate medical care is not being provided, housing is not being solved, and vice versa it is becoming more complicated. I'm not talking about any more prosaic things there that have to do with their rest and nutrition. Therefore, the Company's faction, in favour of this project, once again warns that radicalism must be accepted.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u90	Thank you, Peter Mikolaiovich. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the committee's proposal to support the bill, to adopt a bill to amend the Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. Please vote. [[11:23:18]] For 312 Document accepted as a base. Then let the committee work and prepare for the second reading. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending the Law on Charity and Charity Organizations of Ukraine. [[new editor]] The rapporteur is the national deputy of Ukraine, Smityuh Georgiy Evdzimovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u91	Ladies and gentlemen, a bill of charity is being tabled for your consideration. Good activities play a major role in the realization of important social functions, primarily in the area of national culture, the preservation of its heritage, and the humanistic upbringing of the population. Yet, despite some achievements in this area, in our country, present - day national philanthropy is still developing quite slowly, naturally, and without the proper support of the State and the normative base. In Ukraine, adequate moral and social incentives for the development of philanthropy and mercenary activities are not enough, such as the award of State marks, the assignment of honorary titles, the engraving of a name, and so forth. Therefore, the current Law on Charity and Charity Organizations of Ukraine of 16 September 1997 requires, in my opinion, some improvement. The aim of the proposed bill is to create the right conditions for the progressive development of Ukrainian culture, the preservation, reproduction and protection of the cultural and historical environment, the aesthetic education of young people, the conduct of scientific research in the fields of art, theory and history, and the culture of Ukraine. The bill proposes to improve the definition and delineation of the concept of “blessing” and “mecenating” by direct activity. The other one. Identify persons who acquire mercenati assistance and introduce a new type of charities, mecenata organizations. Third. Ban the granting of charitable and mercenary assistance at the expense of government and local budgets. Four. To strengthen the guarantees of free choice by benefactors and metenates of direction and form of their activity, these directions are specified. In particular, forms of such activity are proposed to identify financial and material assistance, provide free services, organize and conduct charitable and mercenary actions, auctions, lottery tickets.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u92	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u93	the introduction of a contractual form of mercenary charity to improve the legal mechanisms for the provision of charitable and mecenary activities. Change in the territorial aspect of the organization's activities and optimize its implementation processes. The benefits and other incentives of government support will be increased for benefactors and patrons. In particular, it is proposed to introduce the title “Deserved Meccat of Ukraine” and “Deserved Benefactor of Ukraine”. Ladies and gentlemen, you have in your files the findings of the Ministry of Finance, where the main, so to speak, negative conclusion is that the law would seem to be in short supply of so-called VAT taxes. You know that this tax in Ukraine is as criminal or as opaque as it is today. So today, you know, it's not just the VAT that's coming back to about 17 billion. If the Ministry of Finance estimates that this law will reduce taxes, I feel that if such a tax is effective today and not in favour of Ukraine, it is not necessary to pay attention. So please support this bill in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u94	Thank you, Gregory Yudkomovich. I invite the head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality of Yávorovský Volodymyr Aleksandrovitch to the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u95	Dear parliamentarians and honourable voters! I want to bring to your attention that there is a charity bill in Ukraine, and its author is sitting here in the hall, Mikhailo Kosov. He, by the way, is preparing new amendments to this bill now, and we have a new bill by the national MP, Smitzh. I'm going to say right now that the subject itself is a topic of Europe, a topic that's high about how we should treat and encourage you, and actually grow up or generations, or some bulk of the community of benefactors who will benefit from it, that is to say, they will have some kind of benefits and so on. This is the way the whole world lives, and it has long been said, in fact, nearly 20 years in Ukraine says it would be good for Ukraine to move on to such a base. Because of this, the Committee on Culture and Spirituality took a friendly approach to the bill. This is a very good step, a very good sign for our society. We really offered to take him out for a session, but we could take him out on one condition. At the time, we had no financial expertise on what the Ukrainian budget would do. I think you've been given these documents by now, and I have, I have, I've got the opinion of the Ministry of Finance, and I'll be honest with you, I'm just freaked out. It's 70 billion dollars. It's actually the money, and the hole that's in the Ukrainian budget today, and that we're trying to recover from all the forces that it is, and from the International Monetary Fund and the internal resources, and so on. Because of that question, it's a very difficult question, I say again. So think about it, people's deputies, how to act, because just to adopt this bill today and to have -- again, I repeat -- the losses in the budget of 70 billion I don't know, honestly. All of my 100 percent.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u96	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u97	I'm done. With all my interest in breaking this line and having such a bill, but think about it, I don't think it's on time today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u98	Thank you, Vladimir Alexandrovich. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for a discussion, as a resonant bill. Two in, two in. Please explain.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u99	Please repeat the entry. It is said that the “yes” were not registered. National MP to Kosovo, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u100	Mikhailo Kosov, “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko”, “Reforms and Orders” faction. The reporter called my name because I am indeed the author of that law: charity and charity organizations - to which our colleague Smitsch today proposes to make adjustments. However, I am not here out of authorial jealousy. I want to say that I, too, Alexander Volodymyrovich, have amended this law, and they're moving from session to session, and they're on schedule for today's session, but somehow my colleague's project is standing and mine isn't. This is totally unacceptable from the point of view of the work of the Supreme Council, because there should be all the authors if the issue is being discussed. This is the first time. And secondly, my draft law was also discussed both at the level of the Ministry of Finance and at the level of our Committee on Financial Policy, Sergey Teryochina. And they made such a verdict at this stage, because these are, so our proposals relate to budget changes and very significant changes to the budget, so first to make, well, to find out this question about the government's financial policy. And then we'll talk about some other apps that apply to the purely humanitarian sphere of this law. I can't vote for this law today, and I urge all of us to think very carefully before we go to the adoption of such a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u101	Thank you. Skubaszewski Stanislav Valerianovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u102	I'd like you to pass it on to Smithu.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u103	Smudge Grigory Evdzimovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u104	Dear National Deputies, in view of the fact that there was very little need for this bill to be adopted, or to explain the need to adopt it for two minutes, I would like to say some lines to Mr. Yavorowski. Indeed, a decision was made on the committee: To recommend to the Supreme Council and the committee supported that point of view. I certainly don't want to use the law in force to be the author of a Kosovo colleague. At the same time, I emphasize that its amendments, or other deputies, may be made or may be adopted during the first and second readings. And this law, if the Supreme Council accepts it, will return to your committee, which Mr. Yavorowski is in charge. And it's going to make some adjustments, and then the hall is going to be defined. So I would ask, despite the fact that the main position of the Ministry of Finance today is that this money is supposed to go into the shadows, in fact, that money is allowing mercenati and benefactors to go into specific areas, in a particular region, for specific purposes. As always, you know that local budgets do not have what, the state budget does not always pay attention. Thus, such elements of an important part of our lives, such as culture, sports, medicine, and others, which can be used by individuals in a particular region, will reverse our efforts to develop local needs, address specific urgent needs. And I'm surprised by Mr. Yavorowski's statement in that part that he says the budget will be cut. But on the contrary, these costs will be channelled. This is the only option in the legal field, as it is accepted worldwide, in the legal order to direct these costs and solve regional problems. So I'm asking you to hand these functions over to regional businessmen, regional authorities, and these costs will be transparently channelled and worked for these needs, the urgent ones that are today.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u105	Thank you. Terjehoin Sergey Anatoliyovich. Terjehohin Sergey Anatoliovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u106	Thank you. You know, we have a category of law makers who like to use such beautiful words as charity, social protection, love and hope in the titles of laws. In fact, in such beautiful words, it is always one of Murphy's famous rules, which is: “Whatever people talk about among themselves, it’s always about money.” That's exactly the same thing in this case. The bill is completely confused by concepts such as philanthropy, such as mercenancy, such as sponsorship. It is granted the right to play in charities. And in general, I think the reporter rightly said that this bill is only for regional businessmen. We won't vote for him.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u107	The discussion is over. Replica, one minute, Yavorovsky Vladimir Alexanderovich Vladimir Aleksandrovitch may need to take his seat.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u108	I'm sitting on my own. I just wanted to clarify, summarize our discussion and clarify the position of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality. I repeat the committee’s view and feel that we must go to a world standard, and we must encourage the benefactors. I'm not talking about any minor technical flaws in this bill, and I'm going to report to the author that they could have been cleaned before the second reading. But once again, I want to say what we thought might be some millions of five, six, seven, eight. But when, and we understand very well that this is a procedure, that we should have a financial conclusion for every bill. We have this conclusion, this is 70 billion. That's why I'm talking again, today would be just a crime, taking these out of the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u109	Dear colleagues! It is on the basis of the draft Act amending the Law on Charity and Charity Organizations. [[Registration number 2571]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:38:18]] For 190 The decision is not taken. Is there an offer for re-reading? Please make a motion to re-read the draft Law No. 2571. Please vote. [[11:38:52]] For 203 The decision is not taken. The bill was not adopted. A draft Act amending the Criminal Procedure and Criminal Enforcement Codes of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[ensuring the protection of the rights of convicted persons in enforcement institutions]] Registration number 2151, reports Victor Dmitrovitch of Sweden.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u110	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! Dear National Deputies! Your opinion is a bill that can be described briefly as one that aims at humanizing criminal punishment and its enforcement. The purpose of the bill is to increase the protection of the rights of convicted persons in institutions by improving the conditions of detention of convicted persons, by establishing safeguards for the observance of the rights of convicted persons, by extending the powers of public control, by prohibiting discrimination against convicted persons, and by bringing the minimum living space to the sentenced person in accordance with European standards. In addition, the law proposes to amend the Criminal Procedure Code, namely: Article 156, which sets maximum terms for keeping the defendant in custody as a precautionary measure. That is, at the minimum, as provided for in the first article 156, two months remain. And the best way to do that is to bring in, that is to say, borderline size: for crimes of small gravity, up to six months and up to two years, in cases of serious crimes. With regard to those who are accused. Crimes committed that are punishable by life imprisonment are not limited. There are also anticipated changes regarding the creation of conditions for correcting and preventing new crimes by convicted persons and others. It is proposed to exclude the concept of “resocionalisation” of convicted persons from the Criminal Code of Ukraine, since such a purpose and the task of criminal law enforcement of Ukraine does not meet the requirements set out in the Criminal Code of Ukraine. There is a ban on discrimination against convicts based on race, color, skin, sex, language, religious, political, and other beliefs. The powers of public control are expanding. Next. As far as execution is concerned.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u111	Please, plus two minutes from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u112	With regard to the execution of punishments related to deprivation of liberty, it is estimated that new arrivals will undergo medical examinations to detect infectious and other diseases during 14 days. In general, the changes to the Criminal, Criminal and Criminal Codes are aimed at humanizing our criminal execution system, to extend the types of punishments that do not provide for the deprivation of liberty, and to the norms that are provided for in the Convention on Fundamental Rights and Freedoms of Man. The main scientific and expert management is proposing that the bill be adopted in the first reading. The Ukrainian government also supports this bill without notice. A committee on law enforcement at its meeting considered the bill and suggested that it be accepted as a basis. I would like to add that the Supreme Court, the Attorney General's Office, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the scientific, legal institutions of our state also support this bill. Therefore, honourable colleagues, I ask you to support the bill in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u113	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Let's write it down for two or two. Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u114	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Oleg Zarubinsky “Block of Lithuania”. You know, I've reviewed both the text of the bill and the conclusion on it of the Scientific and Experimental Authority, and there are many really positions where there are some inaccuracies and some inconsistencies. But listening to the head of a committee of profile and understanding what predominates, I think it's worth paying attention to, above all, to the positive. One of the positives has already been said. It is related to the fact that a person cannot be held forever when he is a defendant. In our own justice. No, we can't hold on forever. Perhaps it is convenient for someone who has no profession or professionalism or who takes bribes and does not want to investigate a normal case. Every person has the right to be free, including that person who is not condemned by the courts, who is innocent until now, he is innocent. And you scream or you iron out, and that's about tens of thousands of people. That's the first one. And the second moment is absolutely right, which is in the bill, which in another way forms a philosophy of what punishment is for. Resocialization is not enough. The new bill states: Preventing new crimes. That's the main goal, I think. And if it hasn't been prescribed before, it needs to be prescribed here. And the last. Here before me a colleague said that whatever a person is talking about, they always talk about money. It's a certain category, ladies and gentlemen, only about money. Thank God that there is another category in which other values or not only money are values. In that regard, I would like to draw attention to my own bill, which refers to the same thing as removing restrictions on the receiving of the convicted shipments, transmissions, and Banderoles. [[It's half a joke, of course.]] This is a very important bill, especially in today’s financial economics.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u115	Thank you, Oleg Alexanderovich. Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u116	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, on the one hand, demands and proposals are made in this particular draft law, the protection of the rights of those under investigation or convicted. On the other hand, it is said that this is a European norm. On the third hand, we have realities that Ukraine is in today. And of course it is not European realities when Ukraine is recognized as the most corrupt country today, and its power does indeed have a system of essentially governance, using it to enrich it. Today, we have the strongest evidence that there is a need to regulate and eliminate this political system because the business is drug trafficking, trafficking in women, and children. All of this today is what characterizes this problem. Crime has increased dramatically, and this crime has penetrated into all spheres of society and into virtually all regions and settlements. I believe that today we must radically change our attitude towards what is happening in society, starting with the fact that we must first and give a signal to society, that the same President who is committing the crime, Yushchenko, will also be responsible under the law before society. And when today, at the initiative of the Communist faction, which consists in initiating an impeachment procedure against President Yushchenko for crimes committed, Parliament refuses, but points out that there must be other issues, greater responsibility or, as in this case, the bill suggests that another part of society should deprive people who commit crimes, in this case we have the brightest proof that the political system is today producing and producing an increase in crime. Because of the political forces in power at first, as well as large capital, it originally creates prerequisites for corruption.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u117	Thank you, Peter Mikolaiovich. The discussion is over. It is on the basis of the draft Act amending the Criminal Procedure and Criminal Enforcement Codes of Ukraine, registration number 2151. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:48:37]] For 215 The decision is not taken. There are no suggestions. Do you have a second offer? I am voting on the proposal to re-read draft Act No. 2151 amending the Criminal Procedure and Criminal Enforcement Codes of Ukraine. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:49:21]] For 228 Decision taken. The bill is aimed at re-reading the first reading. A draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine, registration number 2390, is being announced for consideration. [[on criminal liability for abstinence of punishment]] Reported to the chairman of the committee, Viktor Dmitrovich Schwetz.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u118	Honourable People's Deputies, honourable Lord of the Voting Party, the bill has been drafted to remove gaps in the current Criminal Code of Ukraine. [[on the prosecution of persons for abstinence of non-custodial criminal punishment, regardless of the order in which they are assigned]] The fact is that today individuals are being punished only for avoiding the punishment imposed on them by judgment in general. The project proposes to amend articles 52, 389, 390 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, which are complementary to the extension of the articles not only to persons who have been sentenced to appropriate penalties but also to those who have been punished on the basis of article 82 of the Criminal Code in order to replace punishment with a milder penalty. To be more clear, when the punishment changes to a more mild one with regard to those who have served a portion appointed by the court on the basis of the judgment of the court of punishment, the judge makes such a procedural decision. This led to this conflict in the proper positions of the Criminal Code. A person who is replaced with a milder punishment has the opportunity to evade responsibility for avoiding further punishment, since punishment is not imposed on the basis of a judgment but on the basis of a judgment of the court. The main scientific and expert office is proposing this bill as a result of a first reading review. The Ukrainian government also supports this bill with some suggestions. This bill is approved by the Attorney General’s Office, the Ministry of Justice, the Supreme Court and many scientific institutions in the country. On June 10, 2008, the Committee on Legislative Protection decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of the bill as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u119	Thank you, sit down, please. Are there people who want to sign up for a discussion? You don't? It is put to the vote for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine, registration number 2390. [[on criminal liability for abstinence of punishment]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:52:47]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. A vote is taken on the proposal of the Ukrainian National Deputies to re-read draft Law No. 2390. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:53:17]] For 201 The decision is not taken, the bill is rejected. By factions, please: The Party of Regions – 1, "Club of Yulia Timoshenko" – 149, "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" – 32, communists – 0, "Clocus of Lithuania" – 19. The draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, Guaranteeing Their Social Protection, is being announced for consideration, reports Sanchenko Andrija Vilenović, please. [[Registration number 1106]]
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, could I have your attention for a moment? This law applies to 240,000. Our citizens are 81 years of age or older. They clearly deserve our attention. What is it? In 93, the Law on the Status of War Veterans and the Guarantee of Their Social Protection entered into force. Under this law, those who worked in the rear are like those who participated in the war. You and I have a situation where people who do. At the time of the end of the Second World War, i.e. at the age of 18 on 2 September 45, there are certain benefits under the Children of War Act. Some of these people, who, without being an adult, fought and worked in the rear accordingly, supported these events in life by certain documents and had the status of a war participant. Those who were over 18 years of age at the age of 18 at the end of the Second World are either members of the war or those who worked in the rear because in those days, thank God, the Tunisians, so to speak, were not in the country. And the situation was that those people who fought and had the right certificate and benefited from the benefits, and those who worked in the back had to collect numerous testimonies, testimonies, and, in fact, testimonies of their peers, many of them, unfortunately, today. They are no longer alive, and therefore these people are forced to beat the thresholds of archival institutions, to collect testimonies in order to prove the obvious fact. I'll do it again. Citizens who were 18 years of age at the time of the end of the war.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u121	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u122	Whether they were fighting or working. Thus, it is a matter of simplifying the process of establishing the status of a party to the war. It's not an extra benefit, these people have been entitled since they were 93 years old. By the time we registered this law, these people were 876,000, today there are 240,000. 640 wasn't waiting for us to join you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u123	Zybenko’s report. Peter Stepanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u124	Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! The committee considered the proposed bill as early as January 2008. It is designed to make it as easy as possible to obtain the status of a member of the war for citizens born on September 2, 1927 and older. In fact, it's about getting a member of the war for the citizens of this age group on the basis of their own statement, which will present the facts of their work during the Great Homeland War. Of course, there is a positive attitude, and there is a negative. What I mean is that the positive thing is that these changes to the basic law remove an insurmountable obstacle to this status. What I mean by that is that, in order to get this status, a person has to provide at least mediocre data on the fact of his work during the Great Homeland War. As you can see, the archives are not preserved, the witnesses are also sad, and there is a problem. On the other hand, this rule reminds me of the widest gates that open the way for this status and those to whom it should be granted, and those to whom it is granted, obviously, do not need to. So I would like to say that the committee members had some doubts about the need to support this document, but I would like to say that the majority of the members of the committee voted in favour of the bill and suggested that it be adopted in the first reading. Although, once again, there are benefits, there are downsides, and there are doubts as to the appropriateness of adopting this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u125	Thank you, Peter Stepanovich. Is there a need to discuss? Let's sign up for a discussion, please. Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u126	Dear colleagues, I think this is one of those bills that can unite the session hall in a vote. And we should certainly thank our colleague Andrew Vilenovich Senchenko for this bill, but I want you to, well, this should be a lesson for us in general. When we adopted a bill on children of war, some politicians were keen to enjoy it and were introduced into it. I remember our committee’s absurdity when one of the benefits was paid: A child of war has the right to enter the U.S. free and extracurricularly. Well. So today we see something different, really, 27th birthday year, 1927 birth year -- they're not children of war, they're also in occupied territory, and I think the MPs who have a majority district, you've encountered it a lot when we're writing our requests to that village council, and that village council is long gone, and the district center has already disappeared out there in the deaf woods, and so on. I think you can vote for this bill in the first reading and I'll explain why. There's this, there's this warning, whether it's a suspicion to make it impossible to issue such evidence, or whether it's putting such people on local district, district social security, we're going to have to write this mechanism out. As a whole, they certainly need to be supported. In this case, Ukraine’s national deputy, Senchenko, is certainly right. I propose and urge the session room to support this bill. It will certainly help to strengthen the social protection of the most disadvantaged of our people, the older we are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u127	Thank you, Jaroslav Mikhailovich. The discussion is over. The draft Law on Amendments to the Law shall be put to the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, he is a representative of a faction that has not been registered for discussion, and he is entitled to one minute under the Rules. From the FACT, Oleg Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u128	Dear Alexander Mikolaiovich, dear colleagues, this morning we decided not to vote in favour of this bill on the faction. And I am now turning to our faction and to the leadership of the faction: not to support this bill. It was absolutely correct to say that this bill allows for the status of a war participant to anyone, even a police officer. And he's going to write a statement and he's going to be a member of the war. And there's no need for any evidence, no witnesses, no evidence, nothing. Yesterday he hanged people -- today he's a warlord, and he's getting help from the state. You can't vote for this bill. In addition, we have a budget of 12 billion dollars this year to help wartime participants. Financing is only 7 billion. When we vote in favour of this bill, we're still spending a few billion more on a budget that's still not being implemented. It's pure water populism. So I urge you not to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u129	The draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, Guaranteeing Their Social Protection, registration No. 1006 is put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. Voting as a base. [[12:03:02]] For-161 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 34 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u130	Please invite the national deputies to the session room. A draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Added Cost Tax is being announced for consideration. [[concerning the refinement of tax transactions]] The rapporteur is Ukrainian national deputy Prasolov Igor Mikolaiovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u131	Dear Nikolai Vladimirovich! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! You have before you a bill amending the value added tax Act. What, then, will be the result of the amendments proposed by the bill? First. They will establish an ambiguity in the administration of the value added tax, which is not available today. Second. Equal conditions will be placed on all non-State pensioners and financial markets, namely custodian banks, asset management companies and pension fund administrators. The existing inequality is unfair to non-State pension fund administrators who are the only institutions that pay value added tax from their services. And last and foremost. By adopting this bill, we will do good for our pensioners. Today, VAT payments are falling from pension accounts. At the same time, the introduction of the pension account is essentially no different from that of the registrar. And keeping a current or deposit account in a bank is an operation where VAT is not taxed. According to the Ukrainian Tax Administration, the amount of VAT that exists today amounts to about 380,000 bracelets per year. The Chief Research and Expert Office believes that the bill can be adopted on first reading. Dear colleagues, I ask for the support of Bill 1113. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u132	Terjehohin Sergey Anatoliyovich, please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u133	Dear colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Tax and Customs Policy at its meeting on February 6, discussed the draft law of Ukraine amending the Ukrainian Law on Tax Added on Transactions Taxation No. 1113, submitted by the People’s Deputies Prasolov and Voropejev. At a meeting of the Ukrainian National Deputies, members of the Committee commented on the proposed standard and stressed the need for investment funds to be included. In addition, exclusion from the administration of non-state pension funds creates discriminatory conditions in relation to the administration of state pension funds that will be created at the stage of the development of the second level of the accumulation of the war pension system. So we're going to have to take these nuances into account when we're doing the second reading. The Chief Scientific and Expert Administration of the Supreme Council's Apparatus notes that the bill can be based. In view of the above, the Committee recommends that the Supreme Council adopt the draft law as a basis. And I'd like to add that not only is it technical. This bill is not just a technical bill that puts all financial market entities in the same position. But, in fact, it affects the size of the pension payments to non-state pension fund participants. We can't have a situation where we assume a deposit in a bank is not taxed on VAT. And the pension contribution in the part that goes up to 5 percent for the administration of the Pension Fund is taxed by VAT. And one more thing. This standard is fully in line with the 112th European Union Directive, to which we are trying to adopt our internal legislation. So, according to the committee, the basis for this project can be taken. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u134	Let's sign up for a discussion, please. There is no part of the discussion if you want to make a presentation. But there is such a desire for a deputy minister, Mr. Fudashkin, if there is no objection to the session room, we can give him that opportunity. Is there a denial? None. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u135	The Ministry of Finance considered the bill and did not support its adoption. In this case, there is an increase in the tax rate, i.e. the exemption of administrators from paying the tax on the added value. This is not about the inclusion of pension contributions that we actually have today are exempt from the value added tax, namely the services provided by pension fund managers to exempt them from the value added tax. This increases the amount of tax benefits added to the value and will result in the loss of the state budget. Please don't support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u136	Thank you. I cannot allow, unfortunately, Sergey Anatolyevich, because you voted in favour of the short procedure. And now we've got it. The faction of the Yulia Timoshenko delegates the authority of Sergey Anatoliyovich in connection with the fact that the faction has not been registered. Please. Teryohin Sergey Anatolyevich one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u137	Yeah, we have an interesting rule. The only thing I would like to say, dear friends, is that in this case the Ministry of Finance is deeply wrong because it is not a relief. The VAT can't be on financial assets or on money. I would advise the young Deputy Minister of Finance to study the 112th European Union Directive more closely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u138	The draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Value Added Tax is put to the vote. [[concerning the refinement of tax transactions]] [[Registration number 113]] I'd like to make a statement. [[12:42:09]] For 133 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. A draft Act amending article 147 of the Civil Code of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on the report of the intention to sell the share in statutory capital]] [[Registration number 1179]] A report by Miroshnichenko Yuri Romanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u139	Dear voters, dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. Now, dear fellows, we are considering a bill that I am the author of. This bill is very simple, it's mostly procedural. This is the 147th article of the Civil Code, which gives us a mechanism for redistribution of particles in a statutory society with limited liability. It now provides that the priority right to acquire a share or full or incomplete share of its participants, social colleagues, is vested in existing founders. But how to do that is not the case. And what I am proposing in my bill is that these were the petitions of many judges when the issue is resolved. The person who sold his share claims that he informed his colleagues of the intention of alienating. And colleagues who are members of the association say that we did not know about it. In fact, it is suggested that only one news should be made that the person who wants to sell is sending a message if the other is not provided in the company’s own charter. So they can change this norm and this requirement if it's prescribed in the statute. If not, at least he has to send such a letter officially with a message -- if people are willing to acquire it, they have to realize their right if they're not ready to buy it, so he sells it to third parties. It's a simple bill. While there is a decision by our committee to recommend that it be approved as a basis, given that there are literally three words proposed, it can be voted on and adopted as a whole. I'm asking you to identify yourself. And of course, as the author of this bill propose to approve it in general, because this bill organizes the process of moving ownership into closed, oh, limited liability societies. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u140	Thank you, Yuri Romanovich. Please sit down. Are there those who are willing to share in the discussion? Let's sign up, please. Kosov Mikhailo Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u141	Mikhailo Kosov, “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko”, “Reforms and Orders” faction. Dear colleagues, Your Honor Yuri Romanovich! And the problem that you've proposed to our solution is not only about limited liability societies, but it's about, unfortunately, all of our business in general. Because, let's say, we've got Alexander Slobodan sitting here, who's been through this story, let's say, on Obolona. In addition, similar situations were experienced by the pharmaceutical company Darnica. As for, let's say, similar societies defined by Yuri Romanovich, I have in the constituency in the Vote of the Desert region agro-firm "The Hangout", in which the peasants, well, I don't know how, but sold a share of their shares on the side, and then on the basis of these sold shares outside the known other members of the Society, there were elementary raids on the enterprise. Hence, it is essential that the person who wants to sell his share of the shares inform the other members of the company that he wants to conduct such an operation. And then to predict that a limited liability society or, more simply, an enterprise had the right to buy these shares in the first place. Otherwise, we will not be able to cope with such a shameful phenomenon as the raiding that is carried out in such a way. So I think the project needs to be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u142	Thank you. Verni Dubov Ivan Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u143	Dear colleagues, if the author of the bill were not offended, I would probably call it technical change. This is not going to change the bill, it's going to change the order of application of these laws that already exist. So I urge all MPs to vote for this, it will be right, it will have to be done. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u144	Thank you. The discussion is over. The adoption vote is based on the draft Law amending article 147 of the Civil Code of Ukraine on the report on the sale of shares in statutory capital, registration number 1179. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:48:34]] For 363 Decision taken. During the presentation of the project, a proposal was made for adoption as a whole. Is there a denial of national MPs? There's a denial, I see. I'd like the committee to prepare the draft law for the second reading. A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the determination of the jurisdiction of land affairs is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 1047]] Mishchenko Sergey Grigorovich, head of the committee, reports. I understand that you are the author of this bill, but you have not ceased to be the head of the Committee on Legal Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u145	Thank you, thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues, citizens of Ukraine! For your consideration, one of the anti-residering laws is presented. You know that one way to capture a foreign land is to make inadvertent decisions by the courts, and most of the decisions are made not at the site where the land is located, but in general in other areas. Yes, the raiding of the mass in Ukraine, and they're mainly targeting ordinary Ukrainian citizens, the peasants. I'll only bring one fact. You can all see, when you're going to Borispol Airport, there's almost two years' worth of fake Ukrainian citizens, the inhabitants of the village of Happy. What are some of the courts that have not been judged in favor of the raiders? These are both Lugani courts, and Poltava courts, as well as land courts, and many other courts. And where is the earth? In the Kyiv region. I would like to point out that tomorrow the Supreme Council will make a decision regarding one of these judges, agreeing to his arrest and arrest, which the villagers of Happy Village chose by their decisions. But it took almost one year to reverse the judge’s decision. And that's by my direct intervention. But a dot is not yet established by another decision of the courts, and people will stand until they return to their land. This law awaits thousands of deceived citizens not only in the village of Happy, which has not become happy today but also throughout Ukraine. It had to be adopted another year, because the law was registered a year and a half ago. So, dear fellows, I implorely ask you to uphold this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u146	Thank you, Sergey Grigorovitch. Please report from the committee. Pritika Dmitry Mikitovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u147	Dear National Deputies! Sergey Grigorovitch highlighted both the full relevance of the topic and the need to make some changes to existing legislation. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Justice considered, at its meeting, a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the determination of the jurisdiction of land affairs brought by the Ukrainian People's Deputy, registration number 1047. The bill is designed to remedy the shortcomings of Ukrainian procedural legislation in determining the subordination of land relations. The project is proposed to supplement the Ukrainian Code of Procedure, the Civil Procedural Code of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Judiciality, with positions that provide for the consideration of land affairs at the point of arrival of land rations, and the land is short - lived. There are proposals, comments by the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court of Commerce, the Supreme Administrative Court, which also support this bill in principle. There is the conclusion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, which considers that the proposed bill is appropriate for the first reading to be based on the following comments and suggestions. After considering the bill and the expert conclusions, the committee decided to recommend a draft law to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and to adopt it in the first reading. [[Registration number 1047]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u148	Thank you, Dmitri Mikitovich. Have a seat. Please. Let's sign up for a discussion. Mr. Sergey Grigorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u149	Dear colleagues, I thank the committee and thank the Supreme Council for the positive conclusions. I just want to ask you, Alexander Volodymyrovich, that if we accept him on the first reading, we will give the commission to the committee: after a brief procedure to consider him for the second reading, so that we will not wait for him to come into force for another year and a half. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u150	Thank you. Crnowil Taras Viacheslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u151	Dear colleagues, it is certainly necessary to adopt this legislative act urgently. And it is a pity that his acceptance was delayed for so long. The issue of territoriality in any case in the courts has long been a matter of maturity. Obviously, in a land area where we already see situations where people are ready: some -- to end their lives by taking away such a way, especially because of the method of changing the territory of the “land”; others are willing to go with the villas to those who took this land from them -- will encourage this issue to be first settled in land issues. And I, by clearly supporting the idea of the immediate adoption of this project -- in my opinion, personally, it could probably be accepted as a whole -- nevertheless, I would like to point out that land-related and land-related considerations are obviously not a sufficient step. Having voted in favour of this law, we need to go back to making the principle of territoriality sacred in all matters, because today our fellow MP mentioned the situation with the agro-company Hanging: there were questions and questions of shares and so forth. When either the Mariupli or the Berdian court considered the question of an enterprise in Lviv, not even giving a message to people who were interested, this is a picture of our lenient approach to such a definition of territoriality. Territoriality can only be changed by the Supreme Court's decision in the event that there are serious threats to the influence of the court on the ground, it must be an extraordinary act. In all cases others, where property disputes go, first of all land, we have to confirm that. But in general, any property dispute has to be resolved directly in the courts. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u152	The discussion is over. I'll bet you a vote. Ah, the faction that didn't participate, Communist Party, one minute, Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u153	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich! Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, in fact, we can only express regret that this bill has come so long, quite necessary, into the session room. In general, I would like to take this opportunity to point out that we have similar examples of netting and quite a lot of it, that not always do the profiling committees take the bill seriously. They don't have all the planning to consider bills and for years they, excuse me for such a non-parliamentary word, are rolling on committees. Now the second problem, I'm completely in solidarity with Taras Blackwall, is that we don't just have to talk selectively and raise questions about land relations, territoriality, their consideration. Any question, any question, whether it's property, or whether it's other problems, should be considered only at the place of residence. Because each of us knows exactly what ends up, what decisions are made between us.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u154	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u155	That's why the bill needs to be supported. But I'm going back to that idea. I think that the committee of profile, whether or not the author of the bill should take the initiative not only to ask land issues, but all issues are dealt with exclusively at the place of residence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u156	Thank you. The adoption vote is based on a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the determination of the jurisdiction of land relations cases. Registration number 1047, please identify yourself. [[12:58:29]] For 373 Decision taken. During the discussion, a proposal was made: Adopt a decision to shorten the deadline for preparing for the second reading of the bill. I'm putting this motion to a vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:58:58]] For 334 Decision taken. A draft Act amending the Law on Anti-Doping Control in Sports is being announced for consideration. Registration number 2753. Victor Petrovich Corge reports.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u157	Dear leaders of the Supreme Council, honourable deputies! Regrettably, during the rapid growth of modern technology, the achievement of high sporting results is not always based on the rules of honest sports and long - term grueling training, and in some cases it is a complex interaction of banned substances and methods. It should be noted that the current law, adopted in 2001, contains only five articles and does not fully take into account the current trends in domestic and world sports. And most importantly, the law was adopted before our country's introduction to the so-called Paris conference and the adoption of the Copenhagen Convention on the World Anti-Doping Code. For the first time, the bill was based on conceptual guidelines for the organization of anti-doping control in sport. An organizational structure has been arranged for individuals or animals who may be involved in drug testing. In addition, the working conditions of the anti-doping service, order and regulations have been defined. The bill also provides for the first time responsibility for the use, motivation and promotion of banned substances and methods. In particular, I want to draw attention to the conclusion of the Scientific and Experimental Authority, which marks two, in our view, principled warnings that we do not agree with. The first is that the State seems to be taking over the anti-doping function. I would like to point out that with a view to ensuring proper State control over the distribution of this extremely dangerous phenomenon of providing constitutional guarantees on human life and health, we really propose, at a national level, to create an advisory, I stress, body, National Council for Combating Doping. It's because the problem of the fight against doping goes far beyond the powers of a single central authority such as Minsport. In addition, Article 7 defines the rights and duties of the Advisory Body, which submits for approval the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u158	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u159	Submits an appropriate programme for approval by the Cabinet of Ministers, presents an annual report on the implementation of prevention measures, warning and non-application of doping in sport and its fight against it. In addition, the functions of the State are represented by the National Anti - Doping Center, which prepares such a program of prevention and appropriate research and analysis and has already undergone national accreditation. The second warning of expert management is that this should be done on another fundamental basis, as defined in the International Convention on Doping. And it is in the second project article that it is based, including on international treaties and agreements. Dear colleagues! The danger posed by today's dangerous trends in human health from drug use can be compared with drug use, HIV-AIDS, and other dangerous negative phenomena in society. That's why in the bill we're strengthening state control and insisting on developing an appropriate drug control program. We strongly believe that the adoption of the draft law will ensure proper control over the detection, warning and use of prohibited substances and methods in sports. Please support our offer and approve the project in the first reading and also because we have less than a year before the next Olympics in Vancouver. Thanks for the support, we're counting on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u160	Thank you. The report is a national deputy of Ukraine, deputy head of the Committee on Family Affairs, Youth Policy and Sport and Tourism, Elbrus Soslanovic Tedeyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u161	Your Honor! Dear colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Family, Youth Policy, Sport and Tourism, at its meeting on 8 October 2008, reviewed the Act on the Amendment of Anti-Doping Control in Sport, submitted by the Ukrainian People's Deputies Bacheva, Korž, Safiulin. [[new editor]] Registration number 2753 10.07.2008. The Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council, on first reading, that the draft Act amending the Law on Anti-Doping Control in Sport be considered and adopted as a basis. I would like to say that the law adopted eight years ago is unfortunately not in line with the modern development of technologies that have recently been used actively in sport in the highest achievements of the world's leading countries. The aim of the development of a new project is to create the necessary legal institutional and economic framework for further active activities in the implementation of anti-doping control in sport. The bill consists of five sections. It contains 23 articles, final provisions. The bill formulates terms and lays down the basis of Ukrainian legislation on anti-doping control in sport. The organizational structure of anti-doping control and related services has been streamlined. Taking into account Ukraine's international obligations, the project provides for the creation of appropriate conditions for the participation of public authorities, officials, enterprises and organizations, irrespective of the form of ownership, and for the identification and monitoring of the use of and handling of doping substances and methods. The project is proposed for the first time to grant the right to protection against coercion to the use of doping substances and methods guaranteed by the State and granted on the basis of the rights and freedoms of the individual in the cases and forms defined by the bill and the anti-doping rules. The adoption of this law will ensure that the necessary legal and institutional framework is established to identify and prevent and monitor use.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u162	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u163	I'm done. Thank you. The Chief Research and Expert Office has made several comments and proposes to send a draft for finalization. The Committee is of the view that all comments will be taken into account in the second reading. And the Cabinet of Ministers generally supports the bill. Please consider the bill on first reading and accept it as a basis. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u164	Thank you, Elbus Soslanovich. Let's sign up for a discussion. National Deputy School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u165	Of course, I would like to stress that we need to support this bill, it will solve the problems that we often face, which are often in the sport of high achievement, when it can harm the health of a sportsman using the right drugs. And please pass on the word Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u166	Dear colleagues, I wanted to support my colleagues who raised the current problem and to say that there are two, two objectives that are extremely important. One goal is to organize and prevent this problem in domestic sports. Another goal is our ability to compete with world sports. The point is that over the last period we've been so far behind in this topic from our competitors in the world, which is sometimes possible and abuse in this system of coordinates, because we can't really confirm whether we can't really issue a warning about those or other positions where, for example, our athletes are being accused, we don't have any tools or mechanisms or the ability to say that, for example, for the purpose of unfair competition, we're being made in relation to our athletes. So, of course, we need to help the Ministry. Because, as you can see, there are two very important institutions here. We reinforce the status and importance of the national anti-doping centre and clearly describe how the National Council for Doping works. The National Council will be the coordinating body formed by Kabmin from all the representatives involved. And I think that's exactly where our right-hand science expertise says that we're settling the quality of the problem of the activity of public organizations. But it doesn't make sense. Because it's about institutions that should be part of state policy. So, of course, this should be prescribed in the law. If we don't make it in the law, no one will do it. That's why I'm supporting this bill. And I'm saying, here's a representative of the Ministry, and our profile committees, so that we don't, as usual, do when we take the first reading, and then we wait another year to wait and prepare for the second reading as soon as possible. In general, a new draft of the bill was adopted. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u167	Karpuk Vladimir Georgievich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u168	Vladimir Karpuk, deputy group “For Ukraine”. At its meeting, the Health Committee also considered bill 2753 on anti - doping control in sports and identified it as essential for adoption in Ukraine. After all, the list of substances that are used as doping in sports is now more than half a thousand. And this list is expanding very rapidly every year. We see that many countries are successful because of pharmacologists. Thus, it has become such an almost winged expression that the achievements in sports are not as high as the achievements of the trainers, but the achievements of the pharmacists. Regrettably, the unthinkable use of doping, especially among young athletes, has led to a deterioration in their health and, at times, to disability. And we know about the sad experiences that have taken place with Ukrainian athletes, when they've either been motivated to take drugs without being held responsible. So really important positions about what's being created, like the Advisory National Council on Doping. And I think it's pretty important. That there is a responsibility not only for the use of doping in sports, but also for its use, which will be as a warning to those coaches who want to achieve honorary titles or rewards by the way athletes are disabled. Therefore, we really need to work on this law, speed up its consideration in the second reading of the Main Committee and the Health Committee, and ensure that it is accepted as a whole. This will be a kind of guarantee of abuse in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u169	The discussion is over. Don't the factions insist that they didn't participate in the discussion? Don't insist. It is based on the draft Act amending the Law on Anti-Doping Control in Sports, registration number 2753. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:11:13]] For 380 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we still have several issues on the agenda for today that we need to include in the agenda, because they were not foreseen for consideration at the current session. And today we want to look at them and make decisions. In line with the recommendation of the Conciliation Board, I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda and to adopt decisions on draft laws amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine on the implementation of an external independent assessment of the quality of education and establishing responsibility for violating the procedure for carrying out an external independent evaluation of knowledge and the use of its results. Registration numbers 4241, 4241-1. I'd like to make a statement. Integrating in the daytime. [[13:12:25]] For 230 Decision taken. Bills are included in the agenda and will now be considered. For the consideration of Bill No. 4241. I invite you to report to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Polodimir Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u170	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! Dear National Deputies! An extremely important bill. I would just like to remind everyone, all the factions, all the people's deputies, the legislation in force, the Constitution of Ukraine, the Education Act of Ukraine lay down a strict rule that the principles of education and education are determined exclusively by the laws of Ukraine. [[Article 92]] And the definition of state policy in the field of education also relies on the Supreme Council of Ukraine. That is, everything, including the external independent evaluation of knowledge of the Ukrainian Education Laws, must be governed by laws. That's the point of this law, the bill. If we want to control, monitor and define politics, not instructions, not orders, not decrees of those or other implementing bodies, we need to adopt this law, especially because if we don't adopt it, the lack of legislative regulation of this good idea that came about back in 1992 was developed by various decrees, orders, decisions of the Cabinet of Ministers, including the Cabinet of Ministers of Viktor Yanukovich in 2004, then we can't, we'll only create chaos and we'll create uncontrolledness of this process. So the purpose of the bill is to standardise relationships in the field of independent assessment of the level of knowledge of graduates of public education institutions and to adopt them into higher education institutions on a competitive basis according to the level of knowledge and skills, regardless of the form of the property of the educational institution. There is a standard: equal access to education. In this context, the bill is proposed. This bill, first of all, and in its essence, and this is practically the majority of the members of our committee, not practically, but most of the members of our Committee on Science and Education, we have to foresee criminal, administrative responsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u171	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u172	I'm done. The procedure itself. It is therefore not supported by the educational community, the Academy of Sciences, and the Academy of Pedagogical Sciences. And I ask everyone here today to support our committee's bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u173	Thank you. Have a seat, please. The alternative bill 4241-1 is reported by Ukraine’s national deputy Kirilenko Viacheslav Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u174	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “For Ukraine! ” Dear colleagues, the “For Ukraine!” MP, introduced a bill aimed at further developing an external independent evaluation system. We are convinced that making such a decision is now absolutely in time, given that, unfortunately, it is the only systemic reform that is currently taking place in government and government. So now the situation with external independent evaluation is that the normative basis for this year is definitely there. But it is built in such a way that much, if not almost everything, depends on the good will of the Ministry of Education and the personal minister of education. The absence of clear legislative rules in the current legislation on the obligation of external independent evaluation leaves a chance for us to go back to the situation that was, that is, to a situation without external independent evaluation. In order not to do so, it is necessary to accept the appropriate changes proposed by the government at first, but unfortunately they were not supported in this room, as well as to support the bills that are being tabled for your consideration today. I would like to report immediately that the parliamentary group “For Ukraine!” will also vote in favour of Bill 4241, which was introduced by distinguished colleagues Polohal and Orobec, although our bill has about seven differences that make clarifications, especially in the part of the responsibility for the disclosure of confidential data related to surveying, evaluation, the deadline for the entry into force of information on the beginning of external evaluation, the presence of journalists during the external independent evaluation procedure and some other points. At the same time, conceptual bills are very similar. So we're going to vote for both the first and the second, and we're going to urge you to do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u175	Thank you, Viacheslav Anatolyovich. The report from the committee is Lesio Juryovna Orobec.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u176	Good health, colleagues! By this vote, we will ensure legislative harmonisation of education reform, an external independent evaluation. As co-author of the bill, there are at least three very positive differences: first, taking into account the average score of the test; second, the order of public control of the test; and most importantly, ensuring administrative, criminal responsibility in breach of the test procedure. [[This will increase the motivation of children to go to school]] [[That is, our bill suggests that not only public organizations, but also parents, through parental self-government, have the opportunity to control how their children write tests]] [[This is especially important because the price of the question is too high -- it's about the introduction of children, it's about the state importance of the issue.]] This question has already been brought to your attention. And this time we've introduced a new essentially, but for the sake of purpose, a bill to bring this reform into line for the education community. She had the opportunity to meet many teachers. Among them were supporters of all the political forces represented in Parliament. And regardless of their political coloring, they all asked for the support of this bill. There is no politics, there is a state issue, so I ask you to unite and support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u177	Thank you. Let's sign up for a discussion. Yavorovsky Volodymyr Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u178	Vladimir Yavorowski, "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko", city of Kirovograd. Dear colleagues, there is no other way in which there is no other way in which to vote unanimously in favour of the bill passed by the Committee on Science and Education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u179	Gumenjuk Oleg Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u180	I refuse.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u181	Deputy Gumenjuk refuses to speak. Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u182	Dear colleagues! I don't know what the alternative to drafts is, and I'm really sorry that these solid authors put their signatures under exactly the same laws, under exactly the same laws that I feel. Which, I feel, have been developed in the United States! Now I'll tell you why. The faction leaders know that I will quote to you a letter from the ambassador headed by the Supreme Council of Ambassador Taylor of the United States of America from April 1, “His Majesty Lithuania. With your permission, I'd like to pay attention. To address you with a question that is of considerable interest to the United States government, namely the reforms that they are implementing. ensure the implementation of an external independent knowledge assessment when entering the higher educational institutions of Ukraine together with the Government of Ukraine and its educational community, the US Government has provided and continues to contribute to these efforts. [[For Americans, it's interesting.]] In order to ensure further successful implementation of these important reforms, they must have their basic legislative basis. On March 30, a group of national deputies led by the committee head, Polochal, introduced a draft law. In our opinion, this bill -- and so on and so forth -- is a draft included in the agenda of the day plenary meeting of the Supreme Council. Since the ultimate responsibility for the adoption of this vital law is certainly placed on the Parliament of Ukraine, we hope that we can count on your leading role in the process of adopting this extremely important legislative act.” After such letters, ambassadors should be advertised as non-grats, and drafters should be disgraced!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u183	Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u184	Dear colleagues, it is very bad that we are discussing such bills in a simplified system of procedures. Well, it's not worth it! This is about the future of the Ukrainian nation and about the future of the Ukrainian elite. That's not right. We should be asking questions here. I might have had a lot of sharp questions here in the session room. For example, I'd like to ask the committee of profile or the ministry, if there's been an analysis that's changed the quality of our freshmen's knowledge, for better or for worse. You know, you need a professional conversation. I'm not going to tell everyone here that I'm a former college worker, I'm going from an assistant professor of philosophy to a speaker, and I remember the preliminary exams, I remember all this circular stuff -- I know all that. I want to ask you, doctors of science, professors, academics, assistants, people with higher education, as you've come to this life, have acquired such educational heights, without a 12-ball system, without an 11-year schooling or an independent test, as you have done without all this misery to become such wise, educated people. [[Applause]] Who are you playing now? You're still, come on, enter criminal responsibility to put the Bologna system in place and spend forever and ever on a system of higher education. See how popular our university graduates are now, our technicians, our computers, our doctors. On that old conservative education system where you and I all became something. What happened was that you were so zealous, knowingly jumped into other people's factions, into other people's cards, into other people's buttons? Who are you, with what speck, in what soft place, that you so intent on stretching this bill? Think before it's too late!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u185	The discussions were made. The faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" wasn't recorded for the performance, so it's entitled to one minute from the faction. Kirilenko Viacheslav Anatoliyevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u186	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “For Ukraine” MP. Dear colleagues and honourable voters, we are introducing this bill and we ask you to support it, not to please America or Russia. And in order for the introduction to be free of even the hint of corruption, it's just the knowledge of children, that's all. By the way, in Russia this reform is also being implemented, but here is such a rare, happy case for Ukraine that we are doing better in implementing this reform and that's probably why some people have anger. What's more, I mean. I think we're working for the children of the Party of Regions, the Company, the Block of Timoshenko, our Ukraine and others, all without exception of the political forces, to go to universities based solely on knowledge, knowledge and once more knowledge. And this bill, if it goes through, it's going to give the external independent evaluation irreversibly. This is a progressive decision for which we all call for a vote, and we vote in favour of the first bill and the second. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u187	From the faction of Yulia Timoshenko - Polodimir Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u188	Dear colleagues, let's calm down. I'm like a person who's 30 years of scientific and pedagogical experience, and I call you to common sense and to what students and educators and rectors require today and everyone else. The majority of members of the committee put forward a bill regarding the comments made by the two previous speakers. Dear colleagues, I have never given any reason to say that a state might have an impact. And yesterday, in the Voice of Ukraine, you could all read my same thing, only in tolerant, diplomatic tone, your position exactly as regards the letter that was read today, in the same way as the content. But let's not touch it, let's just say one diplomat. But this should not be the result of our education, our graduates have equal access to education. That's why I'm talking. I have the same point of view as you do. But our education and our quality of education should not suffer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u189	Conversation is over. Vote on the basis of the draft Law on Amendments to the Left-wing Legislative Acts of Ukraine on the implementation of an external independent assessment of the quality of education and on the establishment of responsibility for violating the procedure for conducting an external independent evaluation of knowledge and the use of its results. Registration number 4241. Please vote. [[13:27:58]] For 242 Decision taken. The alternative bill has been rejected. The factions, please. Region Party 3, Timoshenko Yulia Block, 153. "Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense" - 67, Communists - 0, "Litvina Block" - 19. The next question proposed for inclusion in the agenda and consideration today is the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to amend the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to introduce a moratorium on evicting print media, cultural institutions, including libraries, publications, bookstores, bookstores, distribution companies. Registration number 4051. The question of inclusion in the agenda is put to the vote. [[13:29:09]] For 329 Decision taken. The question is raised for consideration. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Kurpil Stepan Volodymyrovich, reports on the issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u190	Dear Chief! Dear colleagues, national MPs! A few weeks ago, we made a very good social-significant decision to introduce a moratorium on evicting print media and cultural institutions, including libraries, publishing, bookstores, booktelling companies. This decision has already played a positive role. I was asked by representatives of the Ukrainian press distribution association to complete the decision, including the press distribution system. Why? Publications of printed media and distribution systems are intertwined. And the thing is, others suffer when they suffer. Not for the first month has there been a trend in both the capital and virtually all regions of Ukraine when the authorities of the local government have initiated the illegal destruction of the network of kiosks from the sale of printed media, the press. And the main reason for this is the absence of legislation that regulates the placement of small architectural forms, which creates conditions for corruption by officials in places and especially in the capital of Kiev. Today, there is a massive illegal dismantling of kiosks from the sale of the press, and games machines, casinos, cigarette kiosks, bars, fillings, and so forth are installed. That's why there's a small amount.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u191	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u192	In comparison with other European countries, the constitutional right of citizens to freedom of expression and free access to information is not promoted. So I propose to support the changes to this decision, and in this way to protect both the print media and the distribution system, and ultimately to the consumer press, that is, the readers, including us with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u193	The report from the committee is by Yavrovsky Vladimir Aleksandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u194	Dear Parliamentarians! Dear voters! First of all, I wanted to thank the People's Deputies on behalf of so many representatives of the bookstores, set up a culture for the courage and acceptance of this decision, which has imposed a moratorium and will allow us to save a lot of rooms in these difficult times of economic crisis. We have made this decision with you, and this is the solution to which clarification is proposed. The Committee on Culture and Spirituality supports absolutely and we understand that newspaper kiosks, which are very easy to throw away, say, in Kiev; secondly, they are incredibly few and people do not have access to them. So it's all absolutely, let's say, humanitarianly, ideologically, it's all very accurate, and we totally support. However, the Committee on Culture and Spirituality made some observations to the author of this law. One is that in kiosks where newspapers, magazines sell, and so on, other things are cigarettes, and sometimes beer and so on. This caused us some sort of, as it were, caution. Most importantly, this regulation proposes that the rent rates be set for renting in public property buildings that are used for the sale of bookkeeping products, as well as for the use of land. I mean, we're putting in land benefits, for real, for trading facilities. Because of the fact that your time is not occupied for long, the committee suggests so. Accept it in the first reading, but on the second reading, you have to remove all of these things in order to be in equal conditions and the kiosks that sell books and the cultural institutions that we talked about. Then one normal row builds up. That's what we're going to ask you to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u195	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Let's sign up for a discussion. Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u196	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that when we adopted this Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the introduction of moratoriums on evicting print products, I, as you remember, made a suggestion to include in this list what is being said today, dear colleague Stepan Volodymyrovich Kurpil. [[Actually, why did I ask for the word?]] Well, then that proposal didn't go away. So I am telling you today that I will definitely support this proposal because it deserves attention for this reason. The problem with editing printed media, kiosks at the distribution of books is that they are in a very bad place. I mean, they're usually in the center. They're usually at the intersection of human routes, usually in many places. They are extremely attractive and attractive to some rogue who would put his own genelide on the line. We have to protect, and I'm not afraid of such high words, we're in the same way, we're in some way protecting our spirituality. Because when we see a bookstore being visited by a brewery, I want to tell you that even in virgin Poland such things were not allowed to happen, a rural community could become. This bill must be supported. But I think so. Whether or not this bill will at times meet the bitter fate of the Sinchenka bill or not, once again, one of your BJTs will say that these books will sell police and gang literature and you will not waste it. So, would you please get out there in the BUT faction, whether you're voting for this bill or not? So it's not as funny as last time. When we're supporting your bill, and you're there with each other, in view of some deliberate motive, we've taken and we've had our differences. Gather around, concentrate. You're the authority, you've taken responsibility even for where the book kiosk is.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u197	Kosov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u198	Mikhailo Kosov is the faction of the “Blanket of Yulia Timoshenko”, to which the call for us to concentrate and to vote very friendlyly in favour of this law was made. So we've already done that. And today at the faction meeting, they said that this was actually a very necessary addition to that bill that we had already passed in the past. I just, Volodymyr Alexanderovich, I don't want to agree, so give me as head of the committee with you, because you don't sell beer in these kiosks. Well, unfortunately, I don't know, but it's not for sale. And what they sell is souvenirs, well, yeah, souvenirs are sold. Maybe even, but they're only sold because the media, the newspapers, they're not going to survive, they're just not going to survive. So it's not from a good life. I would still suggest that we accept this project in general, because, you know, take something out there, well, it just doesn't make any sense, and it doesn't make any sense. And the definition of what is actually, which is subject to the status of the newspaper kiosk, is very clearly already regulated in legislation, particularly in the Cabinet of Ministers. So, colleagues, I'm going to go meet you after all. Because you know the state of our media, especially those printed, and so let us support our colleague’s good initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u199	Shershun Mikola Haritonovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u200	Mikola Shershun, “Block Lithuania”. Unfortunately, more and more, this is confirmed by our peers, and we can hear about cases of the destruction of the press kiosks, the closure of the library, and the publication. This issue is particularly acute in large cities and capitals, where war is fought for every, literally, meter. Today you buy a newspaper, and tomorrow you watch teenagers spend their money thoughtlessly in slot machines that don't grow in days, but in hours. What kind of young people do we raise if we are allowed to close and destroy cultural institutions and move out of bookstores? It would be very good if, with the validity of the decision, a flat-rate rent for renting buildings in state-owned buildings were to be established. Thus, the State will demonstrate its interest in development, not the destruction of cultural institutions. Perhaps these savings will be used to improve services, as well as to interest young ones and encourage them to read. This is especially important for libraries. A child, a schoolboy, a student, as well as an adult, is much more comfortable to come to the light, a comfortable library, where. normal reading conditions are possible for more than one hour. The Internet will never replace a printed word. It's immoral to destroy a bookstore. I think that this draft decision is extremely relevant and appropriate to be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u201	The discussion is over. It is on the basis of a draft decree amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the introduction of a moratorium on the emigration of printed media, cultural institutions, including libraries, publications, bookstores, book distribution enterprises, registration number 4051. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:40:53]] For 354 Decision taken. The Professional Committee recommends acceptance of these changes as a whole. Is there a denial? There's no objection. It is a vote on the adoption of a draft decree amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the introduction of a moratorium on the emigration of printed media, cultural institutions, including libraries, publications, bookstores, book-sharing enterprises. [[Registration number 4051]] Please vote. [[13:41:39]] For three hundred Decision taken. The next project, which is proposed by the Conciliation Council, is to include us in the agenda, this is a draft decree on measures to preserve the historic construction of the city of Odessa, its world-renowned monuments of architecture and construction during the period of economic crisis. [[Registration number 4227]] I'd like to make a statement. [[13:42:22]] For 297 The decision is taken, the project is included in the agenda, it is announced for consideration. This project will be reported by Grenevetsky Sergey Rafailovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u202	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! A proposal is made for consideration of the draft decision. The purpose of the aforementioned draft regulation is to create the conditions to ensure that the historic city of Odessa is preserved during the economic crisis by developing at the state level appropriate measures, supporting its implementation. The Cabinet of Ministers, executive authorities, the local self - government of Odessa and Odessa and Odessa District are invited to develop and take steps to preserve the historic city’s historic structure, its world - famous monuments of architecture and urbanization during the period of economic crisis, and to provide financial support. The plan should include provision for 2009-2010, such as comprehensive rehabilitation, conservation, restoration of the most valuable architectural monuments; high-priority anti-accident and conservation work on the most valuable monuments of architecture and monumental art; the organization of special supervision of the technical state of the monuments; the introduction of appropriate information databases, their technical state; and the conduct of scientific research related to the need for continuous observation. The main thing is to involve investments, credit resources in the development of a material and technical base. This is only about providing the funding provided in the 2009 State Budget in 2009, and the main purpose of this decision is to signal all investors and banks politically so that they can organize work at the local level on investment. I'm sure it might be an invisible job, but we're still going to have to do it, and I think that's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u203	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u204	Well, I'm done. The foundation for the future development of cities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u205	Thank you. The report from the committee is by Yavrovsky Vladimir Aleksandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u206	Dear Parliamentarians! Dear voters! The Committee on Culture and Spirituality took the initiative of the national deputy of our colleague Greenewecko. The point is, before that, I won't call my name, we got one draft decree to get 40 objects out of that list of objects that aren't privatized, so we can get somewhere, if I'm not mistaken. The committee strongly opposed this because there were very clear trends in this. Instead, Greenewecki, national deputy Greenewecki, presented a document designed to preserve that unique center, a unique monument in Odessa. It's also about the Potomkin stairs, it's about course, and it's about the Primorsky Boulevard ensemble, it's about the Opera Theatre, and it's legendary and famous and all that. Because of this, I think, this decision -- it's very good, it's really focused on a very good thing. At first we're a little bit, I'll tell you, I've alerted you that there's a moment there, so there's some funding there, but on behalf of the committee, I'm saying that we've found out in the government that these funds for Odessa have already been allocated, they've been allocated to our national state budget. As a result, we ask for the support of this decision. This money is there, and let's really keep it in Odessa. It is good that a national deputy who knows and loves this city has done so. I ask, on behalf of the committee, to vote in favour of this ruling on behalf of the Yulia Timoshenko Block. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u207	Let's sign up for a discussion. Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u208	Thank you. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues, I would like to declare and announce support for this draft decision, not only because Sergey Greeneweck is a member of our faction. The question raised in it -- and that's exactly what the head of the profiling committee said -- is that it's just a matter of preserving the acquisition of entire generations. I want to say again, today was about what. One MP says people only talk about money. That's not true, that's not true. There are many people whose history is more important for preserving the acquisitions of their ancestors than trying to raid a new facility, making money on it. And so this idea -- the idea of preserving historical monuments, the whole collection of historical monuments -- it's absolutely right and it deserves the support of all those people who think it's not just money that determines everything in this life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u209	School of Andriy Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u210	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. I am of course convinced that the Supreme Council, just as I included in the agenda, is the same number of votes. And equally intensely, perhaps even more intensely, it will support this decision. I just wanted to point out that other objects in Ukraine need the same attention. Ukraine is really a very rich country for historical monuments, only we do not always know how to store them. So I think that the initiative that the people's MP is taking is going to be supported here. And I think that here we have to demonstrate our objectivity and independence from where we come from, from where we come from, from which part of Ukraine. We understand the need to safeguard values that are common, which are common to all of us. And I wanted to say a few words to Odessa, the representative of Odessa. Please pass the word to Paul Ungurian. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u211	The discussion is over. Puts the vote to the vote. Ah, there's a faction that didn't participate, wants to say. Please, one minute. Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u212	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues and distinguished Sergey Raphaelovich! Even though you voted in your own time for the Bandera century, even though you voted actively today to follow the instructions of the ambassador of the United States, the faction of Communists will fulfill your promise and support your bill, because it really has a direct bearing on the famous hero city of Odessa. The only thing I'd like to say is don't narrow down or take life from Odessa. I am convinced, and you are sure that sooner or later the crisis will end. After the crisis, what will we do to stop caring for Odessa? Because the name says you only care about Odessa for a period of economic crisis. But she's tomorrow. They say they'll finish it tomorrow. So let's take the words “crisis” and in general we can vote in favour of the ruling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u213	The replica. Grenevetsky Sergey Rafailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u214	Thank you, Your Honor. The point is, what I've been trying to explain is the language goes into a period of economic crisis to give incentives and initiate the ability of local banks, local authorities to put together their efforts and implement those decisions. The ones voted today by the Supreme Council. It's about the budget, it's about the local budgets, it's about the regular budget execution, it's about the first budget. And the second. With regard to those unique monuments, I want to remind you that only 44 of them are part of the national acquisition. Moreover, Odessa now claims to be one of the Euro-2012 cities. We need to get started. So the main goal is to mobilize everyone's efforts, to understand that Odessa is not the first city, but not the second. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u215	The faction that did not participate in the discussion, the "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense", one minute is the National Deputy Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u216	Vladimir Karpuk. Of course, it is a very valuable bill, a valuable initiative, but at the same time, cultural monuments, architecture, the old construction of the city has always been in crisis and before the crisis comes, because funding, both from the state budget and from local budgets, has been extremely small and has not been able to reproduce it. And so much has been lost over the years. So there is a proposal to the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, to the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, to develop a decision to anticipate the preservation of the monuments of architecture and culture of all cities. Because it doesn't matter if it's Odessa, whether it's Kiev, whether it's Kiev, whether it's Kiev, or the Kiev-Pecher Lavra, or the Potemkin steps, or the old Stone-Podilski building, or Lviv. And that's why it's important to adopt a law on exclusion from the list of privatizations of these cultural institutions, but they need daily funds. And indeed, there is a need for concentration, both financial and organizational efforts, and for the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u217	The discussion is over. All the factions, all the factions, took part in the discussion. The vote is based on the draft decree on the measures and preservation of the historic city of Odessa. Registration number 4227. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:53:51]] For 340. Decision taken. The profile committee proposes to accept as a whole as a project. Is there no objection? None. The entire draft decree on the measures and preservation of the historic blockade of Odessa, its world - famous monuments of architecture and the construction of cities during a period of economic crisis, is on the vote. Registration number 4227. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:54:31]] For 351 Decision taken. Another question that the Conciliation Council is proposing for us to include in the agenda of the day session and to consider today is the draft decree on measures to preserve the cultural heritage of the Palanok Castle in Mukacheva Zakarpatska District. I'm voting on the proposal of the Conciliation Council for inclusion in the agenda. [[13:55:10]] For 311 Decision taken. Let us turn to this question. Reported Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Tomenko Mikola Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u218	Dear colleagues, I would like to present the position of our team of authors, which is composed of four national deputies: Mikola Tomenko, Irina Heraszczenko, Hanna Herman, Mikhailo Kosov, who want to do a historical work and return the mysterious and incomprehensible, from the point of view of property rights, a significant castle in the system of state influence. The point was that in 1956 the Council of Ministers of the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic had taken this cultural monument into account. In 1992, at the direction of the President's representative in the Zakarpatsky region and the Zacarpathian District Council, a historical museum was handed over to the municipal property without any indication of its location, and in 93, the Mukatov City Council, instead of the historical museum, transferred the entire complex of the Palanok Castle. According to the General Prosecutor’s Office, there has been no action so far or at that time regarding the proper processing of documents and the act of transferring the castle to the property of the city has not been filed. Thus, since he was not a legal person, he was not actually handed over to the city. In 2003, the Zacarpathian District Attorney’s Office challenged the decision, and for a long time there was a discussion about who, within which and within which complexes it belonged. Because the Mukatov City Council in 2003 decided on the basis of the castle to create a hotel complex with appropriate infrastructure and offered various commercial structures to deal with it. This story lasted until 2008, when the 46 - year lease was passed on to one private enterprise for the total amount of rent, this castle, in 10 million dollars. Since law enforcement agencies and the public have been involved, this story has stalled for some time. So if we look at the legal and political dispute around this, our team proposes to do the following two things: to return this national monument, and this is a historical national historical monument not only to the state of Ukraine, but to many other states, it is very important in the sphere of national influence, and so to entrust the Cabinet of Ministers with the necessary arrangements for the creation of a state-owned historical and architectural reserve for the palaces, referring it to the administration of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism. When it is in the system of governmental influence, it will become clear how we can act. Maybe some area that's going to be somewhere away from the castle and it's going to be able to, let's say, engage some hotel complex there, but until it's in state ownership, and it's not clear what state it is in, I think we're too early to build a hotel complex there. And of course, we're going to the Attorney General's Office to complete this investigation because since 2004, someone has been obstructing the completion of an investigation, which is actually what happened when this complex was illegally transferred to municipal property against the relevant decisions that are here. Therefore, our determination, as it were, is tolerant and allows the Ukrainian State and the Ministry of Culture to take control of this reserve and help it to receive foreign tourists, Ukrainians, and we are all proud of this monument to Ukraine’s cultural heritage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u219	Correspondence from the committee is Kosov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u220	Dear colleagues! I think you've known about this problem for a long time since it caused a great social resonance in the media and among cultural heritage conservation professionals. He raised that question and our colleague from "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" Deputy Hennaday Moscal. But I, as you obviously do, have come up with this problem as a result of the Mukatov City Council’s appeal to us. We received all such a letter so that the Supreme Council could finally resolve the matter with the continuation of this monument. So Mikola Volodymyrovich has assembled this group of four deputies who have brought to your attention the current project. We've considered it in the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, and it's a draft decision in your hands. We suggest that this draft decision be adopted both in the first reading, and in general it does not require any additional, as it were, discussions. At our committee's meeting, we had the first deputy minister of culture and tourism, Mikol Yakovin, and he's here today. And they agreed that they were taking this object into their own subordination. The difference was only in the status of the object. Is this supposed to be a reserve? Mr. Mikola says there are other components to the reserve. But it doesn't matter, it's already, as it were, in the working order, you can decide if it's just going to be some kind of museum. It's a historical museum.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u221	Finish up, Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u222	But I ask you to vote for him.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u223	Let's sign up for a discussion. We continued the meetings until the issue was closed. Yavorovsky Volodymyr Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u224	Vladimir Yavorowski “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, Committee on Culture and Spirituality. I am. Mikhail Kosov, quite accurately presented the information and position of our committee on this subject. Indeed, this long-suffering castle, near just a passion, and again the Mukachevo, which has become famous literally in the last five or six years. Because of this, we really need to solve this problem just as clearly as we will in the next sessional week we will be together to solve the problem of Kiev-Pecher Lavra, which today is being hit by cars that are constantly, almost every week, falling down the Lower Caves when offices are being built in Lavra's territory today. Absolutely, Laura is the property of the city authority, the Cherniewetsk, in fact, although it seems that the ideological protectorate over him is owned by the Ministry of Culture. And we need to find out, because the Kyiv Laurra, along with her and Sofia, because they go to UNESCO under one number, can generally be excluded from that list. And I think it's more disgrace than if you don't bring God, it won't happen to us. That's why we're really proposing, firstly, that the law enforcement authorities figure out how it happened, which, in principle, was a very low price passed on to, basically, one family, this castle, so let the law enforcement agencies deal with it. [[You know who this is.]] And the others. After all, the State must take this unique monument under its wing and, in fact, then, in turn, the Ministry of Culture, the Cabinet of Ministers will find out how the most reasonable thing to do is to use this object to preserve it, and to work for Ukraine today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u225	Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u226	I ask for the floor to convey to one of Ukraine’s most outstanding cultural heritage experts, Andrew Schleak.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u227	School of Andriy Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u228	Thank you, Jaroslav, for your kind words. I'd like to emphasize here, you know, one thing that we can normally talk about here for a long time, I want to save in my speech for a discussion, because I think we're all voting. I would just like to ask the representatives of the “One Centre” Party to support this decision as well. I hope their civic position, their courage will be demonstrated here, patriotism, including. Because such things cannot be done in the state at all, there can be no national acquisition in private property, no matter who they are, no matter what the circumstances of the matter may be, no matter what the families may be. This belongs to all the families of Ukraine. This belongs to every Ukrainian, every Ukrainian citizen, because it's a national wealth. And there's no right for her to be in anyone's hands, which means she's not quite that clean. I call on the representatives of the EC Party to support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u229	Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u230	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, the faction supports the draft decree. But at the same time, I'd like to draw attention to the fundamental nuances that, unfortunately, we don't really consider in the draft. To begin with, I want to know who has been visiting this castle for a year, two or more, and whether I have seen him in his condition. Not in a horrendous, not in a terrible state, which is the fact that the castle is, fortunately, preserved. I was in this castle about a year and a half ago, and I can tell you that, fortunately, this castle has been preserved and the state has not lost it. That's a fact. But in order for the state not to lose it, the current draft of the decree was overtaken. If we just write it down to state property and put a dot on it, this castle will be destroyed. Because the state will say we don't have any funding. Because the state will say we have a crisis. Because the state will say, and you have broken the Budget Code, the government budget for this museum does not have the funds allocated to the Ministry of Culture. And so on and so forth. So I propose that we accept this provision in the first reading today. The final option is to accept only when the exact amount to keep this lock is specified. Because if we're going to give you people what we're going to take, and it's absolutely right that it's a national, it's a national value. It's more than a national, it's an international value. But in order to preserve this pride of our nation, it takes money, money, and more money. So let's either now say how much money I'm spending to keep this commanding museum, or we're only going to take on the first reading. Let us with our hands with good thoughts, with good, as it were, well, as if we were actually returning to the state, so that we wouldn't make trouble for this national acquisition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u231	From the faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense", Heratchenko Irina Volodymyrna, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u232	Dear colleagues, I would like to agree that the Mukatov Castle is truly, compared to other monuments of architecture and history of Ukraine, in good condition. And it's hard for me to say whether it's still at the expense of government funding, which was in the early 1990s, or whether the city authorities supported it in that state. In general, we really need to take a very serious approach to the question of preserving all historical memories in the country, discussing them separately. I would like to point out that in our determination, we are giving Kabmin the opportunity to develop a way of keeping this castle. Because state ownership does not mean that, as in Europe, it cannot be leased for exhibitions and so forth. And I want to draw attention to the words of my colleague Kosovo, which is what really, when the city head Zultan Landel writes to the Ukrainian national deputies, asking us, together with the business structures that will be interested in implementing this project, to participate in the lease competition, whether it is possible to apply the measure to the deputies of any European country. So I want to say that we have to look at it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u233	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u234	I want to say that we have the city authorities to help give advice to this castle if it asks MPs to take part in the lease. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u235	The discussion is over. It is up to the vote on the adoption in the first reading of the decree on measures to preserve the cultural heritage of the Palanok Castle in Mukacheva Zakarpatska oblast, registration number 4228. I'd like to make a statement. [[14:09:13]] For 334 Decision taken. During the talks, Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk spoke about the need to prepare for the second reading. For this reason, please find out what to cook, one of the authors, the head of, say, the copyright team, the reporter Tomenko Mikola Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u236	Dear colleagues, dear Adam Ivanovich, I have an offer of this. Look, today's very procedure for creating the State History and Architecture Reserve will take us a long time. And I'm afraid if we don't take this decision today, in fact, we don't give the instruction to Kabmin and the Ministry of Culture to do the work. If we could make this second point, what the Cabinet of Ministers would do in an orderly manner with regard to the creation of the State Historical and Architectural Reserve of the Palanok Castle from referring it to the sphere. And determine the order of funding that's there and that. Because if we're on the first reading today, they won't get a job, they don't have a document, and there won't be a reserve then. Do you understand? I'm worried. That until we return to the realm of his state, that means that the restaurant will be there for us.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u237	Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u238	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. We can only agree with one clarification: “It is necessary to determine the necessary funding for the maintenance of this reserve”. Because if we write, "determinate," that is, "and definitely determine the costs". In that case, it is fashionable in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-15-m0.u239	The reporter agrees with this addition. The supplement proposed by the Ukrainian national deputy Martinyuk Adam Ivanovic on determining the size of funding by the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers is put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[14:11:19]] For 329 Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk’s proposal is supported. No more objections, no more supplements? I am voting on the entire draft Order on Measures for the Conservation of Cultural Heritage – Polanok Castle of Mukacheva Zakarpatska District. [[Registration number 4228]] Please vote. [[14:11:56]] For 336 Decision taken. The morning plenary session is closed. The next plenary session will begin tomorrow at 10 a.m. Good luck!
