ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u1	Dear fellows, I ask you, dear fellows, sit down, that which. Besides what we agreed on, I assure you there will be no other action. Alexander Sergiyovich, we agreed, there will be no other action but those we agreed on. Well, have a seat, please. Honourable National Deputies, today in connection with the requirement of 151 National Deputies for the convening of an extraordinary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth occasion and in accordance with part two of article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine, part two of article 11 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is being held at a meeting of the extraordinary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The next session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on the sixth call, has been announced. Please sit down. Dear national deputies, regardless of political tensions, let us welcome the national deputy of Ukraine, Matvijev Valentina Josephovich, with his birthday and wish him good health. Dear colleagues, pursuant to article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine, it is stipulated that the extraordinary sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, with a definition of the agenda, shall be convened by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the request of the President of Ukraine or at least one third of the national deputies of Ukraine from the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[This is especially true: with the order of the day]] 151 deputies made appropriate proposals and proposed a meeting schedule of 12 issues. At the same time, taking into account political differences, the Conciliation Council decided to consider six issues. And I'm going to announce these questions. And then Ivan Grigorovitch will make a statement at the request of the government. Alexander Sergiyovich will then make an assessment of Ephraim. A proposal from the government regarding the minimum and minimum wage Act. The faction leaders will then appear as they wish. Then we will vote on the meeting schedule and turn to issues. We agreed that we won't, we'll work without a break, until we look at all these issues. What are the questions I'm asking you right now? First question. Act, draft Law 4741 amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts concerning the election of the President of Ukraine. Second reading. The second question. Bill 4557 on living minimum and minimum wage. Question three. This is a draft of Law 5009 on support for industrial production in Ukraine under financial crisis. Question four. This is draft Law 4817, which deals with amendments and additions to the Constitutional Court Act. And I missed another question that stands for the third. This is 4630, a bill amending some of Ukraine's legislation on the features of bank financial recovery measures. And finally, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decision, registration number 5011, on urgent measures to stabilize Ukraine's agri-industrial complex. That's all. Now, Ivan Grigorovitch Kirilenko, please. He asked for three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u2	Dear Head, dear colleagues! Dear voters! In my speech, I want to address our opposition. You have not yet unlocked the rostrum, your colleagues, because you are now insisting on a bill that has been passed and passed with great social pressure. Dear friends, we have a deep understanding of the fact that the issue is extremely urgent, of high relevance and importance to society. We realize that in these circumstances people need to be protected, and especially those who are underprotective, especially pensioners. Especially those with a minimum wage and minimal survival opportunities today. The government also has an understanding of this. And you know, the government has initiated social projects all the time, whenever possible. We ask you, dear friends, given that such laws have never been passed in Ukraine with such an increase, given that such decisions have never been made in the middle of the financial year and given that such laws have not been adopted in the face of a crisis when production declines, we would very much ask you. [[It's the first time]] [[and I also address representatives of other factions that are part of the Committee on Budgets, other committees that are involved in the subject, especially social]] Dear colleagues! We want to do so today, and we suggest that this bill will not be settled, that we devote some time to agree on all the positions that this law has in place, to agree on every single piece of paper so that, if we do so in August, if there is a further meeting, or in early September, we should make sure that every single copy that reaches the low-security levels of the population is not an inducer of inflation, is not a trigger for the devaluation of our monetary unit, does not ruin that fragile situation of stability in the currency, in the monetary and credit markets, and in general in the economy of the country. We don't want it to be paper. Ten bracelets will receive a pensioner, and a hundred bracelets will be removed from the pockets of inflation and price hikes. We say the following, that this bill will necessarily be adopted by working with the government, with the budget committee, with employers, because this will probably apply to a particular economy – an increase in the corresponding wage ratio, because there is a tariff network that deals with the professions. We ask you to remove this question today, considering that it will necessarily be considered in this room and accepted but agreed upon. It will also have to be considered because these figures will be set for the next fiscal year, and we will not be able to get away with it. The government should submit the draft budget by September 15th under the Constitution this year. Colleagues, we'd like to consider this statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u3	Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, we understand the issues related to the implementation of the bill to raise minimum wages and minimum pensions, but we also understand what is happening in our country, especially in families where people are poor. Those of our colleagues who have spent the last few weeks in their districts in meetings with voters, literally today, approaching me, have all said the same thing, that every day the number of people who come to the reception of deputies is increasing and that they say they simply have nothing to live for. In doing so, I would like to inform you that the Government and the relevant organizations, the Timoshenko-led Government, agree on a Memorandum of Economic and Financial Policy for the International Monetary Fund. In this Memorandum, I would like to draw attention to only one point: from September of this year, the Government commits itself to the International Monetary Fund to increase the payment of gas to the population by 20 per cent. But that's not all. Since 1 January 2010, the Government has pledged to increase the quarterly salary for the population by also 20 per cent. If we do not make or balance payments to our people and pensioners, they will simply not be able to make the payments that the Government has to bear. Therefore, while we take note of Ivan Grigorievich's statement and thank him for making such a statement, we believe that this is not only a requirement of the Party of the Regions to increase the minimum wage, but it is already becoming the demand of most of the people in our State. And that, on your and on our common conscience, a balanced law was adopted in August that would allow people to count on the minimum payments that the State today demands from them, and would also compensate them for the increase in wages and pensions at the level of inflation that is in our State. We hope that this statement will not be merely a statement. We believe that all MPs have a conscience and a responsibility, and we hope that further issues will unite us rather than separate us. At least in the name of our State and in the name of our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u5	Thank you. Yes, now, please, from the factions. Huh? Dear colleagues, I'm asking you, when I was about to be approached when I opened the session and said the cards hadn't been put down yet. Have all the cards been put down yet? So I'm asking you to run an enrollment so that we can handle all the formalities. Please. Please register. [[11:53:34]] In fact, there were 442 deputies registered in the session hall. Dear colleagues, we agreed that if in the other three factions there was a need to express their position, that would be the possibility. Mikola Volodymyrovich, who will it be? Is it? It's better from the rostrum. From the Communist faction, Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk will be. Sergei Greenewecki.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u6	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! First of all, congratulations, I think most of the faction welcomes that in the end they learned to look for compromises for many weeks of opposition in this room. And that's very good. Although, on the other hand, it is not good that we do not endure the letter of the Rules. When 150 or more deputies apply for a non-commissioned session, we must endure the day’s order, as the Constitution says. But for compromise, you have to start working. What are some of the issues that I would like to focus on is the position of the faction that is far from clear? The first question is the draft Act amending certain legislative acts concerning the election of the President of Ukraine, the second reading. You and I still have the elections in 2005, 2004-2005. And everyone remembers very well how hard it was at the time to work, precisely because of the legislative base that was at the time. Now we're also making mistakes that we're going to get into the presidential election. What is discussed in some articles is that the candidate who will have more administrative influence will take precedence over the presidential election. In particular, we have an accusation only in the Kyiv Court of Appeal without appeal. Whoever has an influence on him will win. We have mistakes. In particular, with hard-core certificates. They should not be completely abolished but should be done as was the case in the 2006 parliamentary elections. What it means is when we take down the issue of publishing the results of the elections that the CBC is going to take down. We've made an announcement and everything has entered into force. Then we can sue or not. So the faction will not vote unanimously on this issue. And we're making a warning on this bill. And in the end, I go to my coalition colleagues. When are we going to stop compromising on personnel issues? At the next meeting, the faction will be separate from certain government officials who seem to be our representatives. We need to put this question to a vote, make decisions on it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u7	Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u8	Dear colleagues! Dear voters! I think everyone will think, if the next session is convened, it's an extraordinary session that the state can't live without. Let's think about why we've spent a million dollars bringing people's deputies together, and what we're going to be looking at today is what our nation can't live without for a month and a half. The only law that's worth considering is what the Party of Regions put in the social demands. But, you see, this law is now being removed. You agree that you do not need to consider it. You should. But maybe we can solve the problem by not just raising it, because we can raise the minimum wage you want. But if prices rise the way they do today, no race will take place. So before we go any higher, we have to accept what the Communist faction has proposed on more than one occasion -- to accept a moratorium on price increases. And then raise everything else. What does it have to do with what the country cannot live on “for banks”. I'm explaining in a popular way -- the 27th is due to have another session of the International Monetary Fund, which requires the adoption of this law. And why do we need a third tranche if the first and second National Bank officially stated that it didn't spend a penny. So why do we ask the third? If the first and the second are not yet spent to enter the cabal alone. And make a dance for those who run Ukraine. The President's election. Believe me, now, if we look at it, you'll see that the Central Election Commission will have the right to appoint candidates to the Presidents. That her decision will depend on who will be the candidate, because if he removes the candidate from the registration, no court has the right to re-establish him. That's what we want, and that's what's important to the state? Perhaps we can agree to some extent if the session hall supports what is involved in the agrarian complex. This is indeed an up - to - date question. And maybe for that, maybe for that, it would also be worth picking up an extra session, because what you're doing in the country, if one of you has the opportunity not only to be on the seas and the oceans, but to meet with the voters and especially with the villagers, he sees well what the agriculture has proved, which is about twice the cost that the collectors are offering today doesn't match the cost of the grain. And the last. Today, unfortunately, you will be the next witness to the intervention in the “body” of the Constitution and the mockery of the Constitution of two great factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u9	Sergei Greenewecki, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u10	Dear Head! Dear colleagues! It is absolutely clear that the systemic political crisis, I would say both moral and spiritual, has once again confirmed the imperfections of the electoral system on closed party lists. Because what happened, I think, should be seen as the primary responsibility of the initiators to convene an off-the-book session. Article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine provides for the possibility of holding such a session. And the need, the urgency, to some extent predicts the extraordinaryness of such action. Reflecting on the order of the day, the Conciliation Council clearly deviated from the Constitution even though such a term appeared “the Constitution is being improved through practice”. But, you know, we can improve to this condition when we're losing statehood in all institutions, in all azimuths. Unfortunately, populism, which has become the basis of legislative activity, seems to have unforeseeable consequences. We seem to have reached consensus, but this is a consensus outside the Constitution, it's not a consensus because of compromise, because everyone takes compromise just as I said. In our view, we should consider today and consider the topical issue that has become increasingly publicized in politics and society in recent years: it is an issue of inviolability. But to consider this issue in a series of intactities between the President and the judiciary. Sadly, we did not find agreement on this matter. I would like to express my appreciation for the understanding and order of the daily draft decision on urgent measures to stabilize the situation in the agri-industrial complex. The reasons for this question are absolutely clear. Because what's going on in the village today is, in large account, a state survey of the agri-industrial complex. And the essence of this decision that our colleague Catherine Vaschuk makes is to predict an increase in expenditure from the stabilisation fund to the agrarian fund on a reverse basis, but after the sale of the grains of the present day, the cost of implementation will necessarily return to the state budget. The Lithuanian “Block of Lithuania” faction agreed to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u11	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u12	to participate in the vote on the issues raised in the Conciliation Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u13	Dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts. We need to move now to approving the meeting schedule. At the same time, with regard to bill 4557 on raising the minimum wage for living. We had in our time a draft of Decree 4796 of this kind. I'll give you two points to think about. If you have a common position, then we could take this decision in the process of working. It's so meaningful. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine until September 01, 2009. First. Organize, in accordance with the Ukrainian Act on Living Minimum, to review food kits, non-food kits and service sets for the main social demographic groups and to make the appropriate decision. And the second. Prepare, taking into account the requirements of article 3 of the Constitution of Ukraine, and submit legislative proposals to the Supreme Council of Ukraine aimed at raising social protection for the population. What is the motive for this? That social standards were set in 2000. The MPs refer to the fact that the captured Germans were given more, but they did not hit their finger to review these social standards. So it could be done at the same time in the process of processing, and social standards could be reviewed. They are adopted by the Cabinet of Ministers, and on this basis the minimum and minimum wage are determined. So since we have an agreement to deal with only five laws, I would ask the faction leaders in the labor regime to agree. If it's good will, then we're going to consider this draft decision under number 4796. Because in order to preserve the working Supreme Council of Ukraine, I think I have one way to go: compromise. And now, honourable colleagues, in relation to article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine. I'll read it again. “The current sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine shall be convened by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the request of the President or at the request of at least one third of the Ukrainian national deputies from the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.” So the order of the initiators was determined, he didn't find support, the rostrum was blocked. Five questions were raised to remove the opposition. So I'm going to give you a list of these questions and put it to a vote so that the Supreme Council of Ukraine understands that in making this decision, this decision will have a purely political character, because we are in violation of the Constitution. So that we can then be aware of the possible charges in the relevant courts. Therefore, for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, it is proposed that: Draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts concerning the election of the President of Ukraine. [[second reading]] Again, 4741. The second question. A bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on the features of bank financial recovery measures. [[Registration number 4630]] [[resecond reading]] Third. Bill, registration number 5009. On amending some Ukrainian legislation on the features of financial measures, the draft Law 5009 amending certain Ukrainian laws to minimize the impact of the financial crisis on the development of the domestic industry. Next. The Act, draft Law 4817 amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the powers of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, the characteristics of conduct in matters of constitutional appeals and non-abuse, the right to constitutional submission. And Project Decision No. 5011 on urgent measures to stabilize the situation in Ukraine's agri-industrial complex. I put what we agreed on, not a separate decision. We agreed. Dear colleagues! Realizing that there is a violation of the Constitution, I appeal to the Supreme Council so that the Supreme Council of Ukraine can determine and decide accordingly. What? For reasons of vote, please write down the reasons for the vote. Five minutes of vote. Put the names of the national MPs on the board. Mikola Rudchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u14	Please pass the word to Catherine Vaschuk, “Litvina Block”.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u15	Katerina Vaschuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u16	Dear colleagues! I am deeply grateful to those who supported the speakers in the rostrum for their consideration of the APC situation. And I'm addressing all the national MPs. This issue was dealt with by national deputies from various factions. And we found an understanding. And there will be complements from them. We too will find an understanding. I ask you very much: given the situation today in the village, in the grain market, in the market for all agricultural products, we must respond, respond properly, allowing the government and the relevant ministries to remedy the situation. There is also a task for the Supreme Council. So it's a complex decision that will take a step to meet the village. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u17	Taras Cranville.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u18	Chernobyl Taras, non-fractional. Volodymyr Mikhailovich! First. Very short. If you break the Constitution, as you mentioned, it was also broken before the fact that after you announced it appeared as if it were a nonfractional faction. If this has happened, let's go to the end, let the non-fractionals speak from the factions. We have two things to say, too. And now, briefly, in a different way. I understand 150 deputies have come up with a plan for today's session. The second part of the hall insists on filling it with certain questions. The addition is taking place. But this does not mean that we have the right to dismiss matters that have been clearly identified today. I'm not talking about other questions on which there are doubts, but we have two ministers, in fact, two vacancies, on which constitutionally, legislatively, without the signature of the first person, the minister himself, cannot issue acts. The Minister of Finance and the Minister of Foreign Affairs is again postponing this issue. All acts that come out on behalf of these ministries without these signatures have questionable legitimacy. How long can we pull this thing?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u19	Eugene Suslov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u20	I'd like a word with Portnova.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u21	Andrew Portnov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u22	Thank you. Andrew Portnov, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'd like to say that you just said in your speech that you are in violation of the Constitution today. I'd like to make an alternative point of view. The matter is that the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with the law, can form a day’s order in accordance with the Rules. This is exactly what was done today on the Conciliation Council and will now be proposed for the vote of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. If the Supreme Council of Ukraine votes in favour of this, we will not violate the Constitution if we work in such an order of the day. Moreover, the violation of the Constitution of Ukraine can only be established by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. That is why we propose to work in this order of business today, as you have announced. In addition, I would like to say that today there is a rally under the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a meeting where more than 300 city heads are required to start work today and stop blocking, paralyzing work.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u23	Thank you. Viacheslav Kirilenko, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u24	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “For Ukraine!” Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! We also called an emergency session last year, but it was associated with the flood, and it really needed to be done because we had allocated many billions of bracelets to eliminate the effects of the disaster. This year we are calling in one order of the day, not us, but one of the factions of Parliament, but we are deciding: we are now going to share money for some bankers and banks, power for future presidents who are already comparing the crown, and we are not going to consider the key issues. In this regard, I have a question from the “For Ukraine!” group: who personally assumes responsibility for the fact that question 1375 will not be considered today, is absolutely ready to cancel the parliamentary immunity? Does the Parliamentary Speaker take responsibility personally, or does the Party of the Regions take responsibility, or does the faction “Blok Timoshenko” take responsibility? Give us an answer and an answer to the electorate. It's important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u25	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u26	Dear colleagues, what do we see today during the time when the Supreme Council was blocked? A deliberately simplified, superficial response by the government to the proposal for a cost-effective minimum of living, social standards. Instead of identifying the obvious fact that the State's guaranteed social standard is clearly underestimated, it not only contributes to the reproduction of the labour force but also does not provide the physiological standards of simple survival. We'll see constant debates here. Well, look, the government has not fully provided the Constitution with guaranteed free educational and medical services. So there must be some compensation. So I want to let you know that the Party of Regions will not deviate from its demands. We believe you. To the national deputies of Ukraine from the ruling coalition, we trust you, our colleagues in the hall, that this issue will be considered in August. But remember, we will not turn our backs on this question. And our session today is legitimate, we have the right to consider our bills. I suggest.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u27	Dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts. Now, let's talk about the suggestions that have been made. As for Taras Blackwall's proposal for non-fractionals to have the right to speak. I'm going to ask the Regulatory Committee, we've actually come up with new realities, we're going to look at this and make appropriate proposals so that we can approve them. In terms of personnel matters, namely, the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Foreign Affairs. You have absolutely logic. But at the same time, we have the Supreme Council, and we have to be honest, we can only work when two of the biggest factions are negotiated. If they have deviated from their positions on human resources, I think these issues are the most important. I'm willing to put these questions to a vote on the condition that the rostrum is not blocked. Regarding Andrew Portnoy, I would like to say, dear colleagues, I have stressed that, for as long as I am in charge, I am obliged to do so. And for a fellow lawyer, I will read once again part two of article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine: “The successive sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, with the determination of the agenda, are convened by the Head of the Supreme Council at the request of the President of Ukraine, but at the request of not less than one third of Ukraine’s national deputies from the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.” Everything else is your political reasoning, which is why I was obliged to warn you when they would appeal to the Constitutional Court and make the MPs aware. Because then why collect 150 signatures, take the initiative, if it's all reworked in its own way? With regard to the proposal by Viacheslav Anatolyovich Kirilenko I ask Vjacheslav Anatoliyovich, you lead the group, you come to the Conciliation Council so that I do not tell what is going on at the Conciliation Council. I suggested different options for considering Bill 1375. So you can look into people's eyes. There is no support. We face a dilemma: either making the decisions we agreed to make, or another blocking of the rostrum. And regarding Jaroslav Suhogo's proposal. Here, obviously, we agreed that since 419 people's deputies voted to re-read this bill, it is clear that only one way is to accept it, but in such a way that it is implemented. And now, dear colleagues, I am voting on the approval of our schedule for the extraordinary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on July 24. That's the bill, I'll just read the numbers, 4741, 4630, 5009, 4817 and 5011. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:17:32]] For 361 Decision taken. Let us now consider the issues identified by the schedule for the next session. A draft Act amending certain legislative acts relating to the election of the President of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[second reading]] The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, Upper Sergey Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u28	Honorable National Deputies, Your Honor! First of all, I do not want to agree with those who said that this law is not necessary today, that it is not to be expected. They're waiting. And those 300 heads of rural, rural, gathered here today are waiting for this law. Because the law provides for a conceptual change in the electoral process, which means saving the budget. At the request of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government at its meeting on July 14 considered comments and suggestions from the law-makers to the draft law of Ukraine amending certain legislative acts. Registration number 4741 from 30.06, which was accepted on the first reading on July 1. The committee received 469 proposals and amendments from 23 entities under the law of the legislative initiative. Taking into account the debate created by the bill on the formation of electoral commissions for factions formed in the current Supreme Council call, the drafters made several amendments to the bill that changed the conceptual system of election committees. This is the proposal to form an electoral commission for the appointment of President of Ukraine. Thus, amendments to a number of deputies were partially or editorially taken into account: Ruslana Knazević, Arsenija Yatsenuk, John Hare, Yuri Karmazin, Anatolia Griesenka and others. Amendments that were not part of the bill’s concept were voted in the first reading and rejected by the committee. The committee prepared a comparative table for the second reading. But it should be noted that some technical inaccuracies have been made. So what I want to do under the stenogram is give you the following clarifications to a comparison table. On page 16-19, in part two, in article 23, we read: “The Territorial Electoral Commission shall be formed by the Central Electoral Commission no later than 50 days before the election day in which the head, deputy head, secretary and other members of at least 12 persons”. In part three, replace “one by one” with “two by one”. Page 22 of the Comparative Table. Part 3.1. Article 23: “and, also, in the case of the application of the drawing mechanism”, exclude. On pages 31-32, in article 24, the first part of the edition “the electoral committee shall be formed by an appropriate territorial election commission no later than 26 days before the election day in the head, head, secretary and other members of the commission of not less than 12 persons”. See page 37. In part 5 of article 24, the word “third ” should be replaced by the word “second. ” See page 38. In article 24, paragraph 6, replace “territorial” with “shared” words as well as in the case of the application of the drawing mechanism, delete page 39 in part 7 of article 24, replace the word “to territorial” with the words “to the divisional composition”. See page 40. In part 8, replace the word “third” with the word “second”. See page 90, part 1, of the article.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u29	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u30	Replace the word “abo” with the word “a”. Page 106. In part 10 and 12 of article 36. 1 also replace the word “or” with the word “a”. Page 108. In part 2 of article 36.2 after the words “introduction authorities” add the word “public”. So, page 114-115. In article 49, part one, replace the words “five hundred thousand” with the words “two million five hundred thousand” and part two, the words “the money freeze is returned to the party, to the party that is part of the bloc that has put the candidate for the pots of the President of Ukraine or the candidate for the post of President of Ukraine, who is included in the ballot paper for the re-vote.” If the candidate for the post of President of Ukraine is not included in the re-voting ballot, the monetary deposit shall not be refunded and shall be counted in the State budget of Ukraine. On page 316. In article 85, part 8 of this edition, the “territorial election committee shall no later than five days before the day of the re-election of candidates for the post of President of Ukraine, which shall be included in the re-election ballot, shall form a new composition of 16 persons per election panel, from 8 persons per candidate to a re-vote ballot.” Page 318. In part 15 of article 85, the words “as on the fifteenth day” are replaced by the words “as on the tenth day”. And page 338. Correct the references in part 6 of article 99, which refers to itself and is recorded in part 5 of this article. In the light of the above, the Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with article 123, part 1, paragraph 3, of the Rules of the Supreme Council, to adopt a second reading and, as a whole, a draft law in the Committee, which takes into account the clarifications I have announced. At the same time, the committee points out that the bill needs technical editing.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u31	Dear colleagues, let's do this. I'm asking you, if we're going to work like this, you're going to forgive me for accepting the law. I beg you, what you have heard we will put to the vote. Well, that's different. Well, now that we get to your amendment, please speak. How so, fellow believers. Dear colleagues, the honourable reporter, let's go to the amendments and if the MPs have a comment or amendment to the amendment, or if there is a requirement to vote on the amendment that is supported or rejected, then we will vote. I think we should stop this practice on the move to rule something. Let's do the repairs. Amendment number one of the People's Deputies of Stishenko. Are you insisting on her? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u32	The amendment was rejected by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u33	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, in view of the fact that this bill supports a fairly high political degree in this session hall, and the committees are formed, and the committee is profiled by a proportional representation, I agree with all the decisions of the committee and call on other subjects of the legislative initiative to do likewise so that we do not destroy the concept, otherwise we will have nothing today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u34	Thank you. Correction. Please, Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u35	Thank you. Martinuk is a faction of Communists. I have a proposal not to support the first article that the territorial election commission should be replaced by a district election commission. You and I seem to want to modify, unify all electoral legislation. Now, in our sense, the territorial electoral commission is the electoral commission that's in the territory, whether it's the territory of the district, whether it's the territory of the city or the territory of the area, looking at where the deputies are going. There's a district election committee and there's a district election committee. In the Presidential Elections Act, we have somehow eliminated the notion of a “district election commission”. Why? So the territorial election commission is being eliminated. Why do we do this and eliminate it? We have to leave it the way it was, because it would have been unified, and it would have been easier for us to adopt the Electoral Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u36	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u37	On the contrary, the Law on the Election of People’s Deputies provides for district commissions. The Presidential Elections Act provides for territorial election committees, but these are district commissions. And so the authors suggested that the word “territorial” should be replaced by the word “districtual” so that we do not have any confusion. And the territorial election committees are exclusively in the territory of the local elections. Thank you. So it's an amendment. So what the authors proposed was taken into account by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u38	Dear Adam Ivanovich, do you agree? It's basically the right thing to do. Amendment number 2. Ruslan Knyazevich, are you insisting on her? Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u39	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! For the simple reason that this is a good one, I think a lot of amendments are still in my line of work, I'm going to try only to insist on those that, as far as I'm concerned, are technologically important. If the basic philosophy of this law, including the saving of money that is allocated to the electoral campaign at such a difficult time, we have heard so much about it today, let us start with a small one. For example, why publish all the programs and all the decisions of the relevant commission in the two newspapers “The Voice of Ukraine” and “The Government courier”? I'll tell you from practice, the point is not every newspaper gets out every day, but the decision has to be published around here almost every day. So the newspaper that goes out that day publishes such a decision, conditionally. If this requirement is to be maintained, an additional circulation is to be made virtually every day. And it's not budgeted for. In the CEC, this problem has already been solved in the Law on the Election of Deputies. Why the Presidential Act should be left behind again, I don't understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u40	Please make a proposal to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u41	The committee rejects this amendment and the CEC agrees. In view of the fact that not everyone is a citizen or subject, it is a newspaper. They're writing out some kind of one, usually. That's why you have to print both in this one and that one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, do you insist on voting on this amendment? Well, I'll put it to a vote. Because this is about the committee proposing that documents be published both in the newspaper Voice of Ukraine and in the “Governmental courier”. Ruslan Knyazevich offers either in one newspaper or another. That's it. Or, or. Or, or. Since the author insists on the amendment, I put to the vote amendment number two, Ruslan Knazević. Please vote. [[12:29:15]] For-47 The decision is not taken. Third amendment. Are you insisting on her? Please, Knyazevitch microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u43	Dear colleagues, there is one very important thing here. In fact, in the article I am proposing, there are many points. But it's very interesting and very important. Item seven. He's saying that if you leave a valid editorial, according to a valid editorial, in any area in Ukraine, any citizen can vote for a few passports. Like me. I can vote for a diplomatic passport, for a nationwide passport and for an international one. I can vote three times. The same amendment says that foreign and diplomatic, I can only vote in foreign polling stations. If we leave a valid standard, we will have the vacchanalia we had in 2004, when hundreds of thousands of people for three passports voted universally in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u44	Would you please take the seat of the committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u45	The committee rejected the amendment. It applies to the entire second article. The authors proposed a change of only part six. Because in principle, experience shows that it is possible to leave the text that was in the law in force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u46	Dear colleagues, do you insist on voting? Well, the essence of the amendment is that a person should vote for one passport. I guess that makes sense. I put to the vote amendment number three of the People's Deputies of Knazevitch. Please vote. [[12:30:50]] For-53 Correction not supported. Amendment 4. Klukovsky doesn't insist? No, it's not. Amendment 5. Arsenius Yatzenuk insists? No, it doesn't. God’s Word — 6 Amendments? No, it's not. Knyazevitch, 7th Amendment, do you insist? No, it's not. Knazević – 8th Amendment? No, it's not. Knazević – 9th Amendment? No, it's not. 10, 11, 12, 13, 14 insists? Please, Knyazevitch microphone. What is the correction? 10th?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u47	I'm on 14th. Not even on this amendment, but on the list of observers who have the right to observe, as well as observers from public organizations. I don't know why we don't, because in all the other categories of elections, public organizations are already actively observing. This is not about all organizations that have more than a thousand, but about those whose statute provides for the same right of observation. And they've done pretty effectively with their powers. I don't know why we should be afraid of public observers and public control over the electoral process in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u48	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u49	The committee rejects this amendment, resulting solely from the technical capabilities of the polling stations. If we're going to the process of forming committees from candidates to the presidents, imagine what the commission will be. It will be at least 30 to 40 persons. Plus observers from candidates. That's another 40 people. So who's going to be in the precinct except for the voters? That's right, there won't be any voters. There will be only observers, and only commission staff, as well as the media. I think that if a public organization cooperates with a candidate, or with a political power, it will have its representatives there through candidates for the presidency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u50	I'm betting on the vote of 14th Ruslan Knazevitch. Please vote. [[12:33:05]] For-35 The decision is not taken. The following changes. Theological, 15th. Don't insist. 16th, Klukkowski, Podgorny, Sinchenko. Are you insisting on the amendment? The ceiling insists. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u51	Dear colleagues, this amendment refers to the fact that the electoral process should be appointed in 110 days at the latest. The authors offered 90 days. We have to give some deadline for the electoral commission, the Central Election Commission to be prepared at least. That's why 110 is proposed here, and the election process itself starts in 90 days.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u52	I'm voting on Amendment 16. [[authors - Klukkowski, Podgorny, Sinchenko]] [[12:34:11]] For the five of us.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u53	There's 90 days left.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u54	Correction not supported. Dear colleagues, regarding the amendments that have been taken into account. If anyone insists on them, we'll vote. If he doesn't insist, we just keep going. No objections? 17th amendment counted. 18th. John the Rabbit, do you insist on it? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u55	Ukrainian National Party, John the Rabbit I suggest that the territorial constituencies be formed with approximately equal numbers not of voters, but of districts. Why? Because in 2006-2007 we had this standard, and it justified itself very well. If we have in the text that the territorial constituencies are formed with about equal numbers of voters, this leads to a situation where one district can have 120 areas, for example, and another district can have almost 300 areas. And it is virtually impossible to organize work in this district, where there are almost 200 or 300 areas. Hence, these different types of delays were not to be summed up by the territorial district commissions. So I don't understand why the authors have moved away from the norm that has proven itself very well in previous elections. What's the point? The logic is just to do what you do.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u56	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u57	The committee rejected the offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u58	Dear colleagues, since the author insists on this amendment, I put it to a vote. [[12:36:07]] For-23 Correction not supported. Honorable colleagues, distinguished national deputies, in this regard. What I need to do is meet with the mayors of the cities, let Alexander Volodymyrovich continue the meetings, and I will meet with the mayors of the cities. Is there no objection? Please, Alexander Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u59	The nineteenth amendment is the national deputy Knjazević. Do you agree to the committee's editing?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u60	It's okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u61	It's okay. The 20th amendment is the national MP Carmazin. Do you agree? The twenty-first amendment is the People's Deputies of Klukkowski, Podgorny, Senchenko. Do you agree? They're getting along. The twenty-second amendment is the national parliament of the Hare. The Microphone is the people's representative of the Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u62	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. I'm talking about. I don't think there's a special regime here for special polling stations. And the point of my amendment is that you have to create so many areas in special institutions that would allow you to control this process that would eventually allow you to vote. Because there is one facility, but a regulatory institution and, for example, one room is isolated from another. Therefore, those who have to vote do not have the right to move from one room to another. The same is true of the fact that a division will be created. It is not clear how to secure a vote. Because, on the one hand, we are going to violate the rights of those who have to vote, and on the other hand, it is not possible to ensure an organizational vote. So I'm going to suggest that we do create as many polling stations as we have to do to ensure the mode of movement.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u63	Amendment No. 22 shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:38:20]] For the 15th. Correction not supported. 23rd Deputy Knyazevich insists? No, it's not. The 24th, the people's representative of the Hare. It's the people's rabbit MP's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u64	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. The point of my amendment is that if the application for the establishment of constituency does not meet the requirements of this law, the District Electoral Commission decides to return the application for immediate admission in accordance with the requirements of the law or to decide for itself on the establishment of the constituencies in accordance with the requirements of the law. And so it turns out that we have divisional commissions that are essentially not responsible for anything. And that's why I'm introducing responsibility with this amendment, and this amendment technologically ensures that we create the right conditions for the vote. I don't understand why the authors rejected this amendment. I just don't understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u65	Amendment 24 shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:39:38]] For -14 The decision is not taken. Correction not supported. 25th Amendment. Is the Rabbit's national MP insisting? Microphone, please, the people's representative of the Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u66	Again, we have to eventually involve all the subjects of the electoral process in this process. What is the point of this amendment? The point of this amendment is that electoral special offices were created on the basis of the submissions made by district government administrations or city executive committees, otherwise again, we go beyond all the subjects of the electoral process. And whoever wants to do this is going to create all these special polling stations in special institutions. I'm saying, I don't understand why the authors don't want to go the way when legislation creates order when legislation creates real conditions. And so it seems that this bill has been written in order to win the political power that has a greater raid experience -- do whatever you want, don't consider any law, form election lists as you want, form election committees as you want.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u67	Amendment No. 25 shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:41:11]] For the 15th. Decision Not Adopted 26, the People's Deputy of Klukkowski, does not insist. 27, National Deputy Knazevic, does not insist. 28 — National MPs do not insist. 29, please, microphone to Deputy Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u68	Dear colleagues! This is a very important amendment. What's this about? Remember the story when we had the desire to create 418 polling stations in the territory of the Russian Federation in Transnistria. The norm that predicted this order is easy and totally unregulated remains in the law. This requires an MMS and a dot. And my amendment says that it can only be done in special institutions within embassies, consulates. And also, at locations of military formations. If there's a big city and there's more than a thousand Ukrainian citizens living there, it's again possible to do so by submitting the MSS**. But if I don't do it now, to leave it there, it seems to me after the events that were mildly justified in 2004. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u69	Amendment 29 shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:42:33]] For-32 Correction not supported. Correction of the 30th. A national MP does not insist. 31st doesn't insist. 32nd. Don't insist. Thirty-three. People's deputy Knjazević. Are you insisting? 33rd Amendment. MP Knjazević's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u70	It's a technical thing. The point is, I'm proposing that the Central Electoral Commission do not recognize as a successor to the territorial election committees. Because that's what happens in practice, because they're going to be amazed at their time, and then they're going to stop their work quickly after the election, and the Central Election Commission is going to take a long time for their sins, which there's no relationship to them, first of all in the financial field. This rule of the Law on the Election of Deputies and this rule of law are about local elections. Let's kind of unify. It's a purely technological thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u71	Amendment 33 shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:43:46]] For-32 Correction not supported. 34th Amendment. Are you insisting?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u72	Yeah. So in the 34th amendment, what I said is technically needed at the end of the second part "at least 12 people". It's counted, but without those words. You have to add that. Page 16 in the table. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u73	Yes. That's the committee's decision. There is no objection, we put to the vote then amendment 34 Kolesnikova, Lukas, Portnova, taking into account the addition of the current report. Please identify yourself. [[12:44:44]] For 314 The amendment is supported by an editor who is now the reporter for this law. 35th. People's deputies don't insist. 36th. Deputy Knazevich. Don't insist. 37th. National Deputy Carmazin. Don't insist. 38th Amendment. Is there a miscalculation?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u74	Yes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u75	So it's just technically not one person at a time, but two people at a time. This is page 18. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u76	Dear colleagues, there is an amendment to the vote number 38 of the people's deputies of Kolesników, Lukas, Portnova, taking into account the change that the reporter is currently making, the change is that not one candidate in the commission is proposed, but two. I'll bet you a vote, please. [[12:45:58]] For 305 Correction supported. Thirty - nine amendments. A national MP does not insist. Forty-sort repairs. A national MP does not insist. Forty-first amendment of the Yatsenuk People's Deputy. Arsenius Petrovich does not insist, nor does he agree. Forty-two. MP Klukkowski does not insist. Forty-third amendment. People's MP Griesenko. Don't insist. Forty-fourth amendment. You're insisting on the rabbit's deputy? It's the people's rabbit MP's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u77	John Rabbit of the Ukrainian People's Party. Ladies and gentlemen, you know that this is the chapter that was most criticized because in the original version the drafters proposed to form election committees with factions. They ran into a lot of resistance. Now they're coming in from the other side, but it's the same thing. Today we allow election committees to form presidential candidates, but they have still removed the restrictions on the composition of election committees. So this is how they start the mechanism, so let's say, stimulating technical candidates. And there's going to be a competition between two megablocks -- the Party of Regions block and the “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko” -- who's going to buy more technical candidates, and who's going to be in control of election committees. Because it's the election committees that the drafters of this bill are supposed to be a counterfeiting mechanism. They have the right to change the election lists regardless of the courts, regardless of the people, and thus want to form a commission in such a way that it does.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u78	Dear John Alexanderovich, what you're suggesting is not what you're saying in the microphone right now, because you're sending to the order defined by this law. And the law in its original form does not provide for any restrictions. The amendment of the people’s MP Hare 44 is a vote. [[12:48:19.]] For the 17th. Correction not supported. 45th. The People’s Deputy of God’s Word does not insist. 46th. A national MP does not insist. 47th. People's deputies, Grizzenko and Yatzenuk, don't insist. 48th Amendment. Please let me talk to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u79	Ladies and gentlemen of the national council, your honor! I just want to look at page 22 of this table, paragraph 10. Here the amendment is included, but in the table itself in the fourth column the words “if the drawing mechanism is applied” should be deleted.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u80	Well, that's a technical amendment, because we don't have this mechanism in the law. I put to the vote a vote in accordance with the law on the deletion of words that refer to drawing. Please support me. [[12:49:23]] For 292 Decision taken. 49th Amendment. People's deputies don't insist. 50th Amendment. Don't insist. 51st Amendment. People's deputies don't insist. 52nd Amendment. Is there a miscalculation?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u81	I won't.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u82	None. 53rd Amendment. A national MP does not insist. 54th. He doesn't insist either. 55th. Accepts the deviation. 56th. Don't insist. 57th Amendment. Is there a miscalculation? None. 58th Amendment. National MP Griesenko insists? Don't insist. The 59th, the people's representative of the Hare. Don't insist. The 60th, the People's Deputy of God's Word does not insist. 61st National Deputy Knyazevich doesn't insist. 62nd, Matthew, insists. Please, microphone to the people's deputy of Matvienka.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u83	The Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, the block of Our Ukraine, the People's Self-Defense. Alexander Volodymyrovich, as in the first reading of the concept, when the nucleus formed by factions, and so all of my amendments were related to some kind of democracy, so I suggest that when the concept changed, all of my amendments to this part, I don't insist, so I won't comment on them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u84	Thank you. This is also true of amendment 63. 64th Amendment, national MPs don't insist. 65th, no insistence. 66, don't insist. 67th Amendment. Is there a miscalculation? There's no objection. 68th Amendment, no insistence. 69th Amendment, Knyazevich does not insist. 70th Amendment, National MPs, do you insist? No, they don't. 71st amendment, negative count. Please let me talk to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u85	So it's an honorable chairman. It's on the table. On page 31, we have just arrived, part of the first article 24. Here you have to add at the end: not less than 12 people. Again. Part one of the first article 24, to be added: Not less than 12 persons.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, it is suggested that the committee complete the amendment. I'm putting to the vote Amendment 71, taking into account the addition that the reporter is currently making. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:52:42]] For 302 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u87	Alexander Vladimirovich, this is not the 71st amendment, this is page 31, part one of article 24. And in the 71st amendment, you have to replace "one person" with "two people". So the first part: we add 12 people, and the second part we add two people, on the next page.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u88	Please, then we have to make these proposals, because this is what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u89	Well, we voted 12 people.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u90	We have set a minimum number of persons on the district commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u91	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u92	Now. We have on page 32 of Amendment 71, which suggests that part two of Article 24 be excluded. This amendment is recommended by the committee for support. There's no objection to the people's deputies? Please, then, what should be the clarification of the text proposed by the committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u93	In part two of this article, on the 24th, replace "by two persons".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u94	The committee's proposal for this amendment is for me to vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:54:21]] For 294 Decision taken. The 72nd amendment is partially accounted for, the MP is not insisting. The 73rd amendment has been counted. Is there a miscalculation? None. 74th Amendment. A national MP does not insist. 75th. A national MP does not insist. 76th. National rabbit MP, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u95	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. Once again, I want to draw your attention to the point. Here's my amendment, written in part. Yes, it takes into account that candidates for the office of President of Ukraine have the right to apply for election boards. And we've just heard, as you can see, we've heard proposals that we need a minimum number of commissions, and we don't need to set the maximum number of commissions. What does this talk about? This is saying what I'm saying once again is that the mechanism for stimulating purchasing starts if you want technical candidates. And that would be the case when the commission was 50 or 60. It's not working. In such a situation, it will have to be ensured. So it will be necessary to either impose criminal responsibility on people, or in some other way. So this mechanism, which is set up in law, is basically bad. It's a mechanism -- just two megablocks, regardless of the Constitution and the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u96	Amendment of the people’s MP Rabbit number 76 is a vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:56:07]] For the 15th. Correction not supported. 27. 77th Amendment, no insistence. 78th Amendment, no insistence. The 79th Amendment, the People's Deputy doesn't insist. The 80th Amendment, the People's Deputy doesn't insist. 81st Amendment, is there a objection? None. 82nd Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u97	No, it's not. On page 37, a purely technical amendment in part five of article 24, replace the word “third” with the word “second”. It's a link, we've changed it, the number has changed, and it hasn't changed. Page 37, part.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u98	It's a technical thing, it doesn't need a vote. Because it is clear that part five is becoming, here in article 24, the word “third” should be replaced with “second” because the decision to delete has already been made.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u99	And if you can do that right now, Alexander Volodymyrovich, on page 38-39, is still purely technical when we're moving from the table to the table, we're talking about the divisional commissions, and we're writing a "territorial election commission." So these words need to be replaced.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u100	So, as far as page 38 in article 24, paragraph 6, replace the word “territorial” with the word “unitary” because we have already voted on this amendment, and the words “and also in the case of the application of the drawing mechanism” should also be deleted because there is no such mechanism. And on the 39th, the same applies in part seven of article 24 to replace the words “pre-territorial” with the words “pre-regional”. It's legal-technical stuff, they don't need a special vote. Let's do it again. The 82nd Amendment, the People's Deputy doesn't insist. 83rd Amendment. A national MP does not insist. 84th Amendment. A national MP does not insist. Eighty-five. People. Is there a miscalculation? There's no objection. 86th Amendment. The National MP does not object to the drafting of the committee in which it is included? He doesn't mind. 87th Amendment. Is there a miscalculation? There's no objection.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u101	Alexander Valentinovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u102	We have, I just want to tell you, this is also a legal-technical thing, on page 40, on part eight, the word "third" has to be replaced by the word "second," because it comes out of the amendments that we have already voted on. No, it's legal-technical stuff. 87th Amendment, is there a miscalculation? None. 88th Amendment. A national MP does not insist. 89th Amendment. Is there a miscalculation? None. 90th Amendment. The National MP doesn't insist, 91st, national deputy of the Hare. Please, it's the people's MP's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u103	You're already sorry, but you have to have someone read to the Ukrainian National Deputies. It's not the national MPs, it's the vending machines. What is the point of this amendment? It is to rule out, for example, the influence of heads of institutions or, for example, in the army, or, for example, in the medusa or in the prison, for example, in the voting process. And already in 2006, in 2007, we had a standard that prohibited us from being part of the election boards of the employees of these respective establishments. And she did a great job. Once again, we ignore this positive, we ignore the democratic norm, and we talk about what might come in, in fact, maybe the revenue of the electoral commission, the employees of the institutions where this special commission is created. So here we will have a direct impact on the will of those who find themselves in a special institution. Good people, where are we going? To democracy whether we're going back to that authoritarian and totalitarian communist regime.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u104	Amendment No. 91 of the Hare’s People’s Deputies shall be subject to a vote. [[13:00:47]] For the 17th. Correction not supported. 92nd Amendment. The MP doesn't insist. 93rd Amendment. The MP doesn't insist. 94th Amendment. A national MP does not insist. 95th? The 95th amendment is the committee's proposal. Please, microphone, there's a question for the people's deputy Lukas at 95.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u105	I don't have 95, I have 82 in this case. I don't have a question for 95. This is an amendment of the People’s Deputy of God’s Word that is counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u106	I noticed you had some objections. Is there no objection?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u107	No, there is no objection.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u108	There's no objection. 96th Amendment. A national MP does not insist. 97th Amendment. People's deputies insist?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u109	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u110	No, it's not. The 98th Amendment, they don't insist. 98th Amendment, People's Deputy Zadirko. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u111	Thank you. The thing is, I'm asking you very much, at least sometimes look in the hall, because when I'm 65, I've signalled it in some way, you haven't seen it. This is about the formation of district election committees. The point is that in 2004 the third round of technology was involved when members of the electoral boards were taken from western Ukraine to the East and vice versa. Now actually, this norm and the experience that allowed in 2004 in the third round more or less objectively to actually hold the elections, it's going to go bad now. So I think I support the speech of the national MPs who say that this law is anti-legal, anti-national. So, in my opinion, this rule of formation, both the district election boards and the amendment, my 65, when I raised my hand, you didn't respond to my hand, after the formation of the territorial electorate.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u112	Let me finish the People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u113	After the formation of the territorial electoral commissions by persons who do not live in the district, I think that's pretty principled, because my experience of holding elections, for example in the east of the Donetsk region, tells me that people will be told how to calculate it, so it will be counted. So, as far as I'm concerned, it's a very principled thing. I think it's the law that, the amendments in 2004, about the third tour and the acquisitions of democracy that had to be preserved right now. So I would ask you to put 65 amendments to the vote and 98, because, as far as I'm concerned, I'm still underscoring the right to form committees for people who don't live in the district, that's pretty serious.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u114	Thank you. Amendment No. 65 of the People’s Deputy is put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:04:38]] For-22. Correction not supported. Amendment No. 98 of the People’s Deputy Zadirko takes the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:05:02]] For the four of us. Correction not supported. 99th Amendment of the people's representative of the Hare. The Microphone to the People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u115	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose this amendment. Wait, we've already talked about the 99th amendment, Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u116	Ivan Aleksandrovitch, you did not follow carefully. We just walked up. The 98th was the national deputy of Kick-Ass, and now it's yours. If you don't object to the committee's decision on rejection, then we won't turn on the microphone. All of it. 100th Amendment. Is there a rebuttal? There are no objections to accounting. 101st Amendment. A national MP does not insist. 102nd. A national MP does not insist. 103th Amendment. Is there a miscalculation? None. 104th. The people's representative of the Hare. Are you insisting? It's the people's rabbit MP's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u117	The Ukrainian People's Party, John the Rabbit. The point is that the substance of this amendment is to improve the technique of writing this bill. If we are already talking about the fact that the election committee is formed on behalf of the Presidential candidate and this candidate can only submit one person to the Presidents, then what we are writing or leaving in the bill is the rule where it is said that the head, deputy head and secretary of the electoral commission cannot be represented by one candidate for the post of President of Ukraine. But they can't automatically be because one candidate at a time. So what kind of technique is our legislator and what is this attitude towards amendments to the national MPs? What did the commission do? How were the deputies guided when they rejected the amendment? Because this amendment simply improves the text. It shows that our legislator knows what a legal norm is.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u118	Since we voted 20 minutes ago we now have two candidatures from everyone, so it could be from one person's head and secretary, so this rule is required by law. Do you insist on voting? Amendment of the People’s Deputy Hare Number 104 shall be subject to a vote. [[13:07:43]] For the 15th. Correction not supported. 105th Amendment. Is there a miscalculation? None. 106th Amendment. National deputy Knjazević, insist? Don't insist. 107th Amendment. A national MP does not insist. 108th Amendment. People's deputies don't insist. 109th Amendment. A national MP does not insist. 110th. Don't insist. 111th. The MP doesn't insist. 112th. Is there a miscalculation? There's no objection. 113th. People's deputy Knjazević. Please, the microphone of the People's Deputy Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u119	I'm pointing out that this is about such an important thing as publishing and announcing the results of the elections. Indeed, the Constitution refers to the declaration of results, and electoral legislation has been publicizing for many years. Since the decision of the Central Electoral Commission on the results of the election cannot be made public in a verbal way. Well, that's eloquent. Any other decision is published. And we say that even in two newspapers, it is absolutely necessary. And the decision on the outcome of the election is no. I understand why. Because we had that in 2004, and then in order to protect the suit, it was stopped, and eventually it led to the third round. But I think in this case it might cause such an unwanted resonance, so I think we should leave a valid editorial. The question is very important. And how is it possible for me to question the results of the elections in general? Because in oral, verbal form, it's just to announce the President's ceremony and not even publish the results of the election in the media as far as I'm concerned, it's pretty questionable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u120	Amendment No. 113 of the People’s Deputy Knazević is subject to a vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:09:44]] For-22. Correction not supported. 114th. A national MP does not insist. 115th. Is there a miscalculation? None. 116th. The People's Deputy Knyazevich does not insist. 117th National MP doesn't insist. 118th National Deputy Knyazevich does not insist. 119th, the National MP doesn't insist. 120th, people's deputy rabbit, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u121	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. What is the point of this amendment? I want to keep the norm that worked before and that tested itself as a democratic norm. The point is that the electoral commission, by an effective standard, can make a reasoned decision to deprive persons of their right to be present at meetings listed in parts nine there and ten there, two thirds of their composition. What the authors want. The authors want to put in place a standard where most of this observer is removed. That is, people's right to observe the electoral process is weakening. You've heard the rapporteur for the amendments to the bill speak, but we're going to have so many members of the commission, and so many observers, and others, where we're going to put them and so on. These are the motives where we're going to put them, where we're going to distribute them, and it's the authors of the bill. Because they want to simplify the mechanisms or weaken the election observations. This is the real motive of those who turn away from the active one.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u122	Amendment 120 of the Hare’s People’s Deputies is subject to a vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:11:42]] For-9 The decision is not taken. Correction not supported. The 121st Amendment, the people's parliament of the Hare insists? It's the people's rabbit MP's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u123	Again, it's about providing, providing for the mechanism. I'm going to propose part 13 to put it this way. That the decision of the electoral commission is taken by an open vote by a majority vote from the panel. Again, we are being led to make decisions by a majority of the members of the commission present. Think about these things. What does this talk about? This suggests that any decision can be made by agreement between the two candidates. If such a situation occurs, even those members of the commission who come from one candidate. So let's face it, when we vote even for two candidates, we can create such a commission that the number of voters is not going to be in that fur as far as that committee is concerned. So this is what we're talking about. What we're going to do is we're going to have to ensure normal functioning.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u124	The amendment of the people’s MP Rabbit number 121 is a vote. [[13:13:19]] For-12. Correction not supported. Is there a denial regarding the 122nd amendment? None. It's a 123rd amendment. The MP does not object to the rejection. 124th Amendment counted. The MPs don't deny taking this amendment into account? No, it's not. It's the 125th. Deputy Kniezewicz's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u125	Dear colleagues! I'm very short. But this is a very important amendment. The point is that I propose a clear description of who has the right to be present at election board meetings. I realize that most of them may not be supported there, but there is a very important point five that is worth supporting, I think. The point is that law enforcement officials cannot be present in the voting room. If you leave a valid editor now, they will be “actively” helping to organize and conduct and calculate the elections. [[in quotes]] If this is taken into account, however, they will only be outside the constituency of law enforcement. If an incident occurs, the head, deputy, or secretary may invite her to settle the situation, as is the case with the election of the national deputies. If I don't, I'm just paying attention to you so that there won't be too many excruciating cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u126	Amendment No. 125 of the People’s Deputy Knazević is subject to a vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:15:01]] For-16 Correction not supported. The 126th amendment of the people's representative of the Hare. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u127	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. Ladies and gentlemen, calm down! Learn normal and you'll know what you're going to do. It is very important to clarify the rule against members of electoral committees from holding pre-election campaigns, since it applies to practical activities during elections of more than 500,000. persons are members of election committees of all levels. The current edition of part eight of article 28 of the Ukrainian Law contains a mixed formulation of the prohibition on members of election committees to conduct an autism that in practice leads to a different understanding of it by the members of the commission themselves. I propose, after all, to replace the words “in the course of the performance of my duties” with “in the course of all responsibilities”. Or he's sitting there on a commission, like he's doing his duty, going outside the commission, starting an agitation. 500 grand. People! You can imagine the effect that can be exerted on the will to go with the papers to call people to elections. So let's create democratic norms, let's not go back to the standards that will turn elections into the punishment of God.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u128	Amendment of the people’s representative Rabbit number 126 shall be subject to the vote. [[13:16:34]] For-9 Correction not supported. 127th Amendment. It's the people's rabbit MP's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u129	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. I'm here to finally normalize the relationship between an employee and one who is a member of a commission. Because you know that it's not once been that the employer doesn't want to let a person go to this public, but it's a very important political mission. And my proposal is to protect this person who wants to perform a very important function for the Ukrainian state. So again, I don't understand why the authors have deviated from the already tested democratic standard. And this was tested by parliamentary elections in 2006 and 2007. Again, we are moving away from it, and again we are putting a member of the electoral commission on hold, not just from the political power that pushes him up, but even from the employer. Because they're counting on the mega-blocks to be included in their businesses, and it's the managers of these enterprises that are going to be putting people on the election board.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u130	Amendment 127 shall be put to the vote. [[13:18:06]] For-13. Correction not supported. [[B in m in s a l in]] 128th Amendment counted. Is there a denial?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u131	None.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u132	None. 129th Amendment. It's the people's rabbit MP's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u133	Again, we're talking about the amendment, where it's about that the existing standard had at least two thirds of the members of the committee from its composition. And I propose. I'm going to propose that we step up this mechanism. However, the authors are weakening it. And so again, there's a legal basis where it's very easy to manipulate a commission, where it's very easy to manipulate observations, where it's very easy to turn a commission into a tool for counterfeiting elections by political forces. I'm against that ideology and this law. I want the law to give voters the opportunity to make real will. I'm asking the bill to put into such norms that exclude these external influences, which would not lead to the clash of two political forces, into two agreements.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u134	The 129th amendment shall be put to the vote. [[13:19:38]] For -8 Correction not supported. 130th Amendment. A national MP does not insist. 131st. Deputy Knjazewicz's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u135	It's a purely technological repair. The point is to give the respective status of the legal person to the territorial electoral commission. Why is this necessary? In order for her to open an account in the Treasury, to receive funds and to hold elections. So that he can make an appropriate covenant with the people he recruits. The last election, I just remember that on my skin, I survived, dozens of commissions delayed work only because the formal treasury required them to register properly, to obtain legal status. I see no reason not to vote for such an amendment. It's highly technological.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u136	Amendment No. 131 shall be put to the vote. [[13:20:45.]] For-16 Correction not supported. 132nd Amendment. A national MP does not insist. It's a 133rd amendment, not an insistence. 134th Amendment, no insistence. 135th. Is there a miscalculation? None. 136th Amendment. There's no insistence on the MP. 137, no insistence. 138th. Is there a miscalculation? None. 139th, the MP doesn't insist. 140th, the rabbit MP's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u137	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. What I'm offering. I propose to replace the word “citizen” with the word “electee” in all differences. Because in this section, you're allowed to blame the wrongs on the voters' list. But citizens are much broader than voters. Citizens are also incapacitated. That's why we let an incompetent person sue for such actions. I don't think that's right. And I think that this could become a mechanism of some kind of forgery again, and it'll make a person who doesn't understand what he's doing, a whole bunch of complaints, and then, on the basis of these complaints, they'll review all of these decisions. And they will distort the will of our citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u138	Amendment 140 shall be put to the vote. [[13:22:29]] For-12. Correction not supported. The next 141th amendment, the microphone of the people's representative of the Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u139	John the Rabbit of the Ukrainian People’s Party. Dear National Deputies! I would like this amendment to leave the right to make false accusations on the voter lists not only on the previous voter list, as stated here, but also on the updated voter list should be the subject of such a complaint. Because if we remove this part of the list, that means that we deprive citizens of the right to complain about the wrongs in the voter list. The editing of other parts of this article allows the complaint until the end of the vote. But two days before the day of the vote, the previous voter list no longer exists. And the specific is to be accused as though it could not be. The proposed amendment eliminates this inadequacy that can cause mass conflicts in the election in the matter of correcting errors in the voter list.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u140	141 amendments are put to the vote. [[13:23:57]] For the 10th. Correction not supported. 142nd Amendment. The rabbit’s national MP insists on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u141	John the Rabbit. Ukrainian People’s Party Ladies and gentlemen, calm down. If you don't want to read the bill, you'll find out during the election that you've stressed. Then we'll talk. So the point of my amendment is once again to improve the prosecution procedure, because today was the ideology of the State Election Register, and nobody under that ideology had the right to change the voter list. The drafters now allow the voter list to be changed even when voting an hour before the vote. You can imagine what's going to happen on these district commissions. Earlier, in 2004, although there were strong letters, this was done to launch the machinery of these wagons, trains, and other conflicts, and again the distortion of citizens’ will.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u142	Amendment No. 142 of Hare shall be put to the vote. [[13:25:28]] For the 10th. Correction not supported. That there are 143 corrections to the objections?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u143	None.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u144	None. 144th. The MP doesn't insist. 145th. The MP doesn't insist. 146th. The MP doesn't insist. 147th. Is there a miscalculation? None. 148th. The MP doesn't insist. 149th. The MP doesn't insist. 150th. Don't insist. 151st. Is there a miscalculation?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u145	None.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u146	None. 152nd. A national MP does not insist. 153rd Amendment. The National Deputies of the Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u147	The bill proposes a substantial extension of the legal mechanisms to challenge complaints of irregularities in the voter list, including in part the possibility of prosecution, including the court before and on the day of the vote. On the other hand, all the attention of the electoral committees before the day of the vote and on the day of the vote should be focused solely on the preparation and organization of voters. In this regard, and bearing in mind that, on the electoral day and the day of the vote, other complaints mechanisms are maintained by the voters of irregularities in the voter lists, it is appropriate to limit some of the functions of the electoral boards in relation to the voter lists, which require full electoral board meetings and full decision-making. So the point is that the legislator simplifies all of these procedures. Again, it creates the legal basis for volunteerism. Creates the right reasons for manipulating voters' lists. These things aren't allowed. The very ideology of the State Register of Voters is being destroyed.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u148	153rd amendment to the vote. [[13:27:28]] For -6 Correction not supported. 154th Amendment. A national MP does not insist. The 155th amendment of the people's representative of the Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u149	John Rabbit of the Ukrainian People's Party. I want to explain to you, the people's deputies, the essence of this bill and the essence of that policy that we implemented after the shameful forgerys that took place in 2004 during the presidential elections. All these years, we've been going to institute the National Electoral Register. And if such an institution were established, then there would be the stability of the electoral lists. And amendments to the electoral lists could be made in time before the vote. Now the authors have given up on that logic. They need a bill with the satisfaction of two megablocks, which will allow them to manipulate these electoral lists, as they say in the people "the gypsy sun". That's what's being proposed here today. My amendment is designed to make these standards more stringent. To be the stability of the election list. So you can't fake it. That's why you can laugh.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u150	The 155th amendment is a vote. [[13:29:06]] For the five of us. This amendment was supported by five Ukrainian national deputies. 156th Amendment. A national MP does not insist. 157th Amendment. A national MP does not insist. 158th Amendment. A national MP does not insist. 159th Amendment. A national MP does not insist. 160th. Don't insist. It's the 161st amendment. A national MP does not insist. 162nd. A national MP does not insist. 163th. A national MP does not insist. 164th. Accepts the deviation. 165th. That's the same. 166th Amendment. Is there any objection to this amendment? There's no objection. 167th Amendment. A national MP does not object to a rejection. 168th. It's okay. 169th Amendment of the people's representative of the Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u151	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. My amendment is aimed at eventually having the electoral commission carry out all the decisions of the registering authority and making appropriate changes to the voter list. Since the drafters rejected the idea of the National Electoral Register, because they create or transform the commission into a tool for manipulation, forging, they also need to do so in the direction of forming a voter list. So again, they're simplifying the news to the electoral board about the status of these electoral lists. They're actually removing the government register, they don't want to take these powers on themselves, and do whatever you guys want. The state register doesn't know what's going on. The Central Election Commission doesn't know. Citizens who have been removed from the complaint do not know. And we're going to divide the power by two. And we will have the will not the people, but the clans.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u152	Amendment of the People’s Deputy Hare No. 169 shall be made to the vote. [[13:31:33]] For-13. Contrary to the committee’s proposal, the amendment was rejected. Dear colleagues, on this page, the reporter at the outset told us that in part one of article 35, we need to replace the word or so. This refers to how the lists are refined. Changes to the specified voter list are made by the head, the deputy head, and the secretary of the electoral committee. There's a technical error, it's been made. But since this is changing the way, please support the text that is proposed by the committee that I have just heard. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:32:34]] For 257 Decision taken. This edition is supported. 170th Amendment, do you have a miscalculation? None. 171st Amendment, do you mind? None. 172nd Amendment of the people's representative of the Hare. There is no insistence on the national parliament of the Hare. He insists. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u153	I'm once again, it's from the level where the work of the national voter register is normalized because of the commission's work. So I'm still asking you to consider all of these adjustments. Because the previous amendment that you didn't take into account showed that you're being careless about reading the table, you're looking at the bill. You've been told something and you're voting. If one of your opponents told you, you didn't vote. And so, without a vote, you've given birth to all these contradictions today.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u154	The 172nd amendment shall be voted on. [[13:33:50]] For -6 The decision is not taken. Correction not supported. 173rd Amendment, People's Parliament of the Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u155	173th Amendment? Let's go through this amendment. I ask you to vote for her.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u156	173th amendment to the vote. [[13:34:25]] For two. Correction not supported. 174th, 175th and 176th amendments to the Hare People's Deputies. Please for three minutes, please make sure that we do not return several times.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u157	One at a time. You can't vote like that.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u158	We'll vote each.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u159	No, no, let's do it one at a time, uh, you know. John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. The procedure for including voters in the voter list requires clarification according to the legal mechanisms introduced by the bill. First of all, the electoral boards don't make decisions about making changes to the voter list. Second, such decisions are taken by the State Election Register. Thirdly, the 2004-2007 election practice shows that, in order to avoid the uncontrollability of abuse when entering voter registrations into the voter list, it is necessary that the corresponding entry be certified by the official of the DTC who signed this signature.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u160	Now, please, the 175th argument.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u161	But it doesn't make any sense, let's vote first and second and third, but separately.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u162	Amendment 174 shall be put to the vote. [[13:36:04]] For 1 A national deputy from all over the Supreme Council supported the proposal made by the national deputy Hare number 174. A vote is taken on amendment number 175 of the people's representative of the Hare. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:36:30.]] For -8 Correction not supported. Amendment No. 176 of the Hare People’s Deputies shall be subject to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:36:52]] For-7. Correction not supported. With 177 amendments in mind, is there a denial?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u163	None.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u164	178. Amendment of the people's representative of the Hare. Please, the microphone of the people's representative of the Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u165	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. Your Honor, do not comment on the decision of the Supreme Council as you do. Because the one who laughs is the one who laughs last. But if the national deputies voted in the morning that they would consider all these bills without interruption, they would have to sit still. And listen to me for a long time because I've been working on this bill for a very long time. I don't want our will to happen, well, let's say, "in terms," not by law. Therefore, all my amendments, honourable national deputies, you will vote. And you will sit down without food, or you will leave your cards to your neighbors and go, in turn you will eat.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u166	178 amendments to the vote. [[13:38:02]] For -6 Correction not supported. 179 revisions, people. The MP doesn't insist. 180, do you mind?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u167	None.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u168	None. 181 Amendment of the people's representative of the Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u169	What's that?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u170	Do you agree with the editorial?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u171	What's that? What's that?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u172	182 amendment, do you have any objection? There's no objection. 183rd Amendment. A national MP does not insist. 184th, do you mind? There's no objection. 185th, does the National MP agree with the committee? 186th Amendment, do you have a miscalculation? 187th, does the National MP agree with the committee? Edited. It's okay. 188th Amendment, do you have a miscalculation? None. 189th Amendment, no insistence. The 190th amendment, the MP doesn't insist. 191, it's okay. 192nd Amendment. The people's representative of the Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u173	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. The proposed revision of article 36, part 11, of the Law makes no sense, since it contains a reference to a standard that does not exist in the law in the Law 4741. It doesn't exist, it doesn't exist in article 84, it doesn't exist in any other article. Maybe the link was misremoved from other laws. So I want to clarify these things and correct these mistakes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u174	192nd amendment to the vote. [[13:40:01]] For the four of us. The decision is not taken. No correction supported. 193th Amendment. Is there a miscalculation? None. 194th Amendment. The MP doesn't insist. 195th Amendment. Is there a miscalculation? None. 196th. The MP doesn't insist. 197th. They don't insist either. 198th. Is there a miscalculation? None. 199th Amendment. The MPs don't insist. 200th Amendment. Is there a miscalculation? None. 201st Amendment. The MP doesn't insist. 202nd Amendment. The MP doesn't insist. 203rd Amendment. The MP doesn't insist. 204th Amendment. Is there a miscalculation? None. 205th Amendment of the People's Deputy of Klukkowski. The committee suggests that we take it into account. Any objections to the national MPs? There's no objection. The correction is counted. 206th Amendment. Is there a miscalculation? None. 207th Amendment. The MP doesn't insist. 208th Amendment. The MP doesn't insist. 209th. Don't insist. 210th. Don't insist. Is there a miscalculation in 211? None. On this page, fellow honourable colleagues, we have here in Parts 10 and 12 of the word "or" also have to be replaced by the word "a" -- according to how we have made decisions in the last time. Since this description here is essential, I'm voting on the proposal to take into account changes in parts 10 and 12 of article 36-1. Replace the word “or” with the word “a”. Please vote. [[13:42:30.]] For 256 Decision taken. 212th Amendment. Member of the Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u175	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. In view of the fact that the bill that we are considering has disappeared an article on the voters' lists for re-voting, I propose to introduce article 36-2 — “List of voters for re-voting”. And that's where the whole procedure goes. So, from my point of view, I think it's a very important norm, because it could be re-voting. If we don't include it, then we're planning something other than the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u176	212 amendments to the vote. [[13:43:30.]] For the Correction not supported. 213th Amendment counted. Is there a denial? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u177	Deputies! Here in the second part, the word “State” should be added. It's about a register, just the word "state" missed. Part two, page 108. You should add. “State registry authorities” should be.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u178	That's a legal-technical question, that's understandable. Given that the word “stately ” will be added. Is there a miscalculation? None. 214th Amendment. People's deputy Knyazevich insists? Don't insist. 215th, the deputy doesn't insist. 216th, no insistence. 217, no insistence. 218th, handsome. 219, I don't mind. 220th, all right. 221st amendment, no insistence on MPs. 222nd Amendment, no insistence. Amendment No. 223 of the People's Deputy Tomenka. Please, your amendment. 223rd Amendment. Please, Mikolo Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u179	Dear colleagues, over the last period, there has been a discussion of how we can make a list of presidential candidates through the money-gathering mechanism so that our citizens can have a choice between programs, strategies, and inadequate people leave them to deal with other issues. There was a big discussion. And I'm proposing as a compromise my proposal to formulate instead of 10 million dollars, 2.5 million dollars is a monetary mortgage.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u180	The committee agrees, since the opening statement said so. I'm voting on a proposal for a definition. Amendment No. 223, People's Deputy Tomenko, taking into account that the committee's editing is foreshadowed instead of 10 million dollars, 2 million dollars. Please be sure. [[13:46:12]] For 261 Correction of the Tomenka People's Deputy with regard to the Committee's proposals So it's in the committee's office that counts. As for part two of this article here, also, the committee proposed to make a change to the part that the mortgage is returning to the presidential candidates who are included in the balloting in the re-voting. Please identify yourself in this position of the committee. [[13:46:58]] For 263 Decision taken. 224th Amendment. National MP Bodnar does not insist. 225th Amendment. The MP doesn't insist. 226th Amendment. The MP doesn't insist. 227th Amendment. Deputy Klukkowski is in agreement. The 228th Amendment -- is there a miscalculation? None. 229th Amendment -- is there a miscalculation? None. 230th Amendment. The MP doesn't insist. 231st Amendment. The MP doesn't insist. 232nd Amendment. The MP's in favor. 233th Amendment. The MP's in favor. 234th Amendment. The MP doesn't insist. 235th Amendment. MP Philippeenko's good-looking. 236th Amendment. Deputy Klukkowski is in agreement. 237th Amendment. The MP does not insist 238th Amendment. There's no MP. 239th Amendment. The MP agrees with the committee. With regard to the 240 revisions, is there a denial? None. 242nd Amendment. Is the People's Deputies a denial? None. 242 revisions. The MP doesn't insist. 243rd amendment of the people's representative of the Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u181	John the Rabbit. Ukrainian People’s Party I think these applause say you're waking up. That you've probably eaten, national MPs. What is the point of this amendment? The essence of this amendment is to eventually define the term “pre-election campaign” because there is no such term in the bill, and this creates conditions for using, for example, news on television, using other technologies, running essentially a pre-election campaign, but recognizing it as a pre-election campaign, because the law does not even have the concept of “pre-election agitation”. What's he talking about? This is saying that once again there is a legal basis for very guilty agitation, and we've already seen that there are very powerful information technologies today that influence citizens' will. So I'm proposing a whole series of articles to normalize these things. In this case, it is the definition of "pre-election agitation". Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u182	243 amendments shall be put to the vote. [[13:49:59]] For -6 Correction not supported. 244th Amendment. The National Deputies of the Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u183	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. This amendment comes out of my previous amendment, and the whole point is to finally get the election campaign back on track, especially in television and radio. All these displays of high-level news that are now candidates for the Presidents as well as being used to impose their candidate on the electorate, on the other hand, are not created equal terms, because those candidates who do not have much money that is not in power today, who are essentially not responsible for the situation that has taken place in Ukraine, will not have the opportunities, equal opportunities, equal opportunities to run an advertising company. So this amendment just improves or ensures the equalization of candidates with the Presidents.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u184	Amendment 244 shall be put to the vote. [[13:51:28]] For the Correction not supported. 245th Amendment of the people's representative of the Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u185	In principle, it is important to regulate media coverage during the electoral process of the service and office activities of candidates for the post of President of Ukraine. And this amendment is specifically designed to bring this pre-election campaign back to normal. To standardize the coverage in the media of the service activity itself. Because we see very often today, even today, videos on television, on radio where social advertising seems to be being broadcast, as if reporting to officials for the results of their work, but they are thus written out, so it's said to be nothing other than a campaign of an already electoral nature. Therefore, this article is an obstacle to such things, and it introduces the activity of officials and makes it an equal opportunity for the agitation of different candidates. So it's a democratic norm that's tested itself already in 2006, in 2007 in the election of national MPs. Why do we give up what has been tested at times? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u186	Amendment 245 shall be put to the vote. [[13:53:00]] For two. Correction not supported. 246th Amendment. The national MP agrees. 247th Amendment. The People's Deputy Knyazevich does not insist. 248. The national MP agrees. 249. A national MP does not insist. 250th. People's MP Klukkowski agrees. 251. Don't insist. 252nd. Don't insist. 253. Don't insist. 254th. People's MP, Bully. Don't insist. 255, National Deputy Knyazevich does not insist. 256th, the MP doesn't insist. 257, handsome. 258, the MP doesn't insist. 259, Deputy Knyazevich does not insist. The 260s, the deputy doesn't insist. 261, MP handsome. 262th National MP in favor. 263rd Amendment, National Deputy Knyazevich does not insist. 264, Deputy Klukkowski does not insist. 265, Deputy Chevchenko handsome. 266, National Deputy Chevchenko? Please, the microphone of the people's deputy Shevchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u187	Colleagues, I just wanted to take this opportunity to draw attention once again to this cluster of questions. Because this and other amendments relate to the work of the media during the election campaign. Now the law is written in such a way that the election period is very uncomfortable for the media. Because there's a situation in the room that, unfortunately, these amendments now don't find consensus in the hall and they don't stand a chance of passing, I don't insist on voting for this amendment, for everyone else. But I want to call on journalists and MPs, and all those who are concerned about this issue, and as we continue to improve this law, we need to get closer to the constituency block, because we need to provide guarantees for the work of journalists during the electoral period. Now the law is very weak. I insist on all of my amendments to this chapter, including 275. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u188	Thank you. 267th, Deputy Knazevich? Please, the microphone of Deputy Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u189	What this amendment is about. According to a valid law, all candidates who are registered and who participate in the first round of voting are entitled to hold pre-election debates at the expense of the state budget. This absurdity, if you'll excuse me, which lasts two months there, should be paid by simple taxpayers at such a difficult time. Let us do what is done in most civilized countries. Or at least I suggest we do it this way. On the first round, it's all for personal election funds. And those who have gone to the second round, here the state can actually do it at the expense of appropriate television debates, because it's not that big of a cost. And these multimillion-dollar expenses in the first round, I think you can't say simply or simply, except by disbursing the costs, in other words, you can't call it. So I'd like you to count it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u190	The 267th amendment shall be put to the vote. [[13:56:31]] For-38 Correction not supported. 268th. The national deputy agreed. 269th. A national MP does not insist. 270th. He's a good-looking MP. 272nd. He's a good-looking MP. 273rd amendment of the people's representative of the Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u191	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. The point of my amendment is to clarify when members of the electoral commission are not allowed to conduct electoral agitation. Those who wrote the law wrote that members of the electoral commission were forbidden to hold a pre-election campaign while performing the duties of members of the electoral commissions. Imagine, a member of the electoral commission left the polling station, went to work, and was campaigning for some political power. Does he fulfill his duties or not? That is why I propose that, instead of this term, “under the responsibilities of the members of the electoral committees”, I write that “in the course of my term of office”. If he's already elected as a member of the election committee there for a month or two, please be kind, for the time being, don't lead the campaign, because you're a very important member of the election committee. We have a standard that allows us to break the law again and to pursue agitation for the benefit of one or the other.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u192	The 273rd amendment is a vote. [[13:58:17]] For the 17th. Correction not supported. 274th Amendment. MP Philippeenko does not insist. 275th. The national deputy Shevchenko agreed. 276th Amendment of the people's representative of the Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u193	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. The legislator in this part right now introduces inequality for different media outlets of different forms of property. My amendment is just to bring about this equality. And I came from the fact that this rule existed in the law on election of Ukrainian national deputies and it was tested in 2006 and 2007. However, once again, those who wrote the bill gave up what was checked to life, what ensured equality to the media and created mechanisms for the benefit of the media. What does this talk about? This suggests that the electoral process is to be distorted not only by the voter list, but also by the commission, even by the exclusion of the media, which would ensure the transparency of the elections themselves.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u194	276 amendments to the vote. [[13:59:50]] For -6 Correction not supported. 277th Amendment to the Hare Chamber.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u195	Again, this amendment allows the media to improve the situation. And in the case of a court finding a re-election dispute, or a one-time misapplication by the media of the requirements of this law, the court decides on a temporary, pending the completion of the re-trial, a suspension of the licence, or a temporary ban on the finalization of the electoral process for the release of the printed edition. I mean, I'm actually strengthening the court's defense. Because what the drafters are proposing today, they're essentially disenfranchizing the media. That's why I'm asking you to vote for this amendment. After all, let's give the media the opportunity to act as a fourth authority, to act as a whipper over those who have already agreed to distribute power in Ukraine. Because they don't need voters anymore, they don't need anything anymore. That's why they're building a legislative base where just by making arrangements, they'll do whatever you want.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u196	Amendment No. 277 of the people’s representative of the Hare shall be subject to the vote. [[14:01:15]] For the 10th. Amendment No. 277 of the Hare People's Deputies is not supported. Amendment 278. Please, is there a denial of rejection? It's the people's rabbit MP's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u197	Again, Mr. Yavorowski, I call your last name so that you have the right to a replica. Well, don't stop me from working if you don't want to work in this room. I checked the bill very carefully. And I've already brought you to your attention once before that those standards that are set today in the law on the formation of the voter list are the standards that prepare for counterfeiting. Those standards that are laid down in the form of election committees turn the commission into a fake tool. The standards that are now being set for the media, and even for the presidential candidates and their attitude towards the media, are not democratic again. So this rule is to regulate the relationship between the presidential candidate and the media. And I would like to vote for such a proposal, not express my dissatisfaction with the results of my work.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u198	The 278. amendment shall be put to the vote. [[14:02:45]] For the 15th. Correction not supported. 279th Amendment. Deputy Knyazevich does not insist. 280th Amendment. Edited. Do you agree with the authors? They're getting along. 281st Amendment. Is there a miscalculation? None. 282nd Amendment. The people's representative of the Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u199	What's that? 282nd? Alexander Volodymyrovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u200	Next amendment. Ivan Aleksandrovitch, please follow your at least correction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u201	I can't make it. Because that's how everyone keeps track that you just can't make it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u202	Amendment 282. Are you insisting?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u203	I insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u204	Amendment 282 shall be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u205	In this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u206	[[14:03:57]] For-7. Correction not supported. 283rd Amendment. Is there a miscalculation? None. 284th Amendment. National MP Zadirka insists, please, on the microphone, deputy zadirka.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u207	It seems to me that this amendment concerns the guarantee of the activities of the Presidents of Ukraine if we want to see democratic Ukraine and we want to see more or less democratically run through the electoral process. So I think they're kind of limiting the number of trusted people, if that's possible -- not very much. And I think my amendment doesn't make more than three trusted people, it makes sense. Because in principle with a person it can happen that whatever happens, it's got some other stuff going on. And if I highlight this election process in the East, there's not enough people in the constituency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u208	Amendment No. 284 of the People’s Deputy Kicks the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[14:05:18]] For the 10th. Correction not supported. 285th Amendment. Deputy Knazevitch, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u209	Dear colleagues! There are two important things here, I'd like your attention. The first concerns such a fact. In my amendment, it is proposed to remove the rule from the current law that the electoral commission may suspend for the time being its own discretion to authorize official observers. We have had cases of misappropriation of such powers entirely unfounded. They feel that he is somehow violating, let's say, discipline or order in the territory where the meeting took place. And it stops his mandate to do so. It's a completely wrongful act. And the second thing is very important. I propose that if the candidate has not gone to the second round of re-voting, then the observers should officially suspend their powers, because they are in fact no longer in the districts. Because their second tour is more interesting than those who really have their candidates. In order to avoid this confusion, so that the official observers can't, you know, allow some, let others -- they don't let there be absolute turmoil in this issue in the polling station, this issue has to be settled once and for all. The candidate did not pass, so please stop authorizing his observers.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u210	Amendment No. 285 shall apply to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[14:06:48]] For the 17th. Correction not supported. 286. Deputy Knyazevich does not insist. 287 does not insist either. 288 does not insist. 289, don't insist. 290, don't insist. 291 - don't insist. 292 – too. 293 – Deputy Asshole does not insist. 294 does not insist. 295 is not an insistent member of the People's Party. 296? Please, the microphone of Deputy Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u211	The point is that if they are able to give up the observer’s authority in due course, this important editorial work is still going on. [[I was just saying]] If they feel that his actions are somehow illegal, they simply deprive him of the right to participate in the meeting. He's just being kicked out of the polling station. I recall such occasions when, before the second round of 2004, thousands of official observers were unaccounted for for, for reasons that were not clear to the vast majority of the electoral commissions. To prevent that from happening, please consider my amendment, because this relapse, I think, is going to be played out a hundred percent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u212	Amendment No. 296 of the People's Deputy Knazević is subject to a vote. [[2:08:34]] For 20 Correction not supported. 297. Are you insisting? No, it's not. 298. Also. 299. You agree. 300th Amendment. People's Deputies, Chevchenka. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u213	Colleagues, I would like to draw attention to this amendment, its essence is very simple, and it's about letting us go to the polling station of independent observers. There is a very good and important tradition in Ukraine -- monitoring elections from public organizations. I think it's a very important and right tradition, because it's a step towards a powerful, strong civil society. Because we have now without this amendment the situation will be so much easier to become an observer in elections from countries of Pacific cooperation or from an international organization than from any public organization that is observing elections in Ukraine. The right of independent observers to be, to work in the polling stations is provided for by the Elections Act to the Supreme Council, to the local authorities, and, I think, this rule should finally be introduced into the President's Election Act, it is in line with European recommendations, supported by numerous social organizations. I would urge you to listen to their offer and support the right of independent observers to work in the field.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u214	Amendment No. 300 of Shevchenka’s people’s deputy is to be voted on. [[14:10:06]] For-27 Correction not supported. 301st Amendment. The deputy doesn't insist. 302nd Amendment. Deputy Knazevich. microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u215	Dear colleagues, this is a very interesting amendment. It's about what I'm proposing to ban the norm that we can be citizens of Ukraine from foreign states and international organizations. Because according to the law in force, this is permitted. And we had this case in 2004 repeatedly when we register the representation of some unknown international organization, and thousands of people -- Ukrainian citizens -- make their own proposals to be observers from an international organization or a foreign state. This question was the subject of the Supreme Court, and the Supreme Court has placed a dot on this issue once and for all. A Ukrainian citizen cannot exercise his rights in such a manner. He can do this as a country observer from the respective party or candidate. Period. Let's not leave this rule in its proper order again and agree with my amendment. It's technological and it's very important because there's going to be serious confusion and very long trials that will be endless, I think. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u216	Amendment No. 302 of the People’s Deputy Knazević is subject to a vote. [[14:11:32]] For-40 Correction not supported. 303rd Amendment. Don't insist. 304th, no insistence. 305th Amendment. There's no insistence on the MP. 306, no insistence. 307, no insistence. 308th. The MP agrees with the rejection. 309th. Please, the microphone of the People's Deputy Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u217	This is also a technological but extremely important amendment. The law says that the Central Election Commission gets the ballots in the package with the proper manufacturer -- and a dot. And what I'm proposing is that, just so she doesn't get it, she has to make an act of how many of these ballots she gets, and then publish this number of newsletters on her website, as it is in the election of the national MPs. And each one of them on the territorial district commission will tell us how many tickets he got, and how many Central Election Commissions he got. If that's not the case, then we can't find the system, because in practice it turns out that there's one thing on the top of the package, like in the fence, and in practice it turns out that in every package, almost every package, there's a discrepancy in the number of ballots. And there are hundreds of thousands of ballot papers within the state. Dear colleagues, I don't need it so you don't have a serious problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u218	The amendment of the People’s Deputy Knazević is subject to a vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[14:13:09]] For-22. Correction not supported. 306 amendment, no insistence. 307 does not insist. 308 does not insist. 309, Deputy Knjazevich does not insist. 310, MP handsome. 311, handsome. 312, MP handsome. 313, the national MP does not object. 314 MP Klukkowski agrees. Z15, national deputy of the Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u219	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. Which of you, the honourable national deputies, does not remember the 2004 election when voting was used in the house or at the constituency of the electorate, if any, to distort the will to vote. We have this bill, which is proposed for adoption, which is very weak in legal terms, about the procedures for preparing and organising vote for the voter's seat. So I'm proposing an amendment that borrows some of the elements of the legal mechanisms in the number provided for by the law on election of Ukrainian national deputies. And these procedures are minimally necessary for greater transparency in preparing for voting at the polling station. So I would like you to vote for these amendments. Otherwise, you're just going to create a legal basis for another huge forgeries by voting at the polling station.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u220	315 amendments shall be put to the vote. [[14:15:08]] Z-11. Correction not supported. 316 repairs, MP handsome. 317 - agreeable. 318 MPs don't insist. 319 Amendment - Handsome. 320, National Deputy Knjazevich does not insist. The 321st MP doesn't insist. 322nd Amendment, Deputy Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u221	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. Ladies and gentlemen, this is an amendment from the same line that you just didn't support. This amendment creates the legal basis for a transparent vote at home. And in the first case, I suggested that before the vote, the chairman of the committee should give us a figure on how many voters there are to go home to with the urn. In this case, I suggest that a list of such people be posted for public scrutiny. And so we would already know clearly how many of these voters there are, how many people it takes to get the members of the commission to go. So this process is becoming transparent. If you don't accept this amendment, once again you want the vote for the voter's seat to be an election counterfeiting mechanism, to be a will distortion mechanism.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u222	Amendment 322 of the people’s representative of the Hare shall be subject to the vote. [[14:16:58]] For-9 Correction not supported. 323rd Amendment. The MP doesn't insist. 324th Amendment. The People's Deputy Knyazevich does not insist. 325th Amendment. He's a good-looking MP. 326th, the MP doesn't insist. 327th Amendment, no insistence. 328th Amendment, Deputy Knyazevich does not insist. 329, MP handsome. 330th, MP handsome. 331st, handsome MP. 332-ha, no insistence. 333th Amendment, MP handsome. 334th, MP handsome. 335th, MP handsome. 336th, MP handsome. 337, we're in agreement with the MP. 338, we're in agreement with the MP. 339 amendment. Knieżević agrees. 340 repairs. The MP agrees. 341 revisions. Deputy Knyazevich does not insist. 342 revisions. The MP is in agreement. 343 revisions. It's okay. Please let me talk to you. There's a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u223	Dear colleagues! Page 276 of the chart. Part two, article 82. It should read as follows: “The session of the territorial electoral commission shall be set out in part one of the first articles and shall be drawn up by a protocol, without interruption, which shall be required to sign the head, alternate head, secretary or member of the commission who has served at the designated meeting of the Secretary.” Well, that's what you have to write down.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u224	And here on the reverse is the change instead of the "a" has to be put "or". Just like they changed words here. I'm voting in favour of editing the committee. Please make up your mind. [[14:19:31]] For 272 This edition is supported. 344th Amendment. People's deputy Knjazević. Do Not Urge 345th Amendment. The MP doesn't insist. 346th Amendment. Deputy Kick-Ass doesn't insist. 347th Amendment. MP Klukkowski does not insist. 348th Amendment. The MP doesn't insist. 349th Amendment. Deputy Knyazevich does not insist. 350th Amendment. There is a denial of amendment 350.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u225	351st Amendment. The MP doesn't insist. 352nd Amendment. Conciliation MP. 353rd Amendment. The National Deputies of the Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u226	John the Rabbit. Ukrainian People’s Party There are deputies. John the Rabbit. What this is about, what this amendment is about. The point is that the drafters of the bill propose to set a five - day limit on the summation of voting within the territorial constituency. Well, that would seem like a good plan. But people are good, these are the same, the same members of the district commission are blocking the decision-making process on a commission or commission. The District Election Commission does not have such protocols, and as a result it is the Central Electoral Commission that has the right to sum up without a district election commission protocol and, in fact, to ignore the entire tens of thousands of people. That's what this standard is all about. It's all about counterfeiting again. Not good for us, we're going to block the work and we're not going to get the results.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u227	The 353rd amendment is a vote. [[14:21:43]] For-9 Correction not supported. The 354th Amendment. He's a good-looking MP. 355th. I'm good. 356th. Deputy Knyazevich does not insist. 357th Amendment to the Hare Chamber.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u228	John Rabbit of the Ukrainian People's Party. Well, this standard that is proposed in the bill is the wonders of democracy in Ukrainian. The point is, they're offering to draw up the results of the election without the district election committee records. Because you can see that they couldn't make it on a five - day basis, but on the basis of the records of the district election boards. Is that not the knowledge of the electoral process? Because each and every one of you knows to get a protocol for a district election commission to the Central Electoral Commission can only go through the protocol of the district election commission. How do you want to deliver this protocol? Do you want to draw it on your knee, or do you want to exclude whole regions from the summary? That's the norm again. which allows for the radical falsification of the will of the Ukrainian people. So I'm saying once again that there's a plot of two megablocks and that's the result of this law, a nightmare law for the will of the Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u229	Amendment of the People’s Deputy Hare No. 357 is subject to a vote. [[14:23:18]] For-12. Correction not supported. 358th Amendment. The MP doesn't insist. 359th. Don't insist. Amendment number 360. The People's Deputy Knyazevich does not insist. 361st Amendment. Is there a miscalculation? None. 362nd Amendment. He's a good-looking MP. 364th. He's also good-looking. 365th. Is the objection taken into account? None. 366th Hare Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u230	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. The drafters issue district election committees and their members against the possibility of accusing them of their decision-making or inaction with the CLTC. It is an open provocation, incitement to lawlessness and impunity by the District Election Commissions and their members to the most responsible, most responsible and most important days of voting and the establishment of the summary of voting with which the District Electoral Commission does not establish a summary of voting in accordance with this bill, and it is prohibited to charge these violations with the CLTC before a court. You understand what this is about, you're taking away the possibility of accusing any violation. This is the quintession of this bill: forged lists, the commission works as technology, the courts fail, there is no accusation. Vote, respectable Ukrainians!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u231	The 366th amendment shall be put to the vote. [[14:25:15]] For -8 Correction not supported. 367th Amendment. There is no insistence on the people's deputy Knyazevitch. 368. He doesn't insist either. 369th Amendment. Is there a denial, one second, of 369? There's no objection. Please let me talk to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u232	Dear colleagues, there is an amendment to the amendment, as we say, in this amendment. So on page 316 this is part 8 of the word “twenty persons” to replace “sixteen persons” and the words “ten persons” to replace “all persons”. That's the first one. And on page 318, part 15 of the same article replace the word “on the fifteenth day” with the word “tenth day”.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u233	Fellow dignitaries, the reporter, immediately presented amendments to the amendments and decisions of the committee regarding article 85 of this Law, relate to calendar days and numbers. Please be careful. I'll bet you a vote on the committee's proposal. I'd like to make a statement. [[14:26:49]] For 276 The decision is supported. Please use the microphone of the deputy Knjazević regarding this article.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u234	I'm very short. Dear colleagues, I believe that there is a genuine desire for everyone to have the President of Ukraine more quickly. But why don't you explain to me why, in the first round, you give me 10 days, at least there could be 100 candidates, and on the second round there are 15 candidates, but there are 2 candidates. There's no point in that. So I'm just asking this question to be solved once and for all, no more than seven days this issue should be resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u235	Thank you. Amendment number 370. National deputy of Klukkowski. Don't insist. 371st Amendment. The National Hare Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u236	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. Here the legislator proposes to publish the results of the President's election since the CTC's decision was announced, not in newspapers. So we're preparing an anti-democracy procedure when the decision of the CLTC on the outcome of elections, however illegal they may be, can't be stopped. Because my previous amendment was just meant for a person to press charges in a court order, so that a person could sue the C.E.C.C. You got it all. And I'll remind you of the sad practice. In 2004, I just caught a fake because of the change in protocol in the 2000th Golden County constituency. And the matter reached the Supreme Court. And on that basis, both the tour and those voting results were cancelled. Today, you want the court to be “repeated” so that the citizen can not complain that the results of the elections will be announced by the CEC's decision, not by the publication of the results.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u237	Amendment No. 371 of the people’s representative of the Hare shall be subject to the vote. [[2:29:05]] For-16 Correction not supported. 372nd Amendment-- no insistence. 373th is Deputy Knazevitch does not insist. 374 doesn't insist. 375th-- is there a miscalculation? There's no objection. The 376s don't insist. 377th is not an insistent MP. 378 doesn't insist. 379th -- is there a miscalculation? None. The 380th amendment is no insistence. 381st Amendment, handsome MP. 382th is a handsome MP. 383 is a good-looking MP. The 384th is not an insistence. 385th, MP handsome. 386th, handsome. 387th, handsome. 388th, MP handsome. 389th, MP handsome. 390s, no insistence. 391, not necessarily. 392th, not necessarily. 393, are there any objections? There's no objection. 394, no insistence. 395th, no insistence. 396th, the MP doesn't insist. 397th, the MP doesn't insist. 398th, the MP doesn't insist. 399th, MP handsome. 400th Amendment, MP handsome. 401th Amendment, do you have a miscalculation? Everyone agrees. 402nd Amendment, do you mind? There's no objection. 403, are there any objections? None. 404th, is there a denial? There's no objection. 405th Amendment of the people's representative of the Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u238	Ladies and gentlemen, once again, this is what we're talking about. According to the existing standards offered by the authors, the court can only deal with the complaint for two days. Who knows the practice of 2006-2007, he saw that the higher administrative courts couldn't even consider these complaints in five days. The District Court alone in the area, please go into that same thing, get into that term. So there's actually a rule where a person's right to complain about the results of a vote or some other, well, just can't be realized. I mean, the court is actually rejuvenating, and you can't sue for the results. Do whatever you want, do whatever you want. So my amendment is just to rule out this rule. To make sure there are reasonable deadlines for hearing complaints, not those that would deprive people of the possibility of being accused of a crime.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u239	The 405th amendment of the people's representative of the Hare is a vote. [[14:32:42]] For the 15th. Correction not supported. 406th Amendment. Is there a miscalculation? None. 407th Amendment. The MP agrees with the committee's drafting? The committee's MP agrees. Here, on this page, there are also legal technical refinements. In part six of article 99, the words and figures “in paragraph six of article 99 ” should be replaced by the words and figures “in part five of article 99, ” since there has been a change in movement. I ask that this be taken into account. If we have any further clarifications, please contact the reporter for this article. No further details. Please take this into account when preparing for the signing of the law. 408th Amendment. The MP doesn't insist. The 409th amendment of the people's representative of the Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u240	Paragraph 6 must be excluded because it cynically denies the constitutional right of citizens to legal protection. It is not enough that citizens' rights are grossly infringed by the court's untimely hearing, yes, it turns out that this violation is the basis for even greater infringement – denial of court defence in general. Obviously, this unacceptable amendment is designed to provide raiding methods for blocking unwanted court decisions. This scheme is particularly effective in connection with the proposed bill, the shortening of the time limit for court hearings from five to two days, i.e. sufficient in any way, insolent enough, to sever the case by the court for two days, and the court still has no right to deal with the case and to apply any decision. I mean, you understand, honourable national deputies, that the court on your complaint has not ruled for two days, and you lose your right to appeal. This is the Constitution, this is the case law of the two authors of the Yulia Timoshenko and the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u241	The amendment of the people’s representative of the Hare shall be subject to a vote. [[14:35:05]] For-13. Correction of the people’s representative of the Hare is not supported. 410th Amendment, MP not insisting 411 doesn't insist. 412th, MP handsome. 413th Amendment, MP handsome. 414th, MP Philippeenko does not insist. 415th, MP handsome. 416th, MP handsome. Correction 417, MP handsome. 418th, MP handsome. 419, the MP's not insisting. The 420th, the deputy doesn't insist. 421st MP doesn't insist 422th, the deputy doesn't insist. 423, the MP doesn't insist. 424th, MP handsome. 425th Deputy Steshenko does not insist. 426, Deputy Klukkowski does not insist. 427 does not insist. The 428th MP doesn't insist. 429th MP handsome. The 430th MP handsome. 431st Deputy Schustik doesn't insist. 432th, the MP doesn't insist. 433th Amendment, no insistence. The 434th amendment of the people's representative of the Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u242	Ladies and gentlemen, here the authors propose a ban on the court's examination of the district election committee's protocols and the district election committee on the results of the vote. Such a ban is unacceptable. These amendments are in grave conflict with the provisions of article 124 of the Constitution. It is said that the jurisdiction of the courts extends to all the legal relations that arise in the State and can have only one explanation: to draw from the possibility of the prosecution and to stop the court any violations and indemnity from the CTC and the DTC itself at the most important stage of the electoral process, to calculate the votes in the constituencies and to establish the sums of the voting within the TWO. The set of rules on the formation of electoral commissions, and in fact the capture of commissions by several factions and the prohibition of judicial protection, creates a complete concept of a higher, unsuspecting species of raiding and full dictatorship in the electoral process by a narrow circle of politicians. That's the whole point of this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u243	Thank you, Ivan Alexanderovich. Your text is somewhat out of date, since factions no longer form a commission. But beyond that, the amendment of the people’s representative of the Hare is the vote. [[2:37:59]] For the 17th. Correction not supported. 435th Amendment, no insistence. 436th Amendment, no insistence. 437th Amendment, MP handsome. 438th Amendment, no insistence. 439th Amendment, no insistence. 440th Amendment, no insistence. 441st Amendment, MP handsome. 442nd Amendment of the People's Deputies of the Hare and the People's Deputy of the Divine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u244	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. There is no reason, no practice, no need for 2006-2007, no need for the practice of 2006-2007 in order to shorten the proceedings, the trial of the election disputes in the first instance from five to two days. Such an offer can have only one plausible motive. To facilitate in the complex of the proposed drafting of part six of article 99 of the Law on Elections of National Deputies of Ukraine, the raiding methods for blocking the work of courts and unwanted court decisions. Therefore, it is important to be honest that all these standards are designed to apply the raids not only to capture businesses but also to capture power. And this product, the law that we have in common between the Yulia Block of Timoshenko and the Party of Regions, is a product that is fertilized by the ideology of eroding only politically and not economically.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u245	Amendment of the People’s Deputy Hare No. 442 is subject to the vote. [[14:39:54]] For-16 Correction not supported. 443th Amendment. The MP doesn't insist. 444th Amendment. The MP doesn't insist. Is there a denial of 445? None. The 446th amendment of the people's representative of the Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u246	Again, we are talking about the possibilities of our legal system. And so I ask you to vote on my amendment. After all, people are good, so let's not go to court like this. an institution that can be manipulated as you wish. After all, there is the right of citizens to complain, there are mechanisms for judicial decisions. And all of my amendments are aimed at allowing you to use this right of accusation, and you take that right away from people. You're turning the court into a tool for manipulating certain political forces. So you're not just creating a right base for manipulation or distortion of will. But you're also side-by-side destroying our judicial system. That's where your revisions are headed.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u247	Amendment of the People’s Deputy Hare No. 446 is subject to the vote. [[14:41:38]] For-22. Correction not supported. 447th Amendment of the People's Chamber of the Hare. Amendment 447 shall apply to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[14:42:09]] For the 15th. Correction not supported. 448 revisions. The MP doesn't insist. 449th. Don't insist. 450th Amendment. Deputy Shustik. Don't insist. 451st Amendment. Kolesnikov, Lukas, Portnov. Is there a miscalculation? None. 452nd Amendment. The MP doesn't insist. 453. Don't insist. 454th. Don't insist. 455th Amendment. He's a good-looking MP. 456th Amendment. He's a good-looking MP. 457th Amendment. The National Hare Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u248	Dear National Deputies, John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. Here it is suggested that criminal responsibility be introduced for the members of the commission who are evading from work for important reasons, not from work, but from work, these are the great wise men. What this will lead to is that most of the members of the board that are running the two megablocks will force any member of the commission to break the law, because they will say, if you don't vote as we need you will sit for two years. Therefore, the question of the candidates for counterfeiting of the electorate has already been decided by our legislator not to look for the lords of Kiwalov or anyone else, it has already been prescribed by law that a person who is a member of the commission will answer, and if he does not want to fake it, they will simply put him in jail for two years. This is the law that we are adopting today, this is democracy, this is how we are going to Europe, this is going to the totalitarian regime, this is going to the communist system!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u249	Amendment No. 457 of the Hare People’s Deputies shall be subject to a vote. [[14:44:15]] For-31 Correction not supported. 458th Amendment. Is there a miscalculation? None. 459th Amendment. The MP doesn't insist. 460th Amendment. The MP doesn't insist. 461st Amendment. Deputy Carmazin does not insist. 462nd. That's the same thing. 463. I'm good. 464th Amendment. The MP doesn't insist. 465th Amendment. The MP doesn't insist. 466th Amendment. There's no insistence on the MP. 467th Amendment. The MP doesn't insist. 468th. People's deputy Knjazević. Please, the microphone of Deputy Knjazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u250	It's called talking. It's the village that wept. On October 1, 2007, the Act on the State Register of Voters became effective. We said that in the next election of deputies we would still give a little bit of time, let them prepare for another two years, and we'll write again that there's still not enough time and it might happen that it won't be ready. So if there's a record like that, it's definitely never going to be ready. So I think this rule should be deleted, there should be an imperative norm, the register should work. We're going to cut the campaign line. It's actually going to work when the voter lists are drawn up -- it's going to be around the end of November. Dear colleagues, if we don't do this, the philosophy of the law is subordinated just because the State Register is going to work. We're entering additional lists. We're allowed to include it in the day, and so on, if we don't do it, the register will not be, but it'll be full of vachanals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u251	Dear Viacheslav Petrovich, do you insist on voting? The question here is that the moment should provide an exact list of voters so that we don't have any problems not using the lists that were six years ago. Today, the State Register of Voters does not work, and we cannot guarantee the accuracy of this today. Please, if you insist on the nation's amendments, I can put it to a vote. Please, the microphone of Deputy Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u252	Alexander Volodymyrovich, please accept that this is absolutely not an argument. On our first reading, we passed a normal law. For the second reading, there is still time for this issue to be corrected, and I agree that 2007 should be based on it, not in 2006. But if you write that rule, we won't have it in the next parliamentary election. I assure you this will be the basis for this process to be forever. And never will the law that you say in the second reading be passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u253	Yes, I thank you, I'm sure that the question of creating this register is going to be the study of many organs, but now I'm putting it to a vote. Don't insist. Thank you. The 469th amendment of the Klukkowski MP. He doesn't insist. In this way we have considered all the amendments made to this law, which have been made by the legislators. Dear colleagues, in addition to voting on the amendments, we have clarified the texts of the individual articles. I very much ask that, in preparing for the signing of this law, a professional committee carefully take into account those changes that are supported by the deputies, and that the Chief Legal Authority carry out legal and technical expertise and that we have all the terminology that is being used and that the necessary links on the dates are precisely aligned. I am voting on the second reading of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts concerning the election of the President of Ukraine. [[second reading]] Please be sure. [[14:48:26]] For 311 The bill in the second reading was approved. Dear colleagues, are there any problems that have been voted on in the second reading today that might have balanced this bill? There's no such thing. I am voting on the adoption as a whole as bill 4741 amending certain legislative acts concerning the election of the President of Ukraine. I'd like to make a statement. [[14:49:12]] For 316 The law has been passed in general. Replica is now Volodymyr Alexanderovich Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u254	First of all, I welcome the adoption of this law by us. And I'm very sorry that my distinguished colleague and friend Ivan Aleksandrovitch didn't understand me that I fully supported all of his progressive absolute corrections, all of them. Among the seven votes that took his amendments is my voice. I'm just really sorry that the ordinary, simple people sitting here in the hall didn't understand everything and didn't support it. And the last thing I wanted to say. The beautiful woman from our Olga Bondar faction proposes that the day of Olga, who is today, be renamed the day of the Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u255	A reply from the people's representative of the Hare, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u256	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. You heard there was a national MP speaking to me today, what's he talking about? This tells us that he does not know what he is making; he has not read this law. He doesn't know what's going on. This entire equilibrist that he voted to support the Hare's proposals, you can tell anyone. But I want you to know that the bill that we just adopted was created within the same ideology that was being implemented and in the drafting of the Constitution that was being proposed to us by the BUTT and the Party of Regions. And this bill will allow big fake voter lists, turn commissions into counterfeiting tools. This bill deprives people of the charge of wrongdoing, of the results of the electorate. This bill converts members of election committees into slaves. Because you can plant them for two years because they won't do yours, your wishes to be, to live by the Constitution. Therefore, Lord, who has spoken before me, neither laugh nor rejoice. Do not take part in the break of the democratic system.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u257	On the basis of the vote, the People’s Deputy Catherinechuk
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u258	Mikola Catherinechuk, European Party of Ukraine You know, only wise people are likely to draw conclusions from the past. So I realized that the content of those amendments and the bill that was adopted today is far from the winning process, the electoral process. Therefore, those who have agreed and made such a bill under these arrangements need to understand, and what will happen if these arrangements fail? What will happen then? So I'd like the president to make a commitment to this bill. Because it has nothing to do with the democratic electoral process.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u259	Dear colleagues! We have completed our consideration of the matter. Now let's move on to the next bill. Registration number 4630.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u260	It's a motive!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u261	For reasons of what? What's that? Question completed. We are now considering a draft law amending some of Ukraine's legislation on the features of bank financial recovery measures. [[resecond reading]] [[commission from 16.07.2009]] Now, one minute, Comrade Arjewitin. The rapporteur is the Secretary of the Committee on Finance and Banking, Yuri Volodymyrovich Poluniev. Please, Arjewitin, from the question-solving procedure. And then Yuri Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u262	Dear Head! Deputies! I wanted to let you know that today's chart we've been given is not the end. As a national MP in accordance with article 116, as well as the National MP of Samofal, I made proposals for a second read, but the committee did not consider them and did not include them in the table. And there are also very serious observations, the substantial observations made by the General Legal Authority and the Scientific and Experimental Authority, which state that there are many violations of the Constitution in the bill, so I insist in accordance with articles 121 and 123 of the Rules and Articles 148 of this Act today as a whole as an act of the Supreme Council not to adopt. I'm putting the right statement on the table.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u263	Thank you. Dear colleagues! The point is that the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Banking and Banking dealt with the bill, the committee considered 16.07, the table was distributed at the right time, but if it comes to other additions that arose at the last moment, we can vote as an amendment to the amendment. In this case today we're looking at this table that was given to us. There is a point, however, that is essential, by the Chief Legal Authority. If we are not invited to take these amendments into account, we will then, in view of and understanding what are the observations of the Chief Legal Authority, the Supreme Council will assume the responsibility of enacting this law. And I don't have the right to take it off the table, except that we were discussing a list of issues before today, and there were no objections when I put it to the vote. Please, Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u264	Thank you. Vladimir Mikhailovich! Martinyuk, the Communist faction. The point of the speech of a colleague of Arjevetina is something else. He points once again to violations of the rules of the Rules when preparing drafts for the first, second, or second, and so on. My colleague Argewittin drew our attention to the fact that the committee, without waiting and observing the terms, immediately after we voted to send this bill to read again, on the same date that we sent it to read again, sends us the same table of first reading, sorry for that word, and colleague Arzewitin and others could not take advantage of their right to re-read their proposals. [[other]] And so if we now go along the way of accepting this as a law, there will be 48 articles of the Rules, and you, Volodymyr Mihajlovich, will not have the right to sign it until it is considered by the committee of profile.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u265	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that at the last extraordinary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we voted in the negotiation process, one minute, to refer to the second reading of the two bills: this bill, which we are discussing, as well as the bill on subsistence minimum and minimum wage. And I must say, dear colleagues, that the table was not prepared for the second issue of this bill. I won't touch anyone else. We solved the problem there. After that, a committee meeting took place, and the committee prepared and presented the table. True, differences arose at first because a document had been signed by the committee secretary and then a document had been signed by the committee’s first deputy. And at the Conciliation Board meeting, I went to the faction leaders and to all of us to have order: if anyone doesn't like political reasons to consider a question, but the committee's head should carry out the commission of the committee. If the committee's made a decision, we're doing it. On this issue, the committee has sent, including me, a decision by the committee on how many people have voted, and as a result, we have every reason to consider this bill. At the same time, he is warned by the Supreme Council’s apparatus, namely, the Chief Legal Authority. Let's now, in the process of consideration, let's make a decision on this. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u266	Lukyanov is not the first but simply the deputy. So Lukyanov signed. Dear colleagues, I want to say again, let's make a deal like this, bring order to the committee. If you can't work, tell me, let's set up a committee. You have questions all the time. You can solve your problems. Let us demonstrate such a principle in all the matters that make people happy, not in one person. Please report this question. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm going to the Rules. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u267	Dear Head, honourable national deputies, I am surprised by the position of my colleagues, particularly Stanislaw Mikhailovich, who did not even appear at the committee meeting, where an important issue such as this bill was considered. And there was a working group that worked out all the comments, all the MPs. That's why. When a bill is being considered, which the entire banking system is awaiting today, it says that let's take this law off the table, it just sounds weird. I'm not inclined to dramatize the banking sector, but the data shows that negative phenomena are gaining power there. In particular, an increase in the share of problematic assets in the portfolios of financial institutions, a decrease in the capital ratio of banks, a lack of access by banks to international capital markets, persistent customer problems, and people with their own funds. That's what gives our political power, our faction, the reason to believe that this bill, which is aimed at restructuring credits, to sanction the banking system, is a valid reason to call and consider this session under this very law. From behind the banking system, the exit of the Ukrainian economy from the crisis will be delayed. Now for Bill 4630. This bill is a comprehensive bill that is called upon to address various issues related to the financial recovery of the banking system. In particular, the bill deals with groups of issues related to the reorganization of banks, the transfer of their assets, liabilities, and the specificity of the temporary moratorium on the performance of obligations to creditors, the role of the State, the National Bank of Ukraine regarding the recovery of banks. The adoption of this law is extremely important. For a number of reasons. And immediate acceptance. First of all, it's a day-long focus on the recovery of the banking system. And this recovery means not only that much so-called recapitalisation of individual banks with the participation of the state, but how much the solution to the problem of state-owned loans will solve. decrease in regulatory capital. The latest trends and data show how I've been saying that these processes are increasing. In the process of rereading the bill, a number of discussion issues arose. To find agreed decisions, a series of expert meetings and working groups were held with the participation of all factions, representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the National Bank of Ukraine. A total of 170 amendments to this bill were considered. Part of the amendments were rejected. Because they mostly referred to the same topic, not the distribution of a temporary moratorium imposed by the NBA in a commercial bank on the contributions of natural persons.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u268	Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u269	That under the insolvency of a financial institution it is extremely difficult to implement. Also, some of the rejected proposals included restrictions on the access of foreign investors to the Ukrainian banking system and, as such, were contrary to Ukraine’s commitments to the world trade organization. The bill proposed for your consideration foresees how the system approach to simplify the financial recovery of banks as much as possible. And also, the deadlines for these measures. And an important thesis: “As long as the adoption or non-admission of individual rights in the face of a systemic decision that has been taken by the Committee on Finance and Banking together with the government, experts, the National Bank of Ukraine can destroy the agreed drafting of this bill, I ask for support. The unanimous decision of the committee. It recommends the adoption of Bill 4630 in the proposed editorial table in second reading and in general as a law. Except for two moments, two lines. I read them out of my voice. Amendment 68 on page 18 in the table should be taken into account in the following wording: “Article 58 should be supplemented by new parts of such content, the owners of the substantial part are obliged to take timely measures to prevent the insolvency of the bank”. [[in quotes]] Owners of a substantial share, bank managers, in addition to “the managers of the bank’s separate structural units for fictitious bankruptcy, bankruptcy, or concealment of the bank’s persistent financial incapacity, are responsible under Ukrainian law. [[in quotes]] That's the first one. The second is a very important correction. Edit 108 page 41 of the table. Please take this into account. To supplement the law with article 86 prima in such an order. Article 86 Direct Sanitation Bank. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, with the submission of the National Bank of Ukraine, agreed with the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Finance and Banking, has the right to create a recovery bank, which is not a member of the fund to guarantee the contributions of individuals. The main task of the rehabilitation bank is to protect the interests of investors, creditors of banks. The bank has acquired the status of an ambulance since it was issued by the National Bank of Ukraine with the licenses of a health bank and has the right to carry out only the transactions provided for by that licence. Orders for the issuance of licences from the Sanitation Bank, regulation of activities and supervision of the Sanitation Bank are carried out in accordance with the prescribed legal acts of the National Bank of Ukraine, agreed with the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Finance and Banking. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to consider this bill as a whole, as presented in the table, and not to go to an article vote, because it has been fully worked as a comprehensive system document and is supported by everyone. And we'll take it, I think, if the law is put to the vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u270	Dear colleagues, let's go, pay attention, let's go to the repairs. Tell me what the point is. Now, one minute, a clarification, Alexander Lavrinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u271	Dear colleagues, when the reporter read the amendments to the new edition, he mistakenly said that there was “bankruptcy” in the paws, except for managers, not in quotes, but in parentheses.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u272	In parentheses. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. In parentheses.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u273	Because it makes sense.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u274	In parentheses, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u275	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the amendments. Amendment number one. Yuri Carmazin. Is he insisting? No, it's not. What do you think of him? Well, if you insist on the amendment, I'll put it to the vote. Well, please, Arjevitin, once, and then we'll put it to the vote. Honorable colleagues, a national MP, may demand to put to the vote amendments that have been considered, supported or not supported. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u276	Ladies and gentlemen, I will not comment, because I will insist that my amendments be considered on the committee, including all legal and scientific amendments. As for the first amendment, I just want to make you a comment. That now all the customers without their consent of any banking institution of another banking institution or anyone else will be transferring all the liabilities without customer consent. And these are the tens of them. You want to vote for that, please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u277	I'm voting on Amendment No. 1 of Yuri Carmazin. [[15:07:23]] Z-11. Correction not supported. Let's move on. Another repair. Nobody insists? The third and the fourth are essentially accounted for. Do you insist on voting on it? Fifth. Counted. Six. Counted. Seven. Arjewitin, accounted for. The eighth of Carmazin is rejected. The seventh Arjewitin and the Poluniev accounted for.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u278	I want to tell you, my dear colleague, the seventh amendment is yours. I want to tell you that there are no amendments in the first reading. Once again, there are no amendments in the first reading. Please don't beat the Supreme Council with the rhythm of the worker. Once again, the Second Supreme Council of Ukraine has sent this bill without consideration. More specifically, she did not discuss the amendment, but she simply voted for the second reading and all. I want to say it again. The committee, please take a look. I want to go back to the committee. Eight of Carmazin. Are you insisting? No, it's not. The ninth. Counted. Ten. No, it's not. Eleven. No, it's not. Twelve. No, it's not. Thirteen. Counted. Fourteen and fifteen. Don't insist. Sixteen. Seventeen. Eighteen. 19th, 20th, 21st, 22nd. 23rd. Are you insisting on her? Poluniev, do you insist? 24th.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u279	No, I don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u280	25th, 26th, 27th, 28th, 29th, 30th, 31st, 32nd, 33rd, 34th, 35th, 36th. Don't you insist? No, no, no, no. 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46. All amendments are rejected. Are they insisting on her? 47th. It's a readjustment. 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56, 57, 58, 59, 60, 61, 62nd. Declined. Do the authors insist on them? No, it's not. 63 counts. Doesn't anyone insist on voting? 64's rejected. Don't you insist? It's the 65th. No warning? 66th, 67th. Declined. Are they insisting? No, it's not. 68th Arjun. Counted. 69th, 70th rejected. Is there an insistence? None. 71st accounted for. 72nd. What is the correction? 71st, microphone, please, John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u281	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. I'm against having the National Bank appoint a temporary administration for a term of up to one year. We've already seen that in six months, the temporary administration is simply stripping off creditors. Give me 50 percent of the bribes, then we'll pay you back. And now, if a year goes by, it's not gonna be a sanation, it's just going to be the destruction of a bank. That's the first one. The other one. There is nothing in this amendment that is written for the National Bank to be held accountable for the temporary administrator. It's like there's a person who's responsible for everything, and the National Bank washes hands. And today we see that those who have suffered in troubled banks today will continue to suffer. You want to make sure, go to National Credit and see. Today the bank is sold, the creditors come in, and they say, 30 percent per table, or six months from now, we'll give you something else. So the responsibility of the National Bank needs to be recorded, not more than six months. Not even six months, maybe a month. Or three days of temporary administration should work.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u282	Would you please take the seat of the committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u283	Well, the position of the committee is that the National Bank of Ukraine today cannot predict all the cases involving the resolution of banks. And he asks to be allowed to introduce a temporary administration within one year. But as a moratorium, as one, but as the moratorium provided for in this bill is imposed for a term of up to three months, we predict that for three months, the temporary administrator should recover the bank or, at least, develop recovery measures for the bank. And then pass it on to either the Cabinet of Ministers, or. The bank. So the National Bank is given some flexibility. We do not limit it, but in particularly difficult cases it may introduce a temporary administration up to one year. As far as responsibilities are concerned, they are clearly prescribed. The National Bank controls the temporary administrator, establishes responsibilities, corresponds the temporary administrator to the National Bank, has to implement a recovery plan for the bank. And everything will be controlled. Including Mr. John, including through the Committee on Finance and Banking.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u284	Thank you. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Amendment 71 counted. At the same time, John the Rabbit makes a warning about this amendment. So I will now put to the vote a proposal to support this amendment. If she's supported, she'll stay. If not, it will be removed. So I'm putting it to a vote, please, to support the amendment. What, what? Turn on John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u285	Vladimir Mikhailovich, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I am speaking against the last part of this amendment, where it is a temporary administrator, one year. So if you put it to a vote, this is the exact part that they're going to confirm, because one year today is just the collapse of the bank. Either take it out in three days or put it out. One year is done to force the creditor to give part of the money to the borrower, and actually to the one who does it. This can be told by any man who holds money in the current account in troubled banks, it can be told by any person who.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u286	Thank you. It's over again.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u287	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u288	Thank you. Turn off the microphone. So our colleague insists that the sentence: “The National Bank of Ukraine appoints a temporary administration for a term of up to one year”, is deleted, right? Well, now, Minister of Finance, please. A doer of duty. ___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! In fact, this rule limits the term of a temporary administration. If we delete this standard, the temporary administration can take place indefinitely — five years, 10 years. The limit is that it can’t be more than a year. It can be completed in a month, in three months, but in any case, the National Bank is denied the right to spend more than one year. This rule cannot be deleted. This is a constraint on the National Bank by the term.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u289	Thank you. Dear colleagues, at the same time, John Alexanderovich, respected colleagues, along with being such. Ivan Alexanderovich! Since there is such a proposal, I will now put to the vote support for the sentence in Amendment 71: “The National Bank of Ukraine appoints a temporary administration for a term of up to one year.” Please, the amendment shall be voted on. [[15:16:15.]] For 263 The amendment is supported in this part. Let's move on. Amendment 72 counted. Is there no objection? Amendment 73, 74, 75 Yuri Karmazin. Do you mind? No, it's not. Correction of Poluniev, 76, counted. No objections? Carmazin’s amendments: 77, 78, 79, 80, 81, 82, 83, 84, 85, 86, which are not considered by anyone? No, it's not. Amendment 87 is counted. No objections? Amendment 88 of Argentina is included. No one's insisting on her? Amendments 89, 90, 91, 92, 93, 94 They don't insist on her, they're rejected? No, it's not. Amendment 95 of Arjevitina and Poluniev count. Don't they insist on her?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u290	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u291	No, it's not. Amendment 96 — Arjevitin, Poluniev counted. Don't they insist on her? 97 – partially included Azarova. Don't you insist? No, it's not. Arjewitin, Poluniev, 98 revisions are partially taken into account. Is there no objection? Amendment 99 Sergey Clovis. Are they insisting on her? It's counted. Carmine correction: 100, 101, 102, 103, 104, 105, 106 are rejected. Are they insisting on her? No, it's not. Amendment 107 - Arjevitin, Poluniev counted. 108 – Arjevitin, Poluniev, counted. Do they insist on these amendments? No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u292	Volodymyr Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u293	Just a minute. Poluniev's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u294	I ask Amendment 108 to vote in an editorial that I have heard. This is article 86 on sanitization.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u295	Give me this amendment, I'll read it. Amendment 108, page 41 of the table, to be taken into account in such an editorial, to supplement article 86 in this edition, article 86 — Sanitation Bank: “The Cabinet of the Ministers of Ukraine has the right to establish a sanatorium bank that is not a member of the fund to guarantee the contributions of individuals. The main task of the rehabilitation bank is to protect the interests of bank creditors. The bank has acquired the status of an ambulance since it was issued by the National Bank of Ukraine and has the right to carry out only the operations provided for by this license. Orders for the issuance of a sanctioning bank, regulation and supervision of a recovery bank are carried out in accordance with the legal and regulatory acts of the National Bank of Ukraine, agreed with the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Finance and Banking. Then this amendment should be put to the vote. Dear colleagues! May I have your attention, please? I'm putting to the vote Amendment 108 of the paper that I just put it in. [[15:20:01]] For 276 Decision taken. Let's move on. Amendment 109 - Karakai - Lukyanov is rejected. Are you insisting on her? Are they insisting on her? No, it's not. Amendment 110, 111, 112, 113, 114, 115, 116, 117, 118, 119, 120, 121, 122, 123 of the People's Deputy of Carmazin. Does anyone insist on her? No, it's not. Amendment 124 of the Arzheviten Poluniev is counted. Amendments 125, 126, 127, 128, 129, 130, 131, 132, 133, 134, 135, 136, 137, 138. 139th, 140th, 141st Yuri Carmazin. Who insists on them? Correction of 142nd Arzhevtin and Poluniev. Counted. Is there a denial? None. The 143rd of Poluniev. Counted. Is there a denial? None. 144th, 145th, 146th, 147th, 147th, 148th, 149th, 150th, 151st, 152nd, 153rd, 154th, 155th Yuri Carmazin. These amendments have been rejected. Is there no objection? Dear colleagues, let's go through the procedure. The 156th, the Arzheviteen and the Polunieev are included. Is there no objection? The 157th, 158th, 159th, 160th, 161st, 162nd Yuri Carmazin doesn't count. Declined. Is there a denial? None. 163th Amendment, Yuri Poluniev. Counted. Is there a denial? None. The 164th Yuri Carmazin amendment was rejected. Is there no objection? None. The 165th amendment, Poluniev counted. Is there no objection? 166th Amendment of Carmazin, 167th Amendment of Carmazin denied. Is there no objection? Amendment 168 Yuria Poluniev has been taken into account. Is there no objection? None. Amendment 169. Authors: Poluniev, Arjewityn, Kluev. Counted. Is there no objection? Amendment 170. Karakai, Lukyanov, is counted. Is there no objection? Amendment 171, Poluniev, accounted for. Is there a denial? None. 172nd, Karachi and Klovev. Counted. Is there a denial? Amendment 174 Yuri Poluniev is included. No one insists on voting? No, it's not. Amendment 175 of Arjevitina and Poluniev. Who insists on voting? None. Now we, dear fellows, have yet to vote on the 68th amendment, which has been read so far. Amendment 68, page 18, please open. Article 58 complements the following with new parts: “ The owners of a substantial share are obliged to take timely measures to prevent insolvency. [[Brackets]] [[Bank bankruptcy]] Owners of the bank manager's substantial involvement. [[parenthesis]] [[other than the managers of the separate structural units of the bank]] [[closing parentheses]] For fictitious bankruptcy, bankruptcy, or concealment of the bank’s persistent financial inability, the bank is responsible under Ukrainian law. I put to the vote this amendment, please vote. [[15:24:30.]] For 282 Correction accepted. So, respectable colleagues, all the adjustments. For the reasons of the vote, Adam Martinyuk, please. Now we're going to vote in the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u296	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues! Dear voters! Unfortunately, once again instead of solving the problem, those who own the banks now want to adopt a law that will totally make the situation worse. Instead of, for example, supporting the proposal to lend under 3 or 5 percent, we are now adopting a law that will make banks unknowable. Regrettably, none of the comments on the 10 pages of the General Legal Authority are taken into account. And this law will not work at all. But at the end of the day, accept, vote, and I hope that the word of the great economist of the quote that I'm about to quote will come true. “The owners of the capital will encourage the working class to buy more and more expensive goods, houses and technicians – thus encouraging them to take more and more expensive loans until the loans are paid off. Unpaid loans lead to bankruptcy of banks that will.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u297	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u298	Unpaid loans lead to bankruptcy of banks that will be nationalized by the state, which will ultimately lead to communism. I welcome you, this is Carl Marx, Capital, Volume One.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u299	John the Rabbit, please, then Arjewitin, and we will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u300	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. I don't want to be an evil foreman, but the adoption of this law will very quickly convince us that those people who were creditors of troubled banks, the people who had deposits for them, are coming into very dark days. Think about it, it gives you a year to be a temporary administrator, and for the resolution of the bank, you vote, you vote, you give five years. What you can do is you can do five years with this bank, because when you see international practice, as soon as the bank is shaken or it's eliminated or it's destroyed. For a very short term. So there are only one mechanisms here to rob these creditors once again, who have deposited the money, the customers of the bank. You'll remember my words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u301	People's MP Arjewitin, microphone. Then Samofal Gennadi.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u302	Stanislav Argevitin, group “For Ukraine”. Ladies and gentlemen, we really need such a bill, but not in such an editorial, believe me, not in such an editorial. So once again, I'm stressing for the transcript that those suggestions that were just being considered are my suggestions that were before the first time we were listening in the second reading. Here are my suggestions for re-second reading, which none of them have been considered by the committee and are not included in the table. That's why I wrote a statement and made a statement. So I ask and demand that we send this bill to the third reading and not accept today as. Because the procedure of MPs who have the full right to make their remarks to this bill has been violated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u303	Thank you. Gennady Samofal.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u304	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Indeed, the law is very important, very important, we have worked on it for a long time, today has been passed, considered, but this law has had to be prepared more seriously. Why? I have filed as many motions as Ivan Rabbit for the President's Election Act, in the sense of amendments, none of them have been considered. But I know it's vacation time to get some rest. The Committee used to be. And there are things that are simply unacceptable, as they say today, in a democratic state. But for example. As is the case today, we will decide that the bank, without the consent of the client, should issue information. Is that normal or not? Therefore, I support my colleague, Arzhevitina, that this law will be passed before it is finished and finally adopted as it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u305	Dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts. Now I'm going to put it to a vote. May I have your attention, please? Proposal for a second reading of the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the features of financial recovery measures for adoption in a second reading. [[Registration number 4630]] Please vote. [[15:29:32]] For 303 Decision taken. Now, respected colleagues who are notable to the procedure and order of consideration in the second reading and accepted in the second reading. No, please tell me, after the third reading we need to determine if we have unagreed articles, if a number of amendments have not been voted on and there has been a variation, we can transfer them to the third reading. I want to say it again. To the committee, please. We're in the session room, sorry. The Microphone of the People's Deputy, Arjevetin. Much of your amendments are included.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u306	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress again. Those amendments that you voted for, and they thank you for, were my amendments that I made when we first heard that we didn't listen. Remember, 16 numbers. That's why my amendments were before that reading. To this day's reading, I have prepared in an orderly manner just like the deputy of Samofalova, my suggestions, and put it in a letter and sent it to the committee. The committee under the procedure was obliged to consider and include all my proposals in today’s table and then vote in a 10-day period. It's a violation of parliamentary law. So I urge this bill to send for a third reading, and the committee to consider my proposals and other deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u307	Thank you. Ivan Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u308	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I am addressing you personally, you said right at the very beginning of this bill. The second reading, we voted it out of consideration a week ago, so there were amendments to the second reading of MPs that were counted. A colleague who had just spoken to me, the first deputy chairman of the committee, you made the right proposal to him, you had to take part in the committee meeting as the first deputy and hold this committee meeting. So the MP today has the right to ask the President to take appropriate action. That's the first one. And the second right, when the law is signed, to change it and we vote in this room. Now we have to vote in general. This law is essential for the country, and everyone knows it very well. Please vote in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u309	The replica. One minute, please. Member of the Arjevethin. Well, his last name was, well.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u310	Ladies and gentlemen, today I'm told I wasn't on the committee, so I'm going to tell you the truth. The documents that you received and were written by the 16th number and the decision of the 16th number committee, so the 16th number of the committee meeting was gone, it was the 17th number, but not the 16th, as you were given here. And I wasn't invited, and I went to the task force on my own initiative. That's why I don't know what documents they gave you. I wrote you a letter that we didn't have a committee meeting number of 16 or 16, so I didn't ask. And what was 17 numbers, I really don't know. But you have papers for the 16th. There was no committee meeting on the 16th.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u311	Lukyanov’s national deputy And all the respectable colleagues, well, that'll go into discussion. Well, please, Kirilenko. Well, you've done it before.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u312	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I want to say that there was a committee meeting on the committee head's written assignment, where there was a quorum.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u313	I'm asking you to calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u314	Don't interrupt, let me finish, I'll answer all your questions. I want to say that all the amendments that have been registered to the committee at this point have been considered and there has been a unanimous decision by the members of the committee who have been present at this meeting to support the editorial work that we are now taking. Unfortunately, Mr. Arjevitin, you were gone, unfortunately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u315	Thank you. Viacheslav Kirilenko. I'm asking you to calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u316	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “For Ukraine” MP. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! You personally did not claim once, especially in earlier times that MPs should not be buttoned up. Now, the MP did not knock, Stanislaw Arzewityn, a professional, professional banker, introduced nine amendments to a bill that was just being discussed. All of these manipulations were rejected because they obviously don't have certain lobbyist groups that now own the majority of the MPs and want to extend the bill. So, in the spirit of free and independent parliamentaryism, I urge you, as Head of the Supreme Council, to listen to the amendments of Stanislav Arzvetin, in the past of a multi-year banker whose bank worked irreprehensibly and never had any observations. Let's take that question to the third reading. And I'd like to ask my colleagues from BUTU not to scream, because the hat is burning on a thief, but to listen to the attention of professionals, not the various screamers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u317	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, now let's calm down, let's put away our emotions. There's a rule. And I, my dear colleagues, try to keep it. This is chapter 20, the second reading of the bill. It's a full-blown rule. If there is a distaste for the committee, it is obvious that the first deputy, the deputy, and above all, the committee head and the committee secretary should work and go to the committee. And taking our differences to the meetings of the Supreme Council is equivalent to signing up for our own powerlessness. But I also consulted with the Legal Office on compliance with the Rules of Procedure, and the Rules were fully enforced. Not taking the proposal into account is not the issue of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. At the same time, I ask the Regulatory Committee to study the matter. When a proposal was made when the committee considered why the first deputy head of the committee for its amendments was not given attention and the reasoned answer was not given. And now, in order to remain pure, I'm going to put a proposal to the vote: who is it that the Supreme Council of Ukraine will now consider the draft Law in the third reading, that is, adopt it in its final edition? Yes, I am voting on this motion so that there will be no charges and then letters referring to articles of the Rules. Who is it that the Supreme Council of Ukraine should now be determined as to the adoption in the final edition, namely, in the third reading, of the draft Law 4630? Please vote. [[15:36:42]] For 321 Decision taken. Now, if you'll excuse me. I'm voting for adoption in the third reading and in general as a bill of the bill, and I would ask you to take into account technical, purely technical editing -- comas, dots and so on. [[Registration number 4630]] I'll bet you that vote, please. [[15:37:21]] For 322 The law is passed. Yes, dear fellows, let's keep working. Dear colleagues, the draft Law 5009 on amending some of Ukraine’s laws on minimizing the impact of the financial crisis on the development of the domestic industry is under review. The reporter is the Royal Natala Yuriovna. Come on, fellow Members, this is a request: we have two laws left, we have already accepted them by more than a constitutional majority. A brief presentation of the substance of the information, and let us put acceptance to the vote as a basis and as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u318	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! The Committee has considered Bill No. 5009 amending certain Ukrainian laws to minimize the impact of the financial crisis on the development of the domestic industry, and we ask that the bill be transposed from the agenda today. Thank you very much for your attention. [[B in m in s a l in]] Take it off the table.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u319	Dear colleagues! Let's do it this way. I'll put it to a vote on the postponement of this bill. You make up your mind, please. What were you fighting for? I am voting on the postponement of the draft law amending some of Ukraine's laws to minimize the impact of the financial crisis on the development of the domestic industry. Registration number 5009. I'd like to make a statement. [[15:39:17]] For 255 Decision taken. The draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the powers of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, the features of the conduct of constitutional appeals and the non-abuse of the right to constitutional submission is being announced for consideration. Dear colleagues! I'll take you up on the offer, we'll advise you to consider it as a reduced procedure. Is there no objection? I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. [[15:40:04]] For 261 Decision taken. The reporter is Lavrinovich Alexander Volodymyrovich. Correspondent is the head of the Committee on Legal Policy’s subcommittee, Filipenko Volodymyr Pilipovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u320	Dear colleagues! For the first time in the history of Ukrainian Parliamentarianism, we will be considering a draft law that was already the law of Ukraine, which was approved in this room in full conformity with the parliamentary procedure, and which is declared by the Constitutional Court not constitutional in view of the fact that the date set in the publication of this law from the standpoint of the Constitutional Court did not correspond to the date to be set. For the first time, we are faced with the fact that the Constitutional Court of Ukraine worked under the rules of the General Court of Justice. He acted as a court of facts investigating the actions of officials of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in publishing this law, which is far beyond the jurisdiction, of course, of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, which is solely a court of law, which has to work only with legal norms, not with the actions of officials and not with legal facts. But since this law regulates very important activities in the matters of the Constitutional Court itself, there is a clear motive for such an interesting attitude toward this law of Ukraine. The law that regulated the three parts: the work of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine when determining the application of amendments to the Constitution of Ukraine, how this is to be done. And so that they have works on a free topic on what is defined as appropriate, what is the practice in which it is applied, and what is the clear answer to the question of 157, 158 articles of the Constitution, which limit the possibility of amending the basic law. This is also true for us to fill a vacuum of legal procedures that the Ukrainian Parliament is required to do in order to appeal to the Constitutional Court to comply with the procedure for the removal of the Head of State from power in the order of impeachment. This is also true of the part that he foresees.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u321	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u322	regulation of the court's activities when considering the submissions made by the President of Ukraine. When he stops the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. It states that with regard to decisions that have already been considered, they cannot be stopped again, and it also sets clear calendar dates when it is possible to appeal against such decisions. So this law, it passed this hall several times, found full support in this room. And I would like us to endorse it once again, and thus allow us to apply the standards that are needed in Ukraine. And to point out that in Ukraine the judiciary has to establish justice and must work within the limits that are set for it and do not assume the authority of other parts of the judiciary or other branches of government in general. I ask you to support this bill in the first reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u323	Dear colleagues, Filipenko Volodymyr Philipovich of the Committee. We agreed on a shorter procedure with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u324	Thank you. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! For the consideration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, it is proposed to amend certain laws of Ukraine concerning the powers of the Constitutional Court, the features of the implementation of constitutional appeals and the non-abuse of the right to constitutional submission from 10 July 2009, introduced by the Ukrainian National Deputies Lavrinovich and Portnov. In fact, the need for a re-examination of this bill is due to the adoption by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of a decision of 7 July 2009, which was declared unconstitutional by the Ukrainian law of 19 March of this year, which is similar to that of the bill submitted today for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The recognition by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of essentially formal reasons for the Act of 19 March 2009 in a manner contrary to the basic law has led to the creation of a dangerous precedent regarding the possibility of repealing any law, and has left unresolved a considerable range of social relations relating to the activities of the Constitutional Court. Taking into account the fact that a similar bill has already been considered by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, all the procedures provided for by the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure in accordance with the Rules and taking into account the proposals made by the Ukrainian people's deputies were adopted as a law on 19 March, I ask the Supreme Council to adopt Bill No. 4817 as a basis and as a whole. This is a committee decision, please support such an offer. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u325	Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this law? If there is, please sign in. Please, let's go through the procedure. A recording of the performance is being made. Please put the names of the people's deputies on the board. Vladimir Filipenko. Ah, he's handing Andrew Portnow a microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u326	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Andrey Portnow, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. That's what I'd like to pay attention to. First. I would like to point out that in fact the Constitutional Court has repealed the law of itself. That is, this law applied to the activities of the Constitutional Court itself. This is the first position. Second position. The Constitutional Court has been considering the issue for years, and we can't get from the Constitutional Court sometimes for years any clear decisions. But the Constitutional Court law of itself has, literally, considered in a few months. I mean, very fast. Third position. The Constitutional Court did not at all consider the bill adopted by Parliament with the power of the Presidential veto. And he canceled it because it's like the Supreme Council's Head didn't assign the right number to the bill. It's an unprecedented event at all. And the fourth last. In fact, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine began to regulate its activities. That is, reproduce your own vision by regulating the legislative, legislative work by your own decisions. This is what we consider an unprecedented case to be dangerous to society. In connection with this Supreme Council of Ukraine, a bill is proposed in the same drafting, to adopt it in the first reading and in general, to refer it to the Constitutional Court, and also, we have a proposal to study in detail and carefully the motives from which the Constitutional Court has, in fact, adopted that decision. And it may be possible to further regulate his activities. Perhaps even this is being discussed among the largest parliamentary factions that have made some changes to the Constitution of Ukraine in the regulation of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u327	Don't scare us. Tell us what else we've agreed not to worry about right now. Dear colleagues, no one's insisting on it? So there's no objection to the committee's proposal to accept it as a basis and as a whole? Is there no objection? Please, there is a denial. I'm going to put two to a vote on adoption, one minute, and I'm going to put two to a vote on the bill as a basis, can you do that? I'm voting for adoption on the basis of draft Law 4817. [[15:48:43]] For the 320. Decision taken. What are some suggestions? Please. Viacheslav Kirilenko, one minute, respectable, respected colleagues, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u328	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “For Ukraine” MP. Dear Mr. Head of the Supreme Council! Dear colleagues! I urge you not to violate the Rules of Procedure of the Ukrainian Parliament, our group will have the principle of reference to the text that has just been adopted in the first reading. So we ask that we be able to amend and consider this bill in a state-of-the-art way in a second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u329	I can only say one thing about this, my dear fellow, if you tell me that I've violated the Rules, for example? Like what? I've never broken the Rules. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u330	Dear colleagues, of course, it can be said that the Rules provide for the obligation to allow the people's deputies of Ukraine to amend any law adopted in the first reading to be based on the Supreme Council. In this case, for the first time, I stress once again, in the history of the Ukrainian Supreme Council, there is a situation where this law, which is already in force in Ukraine, has a word in which a coma is returned to the session room after the Constitutional Court judges have indicated that the date laid down in the publication of this bill should be different from their point of view. There was no question of standards. So this is kind of a unique question that we've come up with. It is not regulated by a special unit, of course, by one of our Rules. So I think that here the Ukrainian national MPs can decide on a possible procedure for adopting a decision on this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u331	Dear colleagues, what are some other suggestions? Please. Dear colleagues, I will put to the vote for the decision of the Supreme Council. Viachelav Kirilenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u332	Viacheslav Kirilenko is the “For Ukraine” MP. Once again, I call upon all of our former MPs to say that they are not buttoned up, as all MPs claim without exception. If we had some adjustments in the previous questions and they weren't taken into account. If we've had significant remarks in the daytime, and they're not taken into account, they're essentially rejected. So don't deprive us of the right to amend the Code of Law 4817, which is now being considered in the ordinary regime and requires a second reading if someone insists on these readings and amendments. So I'm officially insisting on that we want to make some adjustments and have the MPs look at them. Therefore, I ask to listen to the Rules of Law and the Constitution of Ukraine to my position as Ukrainian national deputy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u333	Dear colleagues. Ah, Portnov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u334	Andrey Portnova faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. The Honourable People's Deputies of Ukraine, in order to resolve the dispute that has now arisen at the meeting of the Supreme Council, in order to answer the question of Vijacheslav Anatolievich Kirilenka, I propose to put to the vote the question of whether it is appropriate to give a second reading due to the unique situation that the First Deputy Chief of the Supreme Council, Mr. Lavrinovich Alexander Volodymyrovich, has informed us about, and if the Supreme Council of Ukraine is now determined by a majority of the votes that we need to put to the vote in order to vote in general, it will be. Because we do not need to be brought up by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and show us that we wrongly assigned the number to that date. So we suggest we put this question to a vote. Once again, please make your point, for that is so with you. the essence of the Supreme Council's proposal. Microphone, please, Portnova.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u335	The essence of the proposal. Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, the essence of my proposal is the following: to now vote on the bill as a whole. And in order for us not to violate the procedure, to put the question to the vote now that we have the opportunity to vote in general without a 7-day or 14-day break in work.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u336	Dear colleagues, one minute, you will all be relieved by my offer. Ivan Alexandrovich, one minute. Let's do it this way. Dear colleagues, the point is that the Supreme Council can now vote and take a decision and vote on this law as a whole. The MP will write, referring to the 48th article of the Rules, and I will be forced not to sign, and I will have to refer it to the Committee. And we're going to be showing each other the position here. We took it as a basis, let's take it as a whole in the next session. Well, they have the right to amend the law. Just a minute. What Arzewitten proposed did not meet the requirements of the Rules. So let's go this way, well that's not what's burning the whole country today. I understand I'm going to put it to a vote right now, we're going to vote, they're going to write in the 48th article of the Rules, and I'm going to have to not sign this law, you know. Let's get this over with. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. All of it. Well, that doesn't add anything to it. There'll be no added value, dear fellows. [[B in m in s a l in]] What should I vote on? Well, we vote now, but they're right, I can't take the deputy, I can't take the right to amend. I understand, but dear colleagues, we see it as a common law. Why should we create a conflict? Well, you know what I mean. Please, Adam Martinyuk, then John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u337	Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, let's listen to the Head of the Supreme Council, and I'll explain what the situation is. We can now, really get 320-330 votes to adopt this law as a law. But in order for him to become a law, it is necessary for the Head of the Supreme Council to sign and send him to the President. There will be a statement under the 48th article of the Rules, the Head of the Supreme Council, without a decision by the Regulatory Committee, which is unlikely to meet tomorrow-after tomorrow. And after the decision of the Standing Committee, once again, the decision of the Supreme Council, the decision of the Supreme Council, is necessary. So we're going to have to make decisions with you in the session room, support the proposal or not. When will we be with you? I think everyone understands. So let's agree that in the first reading. Let us not make it lawful for the Constitutional Court to declare it unconstitutional. Or they can take advantage of it. Let's stop at that.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u338	Ivan Hare, please. Then there's Lilia Grigorovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u339	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. Well, I'm surprised when the principle is demonstrated -- the Supreme Council can do anything. The Supreme Council can't do anything. And the Supreme Council acts in a manner defined by the Constitution and by legislation. Therefore, no one, nor in the Rules, has the right to deprive me of my offer today. And now it's about essentially the arguments that were called here. The Constitutional Court did not consider, in fact, this bill. If he actually considers this bill, you'll get a lot of other approvals for the unconstitutionality of one or the other clauses. So, Vladimir Mikhailovich, you just don't have the right as chairman to submit to this principle, the Supreme Council has everything to do with our right not to postpone this bill to the best of times.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u340	Lilia Grigorovitch, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u341	Lilia Grigorović, “For Ukraine” MP, “Our Ukraine”. If we looked under the walls of the Supreme Council, there were so many people today to complain that there was no law in force in the country. For different reasons in different regions, different people don't work. Today, this law ceases to work in the Supreme Council. What Is the Purpose? What's the point? As wise as it is, the cunning lawyers who reported and explained that it is necessary to take the right of every MP to amend the second reading, the conclusion is only one: this is how two megapolite want ad hoc – to take away any right in 46 million. By taking up 80 percent of national, national, wealth before that. So thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, for your faithful constitutional, parliamentary, civil and human position. Keep it that way.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u342	Vladimir Bondarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u343	Vladimir Bondarenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear friends, let's calm down. What's the point? We considered this law in our own time in the first, second, and all other readings and approved it. He went through the entire parliamentary procedure. Without any change, without a single coma, for the first time, we get formal signs of a change in one number on a date, and this law has been returned to us. That's how you can keep playing. And the Constitutional Court is deciding here its question: it was defending itself, first of all, and some group that today stands for the President's interests, which will certainly go back in history, they are fighting today to save him the opportunity to avoid impeachment. Hence, the motives for action are well - known today. I'd like us to take that into account. But if today's issue is considered to be contentious, let's get it right, let's do it on a regular basis, and eventually this law will be passed in a way that we have today without any change in any coma, but just with a draw.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u344	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's finish on this note. The point is, if the Supreme Council of Ukraine had the right to confirm its law, such as after the Constitutional Court’s decision, then it would be a different logic for events. It is now quite right for colleagues to ask the question that we are considering the normal regulatory procedure. There's a warning. Let's not push each other. We accepted it as a foundation. At the next meeting, I think he'll be ready for his second reading, and we'll look at it. No objections? I thank you for your support. And now the final question is the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on urgent measures to stabilize the situation in Ukraine's agri-industrial complex. Vaszczuk Katerina Timofievna, please. Well, here's a brief report, then we'll take it up.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u345	Dear colleagues, this year agricultural producers have found themselves in a very difficult economic situation. Prices fell sharply on their products, unavailable credits, excessively high energy prices, fuel-oil materials, finesse, protective equipment, technology. A particular concern is the state of funding expenditure under the Ministry of Agrarian Policy at the expense of the state budget general fund, according to support programmes for the development of APC enterprises in the first half of this year. Yes, in January-July, the sector is actually underfunded by almost 300 million dollars. Particularly important are the financing of tribal animal support — by 70 percent, vegetation — 34 percent, support for the production of animal production — for a special budget subsidy for the increase in the production of dairy, meat, and combined crops is only 21 percent. And the meat course is 8 percent. That is, the articles are almost unfunded. The decree provides for the inescapable implementation of our Law on the State Budget of Ukraine for this year, as well as an analysis of the implementation of its own regulations. To date, 23 decisions on the development of the APC have been taken by the government. Wonderful decisions! The trouble is, they just don't work. In addition, we propose and give the Cabinet of Ministers the right to apply the budget for the following year, to implement our country's priority development law with you, and to approve, to submit at least 10 percent of GDP to finance the agricultural sector. And also, dear colleagues, for today.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u346	Finish up. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u347	Yes, there is also a terrible situation in the bread market. In fact, an agrarian fund can buy up to 30 million a day today. There's plenty of bread in the market. We have to give the Cabinet the right. Yesterday, while speaking in Dnipropetrovsk, Julia Volodymyrna confirmed that up to 3 billion were on a pivotal basis. So the bread will sell, the money will go back to the budget, from the Stability Fund to allow you to buy bread. That's three points that will decide: once, the price will hold, second, it holds the weight that we can keep the price of bread in the difference, and third, it'll give the peasants the opportunity to get living costs on the autumn work. And two moments short, these are our amendments to the technical review law, so they don't take all the technology into one institution that's in the central area. And to take into account, and to pass a law that provides for employment, internships for those workers who work on a personal farm and sell to the state what they produce.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u348	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u349	That's the whole verdict. I'm talking to you, dear colleagues, we supported the banks today, we supported everything today if two megafactions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u350	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u351	If they don't support this decision, it's not going to be clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u352	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? Please, let's do it then. Okay, Kiseliov, Kirilenko, please. Let's go like this, I think now. The more comfortable you are, the more comfortable you are, the more comfortable you are. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u353	Thank you. Dear colleagues, on May 29, 2009, without serious preparation, without taking into account the harsh conditions of the current year, less than a month before the mass production of the new crop in exchange for the State standard DSTI 3768.2004, new technical conditions for wheat seed have been put into effect. As a result of the sharp increase in the requirements of the grain part, the change in color, the protein content and the glue, and especially the size and size of the calibrations. wheat, which was adopted in the first and third classes last year, is accepted in this year only by the sixth class, which led to a reduction in the cost of grain from 1250 to 780 dollars per tonne. In addition, changes to the standard apply only to state-owned food and agriculture enterprises. In view of the above, I propose that for 2009 I leave the DSTD 3768.2004 with no change adopted on 29 May 2009. And a second offer. I fully support my colleague, who spoke to me in part so that the DAI could conduct or create conditions for a state-of-the-art technician in the centers. Because in 250 kilometers today, technology is being chased to Simferopol from the Black Sea region, and if it hasn't passed, it's being chased back, and it's been happening for months. So, colleagues, please support these proposals.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u354	Thank you. Ivan Kirilenko, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u355	Dear fellows, dear Head! At the last meeting of the government, which took place yesterday at Dnipropetrovska, there were only 23 draft rulings on agrarian issues. A government meeting has now begun, as a number of decrees were approved yesterday. And a number of issues that were raised yesterday are now being discussed at a government meeting. At the previous meeting, the 12 decrees were adopted. Dear colleagues! The problems are far more than the regulations and the determination that we make. Our proposal is to give the month of August to the government with those normative acts that it has worked and adopted, including the quality of food grain. And this decision was considered, including the fares for transportation, for the services of elevators, for the services of trans-shipments, and so on. Various port inspections. This decision is now approved by the government. Colleagues, let's see how it's going to be done and on September 1st we're going to go back to this decision, and you're going to see its edition is going to be completely different. Today we're proposing not to look at it because 12 orders last week, 23 yesterday, it's a cover-up. Let's go back to this one on September 1st, it's going to have a completely different version. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u356	Colleagues who have yet to be warned. Who's up there? I can't see, blind. Who's the name? What's your name? Pudov, please. And then one minute, and then Adam Martinyuk. All of it. Pudov, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u357	I won't scream, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I want to meet you in person, I haven't met the previous speaker for a long time, I haven't met him, and then he says my last name now. My name is Pudov from the word “pud – 16 kilograms”. And apparently because I don't speak very often, she doesn't remember much. But what I'm saying is, it's an impossibility to make a decision than it's justified. Because now that there are no wholesales, there are other prices, and when it's still difficult to find a farmer who's got some specific help -- to make that decision inappropriately, we have to wait. Agrarian. He will also wait for his proposals.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u358	Thank you for your wise thinking. Please, Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u359	Thank you, Martinuk faction Communists. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! From the statements of a colleague representing the factions here, it seems that the faction that should have voted and voted in favour of this bill now proposes that these issues be decided by others, and the Supreme Council remains outside. I think that we will only help the government to implement those 23 decrees of yesterday and today if we are to accept the Constitution to comply with the Supreme Council’s decree. Moreover, those of you who have looked closely at this draft decree see that it is a draft decision that is not cloudy, a draft decision that does not require anything impossible or asks the government questions or tasks that cannot be done because they do not correspond to the realities that have arisen. And first of all, we need to really, first of all, reinforce this decision by the government, and encourage the government to do what it promises, that's what it does with the agrarian fund. In fact, if we don't have the funds, the extra funds for the agrarian fund today, that huge work, the tremendous efforts of the people of the village who have gathered and this year's relatively good harvest will end and come to nothing. Then we're going to set aside, but there's not going to be anything left to save, there's not going to be any grain left, if there is, there's going to be. How it's found today. So, honourable colleagues, once again, I emphasize, carefully look at the determination, it puts real problems and problems, and let's finish our next session today on this good chord note. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u360	Thank you. Dear colleagues. What?Oh, my God! But he didn't talk to you. Well, please, Kirilenko, Ivan Grigorovich, just please tell me that if we're talking about what a team is, there's a coalition, at least once, that you support a decision. If you think you're all big, just gonna vote what you want, then I think by autumn it'll all be over.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u361	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Yesterday, decision 1250 for a ton of food grain, 2 billion money was set aside from the stabilization fund for the purchase of grain. So all the questions solved, removed, let's work on the month and see how these decisions are implemented, and then in September, September 1st, let's go back to it. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u362	Dear colleagues, let's put it this way. We have a strange situation. The Supreme Council of Ukraine should, is obliged and called upon to perform control functions. Here is a reminder from the Cabinet of Ministers that it must do what is budgeted in part of the support of the APC rather than take new decisions. And obviously, if we feel that the Supreme Council of Ukraine is not needed, let's just say that we're going to let it go, and it shouldn't respond to the questions that people are facing. The proposal to accept this document means, we understand and we know what the problems are. And here are the recommendations of the Cabinet of Ministers. What's so wrong with that? If we feel that it is not only necessary to serve and make decisions, let’s say that you did not have to make the decisions you made today. Because the Ukrainian people don't need them either. So let us demonstrate this principle. If we stand for the need to respond so that people will hear that decisions are made not only by the politicians and the political forces but also by the people needed, let us say that we know at least what is going on in the country. Not right away. We'll wait a month. So with the same success in banking and banking, we can wait for the presidential election. Well, let's do this by supporting each other somehow. On the Conciliation Board, yes, and the water has already entered. Please, let's go this way. So let's sum it up. I put to the vote a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine 5001, taking into account the proposal of Vasil Alexiyovich Kiselov, which he read for adoption as a basis. Please. On the basis, we'll see what's next. [[16:14:12]] For 115 The decision is not accepted. The factions. Party of Regions – 40, Block of Timoshenko – 1, Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense – 27, Communists – 27, Block of Lithuania – 20, non-fractional – 0. Please, what's the point? Rudchenko or Vaschuk. Vaszczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u363	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm not going to address the national MPs right now. You've all heard how intense the debate over banks was, the funds that go to finance and support the banking sector, how friendly the two megafractions voted in favour of the President's election, and how intensely it burns to the general MPs, except for those factions that honestly supported the village, and the situation that is in the APC. Political purpose takes precedence over common sense, over the logic that every national MP has, because the vast majority of national MPs are decent people, they would uphold that law. But there is the will of leaders who feel that they should be the only ones today. That's why we're changing the election law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u364	Honorable National Deputies, a list of issues to be considered. Please, John the Rabbit. Please withdraw the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u365	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. It was a very symbolic decision. It has shown once again that today the Ukrainian village will be destroyed to the end, because now the harvest, now there is grain, now there is much to be done in the village and that is why it must be looted. In order to rob, it is necessary not to accept this decision. So that's the real motive of those who didn't vote, and that's 50 percent of those who did. I am very ashamed and pained by these national MPs who have been very patiently seated and sitting on this Presidential Election Act, which will essentially allow this power to be divided into poles, which will essentially remove the electorate from the will to be elected. And here they showed this kind of attitude toward the village. It's very painful that we have such deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u366	Thank you. V’cheslav Kirilenko, then Kiselov, then Rudchenko. Then Pudov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u367	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “For Ukraine” MP. Dear voters, reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! This is, by the way, the case where the pro-Ukraine parliamentary group fully supports the draft decision that was put before Parliament by your bloc. What's more, yesterday there was a government meeting, a coalition government, and your faction in the coalition, about an agri-industrial complex. Thus, even from the official sources alone, it is known that virtually all the questions discussed at that meeting are the questions that are now reflected in Catherine Vaschuk’s decision. Here, I have a question. Either the government doesn't want to make its own decisions, or it's just getting ahead of itself with the Cabinet's ruling to get the laurels to any political power, and the rest. Second, it upsets us all the more. Because it's not about the village, it's about people's interests, it's about basic politics. So I urge you to return to the vote now. I'd like to vote. We'll vote again and we'll take a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u368	Sergey Kiselov, please. But there are no cards left, please insert the cards.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u369	Dear colleagues! I didn't say what I said in my speech right now. The thing is, yesterday, under my honest word, the Moscow Route was not covered by farmers and farm workers. They got here today. Because they're taking grain for nothing. He's got to prepare for the seed, he's got to pay for the loans, and he's got the grain twice as much. Because, once again, the guest was introduced a month before harvesting and today people are being robbed. Especially when they put them on the seed. And he was put on food grain today. And people are just being destroyed. I therefore ask whether to vote, or Vladimir Mihajlovich, as President of the Supreme Council, to ask the Prime Minister to abolish the new guest. He's destroying the last pieces in the village today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u370	Now there's only 244 cards. Please, Rudchenko, and then Pudov. If you have a wish, I'll put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u371	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues and friends! I especially refer to John Grigorovich as an expert and professor in agricultural production. In September, there will be nothing to do in the countryside. We have no moral right to leave this room today without returning or voting for the decision made by Catherine Vaschuk. I'm talking to you again. Today, we are being heard by farmers who do not have a single movement of the grain, even though the link is in the river. There's nothing to buy "hot" for, there's no way to pay the salary, to put out the loans, and so on. This arrangement does not require “older ” funds from the state budget. They're long overdue. All we have to do is pay off our agrarians. Let us return to this decision and vote on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u372	People's representative of Pudov, please. Julia Timoshenko's faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u373	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, respected TV viewers! I want to address you and say that those “crocodilian tears” that are pouring on the grounds that the village is dying are pouring out those who are robbing the village. And that's definitely true!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u374	That's what you're talking about, isn't it?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u375	And I want to tell you, right now, they want to buy everything for nothing, and they're referring to the fact that there's been an increase in fuel prices. It was always “Christians ” who were robbed when they were gathering or sowing! And there's nothing to say about that. We should, as we say, wait, we need market prices and the "Christians" will understand us. They will “understand” that we have stopped “the robbery”. And I invite our colleagues not to vote in favour of this order. And all these re-votings are fraud.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-24-m0.u376	I think you've learned very well at DOSAAF what problems agrarians have and how to solve them. You know them very well. But I go to my colleagues and I want to say6 “Dear colleagues! There's probably even corporate solidarity, and there's got to be some kind of basic conscience on this issue when we only support each other when you need one another. Even so, it would be possible to vote in favour of this decision. That's not how partners do things. So I'm going to put a vote on the return to the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the return to the draft ruling. [[Registration number 5011]] It's your business. We vote for people, not for you. [[16:22:17]] For 113 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party 29, Timoshenko Block 4, "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" 38, communists 22, "Litvina Block" 20, non-fractional 0. Dear colleagues, the next session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call I declare closed.
