ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:41]] Dear colleagues, 438 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the day of the birth of Ukrainian National Deputies, Koržev Anatolia Leonidovich and Ukolova Viktor Aleksandrovitch. Let us welcome our colleagues, wish them health and success in the work. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, yesterday at the plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we discussed 12 issues of the agenda. Three decrees were adopted, two bills and three draft decrees were adopted as a basis. Two bills and four draft decrees were rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to consult. Yesterday, we began a discussion of the issue: Information from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine about the implementation of the State Budget of Ukraine in the first half of 2009. In this regard, a report was made by the representative of the Cabinet of Ministers, Merkovsky Anatoly Ivanovich. Now we have to go to the question. Is he gone? But one minute, we have a problem here, we need to figure it out. I can't see Merkovsky. Dear colleagues! Maybe let's do it this way, one minute, I'm asking you attention. We have a colossal, please note, we have a certain colossal. We have begun our consideration of the issue and we have to finish it, but in accordance with the Ukrainian Supreme Council Rules, we have 30 minutes on Wednesday for statements by deputies with statements, messages and information. Then maybe I would. Should I vote? Put to the vote to. No, we've got the question, we've started, we've got to finish, you know? So I'm going to put this proposal to the vote because we have a coalition, please note, the Supreme Council of Ukraine needs to be determined to stop the debate and to take 30 minutes under the Rules now to make statements, messages, information from the people's deputies. Is there no objection?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u2	So I'm going to put this motion to the vote, please vote. [[10:05:15]] For 363 Thus, the honourable colleagues, “in favor, ” voted 363 people’s deputies, the decision was taken. I'd like the National Deputies to sign up for a statement from the rostrum. It's a recording. Edward Prutnik, faction of the Party of the Regions, next will be Valery Baranov. Edward Prutnik, please. So let's say that the honourable colleagues, if Prutnik is, pass it on. I'll be blamed, you know, by my esteemed colleagues. If Prutnik comes along, we'll come back, leave him on the list. Valerius Baranov, please, the Lithuanian Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u3	I give the word to Shershun.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u4	Mikola Sherschun, please. There's a ram.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u5	Mikola Shershun, Block Lithuania. Dear Head, fellows! First of all, I would like to welcome all the voters to the fact that the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on the first reading, passed the law on raising social standards proposed by the Lithuanian Block. I want to draw your attention, your attention, and the attention of government officials to the painful problems of Ukrainian energy. Of these two, I think, are strategic. First. There's only one and a half years left before the deadline for the use of energy clouds in some of Ukraine's nuclear stations. In particular, two of the first blocks of the Plain AES are immediately available. At first glance, there seems to be no reason for anxiety, since plans and schedules for their extension seem to be in place. But according to the 2008 report of the State Committee on Nuclear Control, there has been a tendency to break the deadlines for the implementation of the main measures of the continuation of the first block of the Plain AES. It should be emphasized that such work is done for the first time in Ukraine. So we urge the government to work more specifically and responsibly on these issues. But the question of financing jobs from the continuation of the use of energy clouds. Otherwise, as it were, you can play. A Mirgian atom does not forgive negligence. And in Ukraine this “experience” was very well learned. And if we have to stop the power grids, the city of energy workers will become a city of unemployed people when parents wear and feed their children for nothing. The second strategic problem is that some nuclear power plants, with enormous capacity, cannot use them fully. For example, the Plain Atomic Station has a power of about three thousand megawatts, but it doesn't even use half. The reason for the dark Ukrainian cities and villages, highways, and parks is that electricity has nowhere to go. There have been attempts to convert housing and utilities into electricity, and even the administration has adopted the appropriate government in 2004, but there is no mechanism for implementing this document to date. Globally, the decision to build a new power line to Kiev, its launch will take off the so-called, control restrictions, which will allow the Plains and Hmelnic nuclear power plants to produce an additional 3 billion kilowatts of electricity each year. The numbers testify for themselves. The cost of the project was set aside, but unfortunately, the land drainage issue in the Kyiv region did not resolve quite well. To sum up, I must say that such actions endanger the country’s energy security. Therefore, the ‘Lithuania Block’ calls on all government structures to unite efforts in joint action in the implementation of strategically important state programmes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u6	People's Deputy Skudar, faction of the Party of the Regions. What's the matter? Yes. I'm sorry. The right to speak is handed over to Hannah Herman, to prepare Moses. Please, Anna Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u7	Dear colleagues, there have been two events this week that will have a significant impact on the development of the Ukrainian state after the presidential elections. First of all, yesterday Parliament proved that most in this Parliament are decent and honest people who care for Ukrainian citizens and who care for those who are most lacking in that care. We've had to block Parliament for months, lose ratings. It wasn't easy for us to explain to people why we're blocking Parliament. But yesterday people realized that our methods were right and that we were able to achieve our own. We've all taken the first step with you on the way to raising wages and pensions, and I think it's a common victory for all the honest deputies who care about the people who chose them. The second event that happened this week is that my colleague, who in a very difficult time when there was no press freedom in Ukraine, had the courage to say that it was wrong to bring the criticism of the government and Timoshenko to court. I thank you for this, I thank you for this, Mikoli Tomenko, who has found the courage to say it. But I think it's courage to say it should find Julia Timoshenko in it. She has to admit that banning criticism today is the way to nowhere, it's the way to a dictatorship she's unfortunately started talking about very often. And the third event that happened yesterday. Yesterday and this morning, we see that Ukrainians are trying to kill in their head a new slogan that Ukraine is the one. Dear friends, Ukraine is us, millions of Ukrainians who do so much every day to make our country live and prosper. Ukraine is both MPs and miners. And whoever writes today and has convinced himself that Ukraine is the one who has no prospect in this country, no one who wants to privatise this brand and the name of our state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u8	Dear National MPs, Viácheslav Kirilenko is invited to the presentation, he has three minutes and is given the right to speak by his colleague Moisik Volodymir Romanovich, or 6 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u9	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “For Ukraine! ” Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! Yesterday, we finally convinced the voters that the Supreme Council, although sometimes and at least from somewhere, could work. I want to say that our position, the "For Ukraine!" MP group, that social standards need to be raised has not changed throughout these discussions. But I have a question as to how the MP and as to the citizen: “Why couldn’t we just vote on the drafts of the relevant laws and block Parliament during the last four months?” We started this process in June, July, August, September, and ended it in October. Why would this theater be absurd when it could have just been voted on? We know what the reasons for this parliamentary opposition, both the largest political forces, and the Party of Regions, and the BUIT, are favourable. Some are demonstrating one and others are demonstrating the other. One illustrates with the help of deputies who are essentially involved in a foreign play, what they are blocking and what they are working on; and others accuse even of refusing to talk about raising social standards. This policy has become evident not only in Ukraine but also throughout the world, and that means that double standards in Ukrainian politics must eventually cease. Next. We are concerned about the effective work of Parliament in the coming months at all. We have a question: "Will the fan clubs of presidential candidates, who will soon be one and a half in the Ukrainian Parliament, be able to overpower themselves and the intentions of their leaders and work not for their electoral campaign, but for the adoption of those bills that the country badly needs?" And there are no positive responses in the parliamentary group “For Ukraine!” on this topic. Next. We say: “Elections, elections and once more elections.” Well, at least the presidential candidates say that. The presidential election will be followed by the local elections, and the corresponding draft decision has been put in place; the local elections may be followed by parliamentary elections and so on and so forth. So this distance from this day can take another one and a half years or two: elections, accusations of results, political opposition. And the question is, when will a country and any political power in general engage in reform as such? Will there be endless elections and endless opposition? What, for example, will the Ukrainian army endure for another two years in a state of incompetence? When budgeted and underfunded this year and budgeted next year, less than half of what is needed is planned. Soldiers and officers will be waiting for the election for another two years? I don't think they can take it? And the defense will fall. And what will the economy expect for two years? The worst tax system in Europe will remain unchanged for another two years? Because elections and all against everyone. A small enterprise will suffer for another two years? For all against all, the superior officials are fighting one another, not to reform and not to work in the interests of small businesses, for example. What about the Ukrainian information space, and he will also be waiting for two more years to be elected? Now, the Ukrainian information space has been transformed into a passage yard, it has been walked by anyone, mainly external influences, mostly external information, and information provocations against Ukraine are obvious to everyone every day, including through channels that make speech from other countries. So we're going to wait another two years with this, because never before do candidates fight with each other, nobody thinks about the country. Therefore, the parliamentary group "For Ukraine!", despite the fact that sectors are divided by their support for each candidate here, insists that Parliament focus on the consideration of those bills that should not depend on the political economy today. On the other hand, we stress that our bills are not being tabled in the daytime, not even those bills that are an example of perhaps the only successful reform in Ukraine now being carried out by this government. The draft law on external independent testing on first reading has been approved and is likely to be on the profile committee for six months. [[4241]] So this reform doesn't like it either. We'll wait for the presidential election, and then someone will close it at all, although people, parents, aboriginals have supported this reform, and it's the only one that's been visible in Ukraine in recent years at all. In addition, we insist on the introduction of a daily series of bills, which are of an urgent nature and introduced by the deputies of the “For Ukraine!” group. In particular, amendments to the legislation on the implementation of national regulatory policies, the passport law of a Ukrainian citizen, introduced by the National MP Moses, the bill on national cultural product, the bill on professional self-governments, amendments to the Law on Personal Agriculture, bills on creating favourable conditions for the development of national cinematography, amendments to the Law on Taxation System, general mandatory social, medical insurance, medical self-government and so on. [[4139]] Repeat, our repeated unanswerable appeals. This is the kind of bill that countries should do, not the effort to take over the rostrum first. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u10	Katerina Vaschuk, please. Afterwards, Popov's national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u11	Katerina Vashuk, “Block of Lithuania”. I would like to address this rostrum today on behalf of my fellow national deputies to our President, the Minister for Family Affairs, and the young on such matters. Lately, I've been getting a lot of letters from heroin mothers complaining that they're being delayed in adhering to this title for years. What Is the Procrastination? Because it entails financial support, the payment of annual serious assistance. So, on behalf of the mothers of the Volina, with names on them, I've been to the Ministry repeatedly, and I'm told that it's a big turn. We are fighting in Ukraine to increase our population in order to provide a decent life for many children. No, we adopt such laws as may be the order of a mother who gives birth and raises her children? I don't understand. So once again from this rostrum, I ask that there be no longer such delay. And two questions to the government. One. There's been a lot of recent complaints from people at receptions, in letters about the state of the roads between villages. Today, as we prepare for the Euro, we build routes. That's very good. Beautiful roads. But try to get to a distant village. This will prove to be a torment, a trial. Our presidential candidates will probably not reach those villages except those who visit the people of the village. But we have to wager with you and the government for this year, the next money, so that there's not such a disgrace to the roads. And the third question. Today we talk a lot about raising production. A farmer raises cattle in his own backyard. He sells meat and milk, and he is not counted for processing. Why? Because they don't count with her. And so far, there is no total lending. Appropriate laws are being prepared, and the budget is being prepared. Dear colleagues, if we don't solve the issue of at least lending the village today, we will successfully put this field on two blades. And it won't be for long. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u12	National Deputy Popov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Jaroslav Kenzier will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u13	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! When I hear about the positive trends that the Government is talking about in dealing with housing and utility problems in Ukraine, at the very least, I am concerned that we are all being deceived. Here is another story on this issue on Monday, 5 September, on the electorate, which was dedicated to the preparation and entry of the heating season. Dear colleagues, let's take a look at the training situation, the technical problems of solving the industry. The Ministry of Housing and Utilities invited the regions to submit their proposals on how and to what extent the work related to the heating season would be carried out. Of course, local budgets and enterprises do not have funds, so they have made very small plans, which are now largely implemented through their small resources. But if we look at previous years, for example, in 2007, nine times the amount of major repairs that have been done, think about it! – nine times less than he was in 2007. Are we ready for the heating season, whether or not you think? Second question. Salary debt is increasing at an astronomical rate. Today, about a thousand people will pick up the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Why? Because by carrying out the carriage of concessional categories, they do not receive compensation from the State which they are obliged to receive. First, only 50 per cent were invested in the 2009 budget. But this amount is now financed by 38 per cent. Friends! Well, if people don't get three, four months' wages in their businesses, we can go through a normal heating season, what do you think? Of course not. Let us take a look at the state of local budgets and the state budget in terms of financing the housing services consumed. There's nothing there. Many local budgets do not have money for the fourth quarter today. Ask the Ministry of Defense, ask the Ministry of Education, there's no money. So who's going to pay for the utilities? If we do not yet accept the elevated social standards for which we voted in the first reading yesterday, the main consumer – the population of Ukraine will also not be able to pay for residential and utility services during the heating season. There are problems, and there are problems.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u14	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u15	The energy we need, how can we pay for it? Dear friends, this is a serious problem. And I strongly ask that you pay attention to it, especially to the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u16	The word is Jaroslav Kenzior, the faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u17	Jaroslav Kenzior, “For Ukraine!” Dear colleagues, Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I want to try to expand today, break down a myth that stubbornly entraps Ukrainian society. This myth is that the relevant political forces, the media, are entangled in the head of the Ukrainian electorate, that today's prime minister, his political power, is the only bright representative of national democracy, who is the only one able to resist the former regime's representative, Viktor Yanuković, as he is called everywhere. First. I must say that Victor Janukovic and Julia Volodymyrna are absolutely no different from each other. But to avoid being loud, I want to convince my colleagues. Are we today joining the national democracy of those politicians that have emerged from the Komsomol-Criminal Dnipropetrov clan? Are we counting into national democracy those who were two years ago on the threshold of the European Socialist International? Indeed, we are among the national democrats of those whose political team in Poltava, headed by the city’s head and the fraction of the BUB in Poltava, stands to die so as not to allow the monument to be installed by John Mazepi and Simon Petluri, our national heroes. Is it true that a national Democrat will vote in favour of the Civil Service Act, which legalizes a second state language; indeed, a national Democrat will vote in favour of the request of Communist Caliettnik to the President, which requires the removal of the President's decree to dismantle the communist monuments; it is necessary to prohibit the activities of neo-Fascist parties, that is, national-democratic parties and the restoration of Lenin's monument in Kiev? You can go on and on and on, but look how interesting it is that a team is formed around this national Democrat. We've already talked today about the verdict of the court against criticizing the Prime Minister. And here's another example for you. Movement, the head of the Movement, also from this nest: “Any action, decision of the district and district agencies of the Movement for support or promotion.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u18	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u19	Let me finish, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u20	Well, let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u21	any decision of the regional and regional organizations to support or appoint a candidate to the presidents is considered a crime, a violation of the Ukrainian People's Movement Statute.” I think Adam Ivanovich is jealous of the National Movement of Ukraine today because, I'm sure, the Communists don't have that position.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u22	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have received such allegations that the Tulub People's Deputies are transferring the right to speak to the People's Deputies, and Korge is handing over the rights to Ribub. If these deputies are present and handed over, there is no problem. If they're not here. Just a minute. Where's Tolub? Is there a Tulub? Just a minute. None. Come on, dear fellows, let's not make a mockery! Is there a national deputy, Corge? Yes. Is he giving the right to speak to whom? Fish? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u23	I want to say again, let's not. Please, are you speaking for Korja? Please, come on. Dear colleagues, I'm asking the factions not to do what they shouldn't do. Please come in.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, citizens of Ukraine! No one asks what language deaf people speak, and they communicate in sign language because they cannot speak any other language. And no one, not even the sickest head, will come up with the idea of banning sign language because it is not Ukrainian, for it is a birthright to communication and freedom of speech. It is only by the will of the Russian-dominated Ukrainian authorities that citizens of Ukraine are deprived of this right, in their native languages, for which the Russian or the languages of national minorities are Russian. The 17 million indigenous people of Ukraine have been deliberately assigned to the role of Nemocrat without the right to develop their mother tongue and to pass it on to subsequent generations. A terrible signal of future ethnic cleansing and persecution for the use of the mother tongue was Timoshenko Kabmin 1033, which even teachers in Ukrainian schools were required to speak only Ukrainian during their visit to the toilet. Teachers in other schools in the toilet are still allowed to use Ukrainian and native languages. I'd like to emphasize that for now. Vakarčukovina is flourishing painfully, “Vakarčukovšina” in education. Russian-speaking children are forbidden to pass tests in their own language. And schools have been subjected to the fullest Ukrainianization since 2011. According to studies of scientists, the child's education in the awkward language deteriorates its intellectual potential by 25 to 60 per cent. According to the teachers, there is a deliberate demobilization of Russian-speaking youth. In higher education, the most recent Russian-speaking universities are destroyed, the colour of the country's higher education. Indicative situation with the Black Sea branch of the Lomonosova ISU in Sevastopol. One of the best universities in the country, the Ministry of Education, under various pretexts, refuses to renew the licence. Deaf authorities on the Kiev hills have no understanding of the simple truths and principles according to which linguistic diversity is the way to prosperity and spiritual renaissance of the country. The Party of the Regions remained the main and probably the only political force that effectively protects the rights of Russian-speaking citizens of Ukraine. Over the past two years alone, we have prepared more than 20 bills providing for the legal status of the Russian language in accordance with the regional charter. And that doesn't violate the Constitution. We are working consistently, in a timely manner to support and protect the rights of citizens in their mother tongue. And even Europe and the civilized world no longer support the fascist Russians in power in Ukraine. On behalf of the Party of the Regions, I would like to make a formal statement: we hear the demands of the people of Ukraine and we will necessarily obtain legal status for the Russian language after the election of Viktor Yanuković, President of Ukraine. In Ukraine, a society of prosperity and prosperity will be built in which everyone, everyone, can freely use, develop his native language and culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u25	National MP Vladislav Lukyanov Yes, there is, there is, there is, Lukyanov. Please. The faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u26	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, honourable fellow MPs, honourable citizens! We saw with you yesterday the myth that was built around the fact that the Party of Regions didn't want to work. We had one clear, clear and principled position: we had to vote on bills to raise social standards. And we did it. Yesterday you saw that once the stupid voting ban had been lifted, the question that we had asked for to be resolved was probably the second year. These were originally the laws of Michael Papiev. And we asked the government to index minimum wages, pensions and social benefits according to the level of inflation in the state. Sadly, though, Mrs. Timoshenko’s promises at the end of the first quarter to review the budget and to increase pension payments ended with empty promises. Unfortunately, Mrs. Timoshenko has repeatedly deceived pensioners and the most incompetent groups of citizens in our country. But the Party of Regions still made it, our leader, Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic, took a stand, and we said that we require that we first look at the bills on increasing pensions, minimum wages, increasing the real level of minimum living. Unfortunately, our opponents, who now represent the majority and the environment of Mrs. Timoshenko, they say that you can't do that, you can't do that, go away, we have recipes to fill out the state budget, how to find, well I want to answer the representatives of the BUT, who are now asking where to get the money for the citizens. You've received more than $10 billion of external borrowing this year. This money was spent on the unfathomable program for most citizens. Although one person may say that Mrs. Timoshenko’s spending hundreds of millions of dollars has improved. No one, no one can say that. Therefore, at least 10 percent of the foolishly lost loans are given to ordinary citizens. This is the simplest recipe you need to implement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u27	Dear colleagues, you, speaking from factions, national MPs, statements, reports, information is complete. With regard to the proposals that need to be responded to, the relevant state institutions, I ask the secretariat to prepare appropriate proposals. Please, Andrew School. [[B in m in s a l in]] One minute, calm down. Dear colleagues, you'll all sign up for the performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u28	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Well, first of all, I'd like to talk about the positions. Here a national Democrat stood up and tore off applause right in that part of the room, which then presented his delegate as such, you know, an anti-Ukrainian patriot, and they both criticized the government: one for being small in national and democratic, and the other for being Russianophobic. So I think the truth is somewhere in the middle. Regardless of what the Party of Regions and representatives are, some representatives are national. The former representatives of the National Democratic Camp have united in their destructive criticism of the government, which will not help them. Their union was noticed not only in the session hall but also in the election campaign. Believe that we're going to build a patriotic Ukraine, we're going to build a country where no one is ashamed to live, and everyone is going to breathe and feel absolutely free in the Ukrainian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u29	The replicas are over. Dear colleagues, we are now continuing our work and at the same time I am informing you that the two factions are the BUT factions and the faction "Our Ukrainian People's Self-Defense" call for a 30-minute recess to be held. I suggest, my fellow officers, that we proceed with our work, and at eleven, or 10 minutes, at 10 hours, 50 minutes, the faction leaders will gather, and at the same time let the Supreme Council of Ukraine continue its consideration of the matter. Is there no objection? Well, then we'll get together at 10 o'clock 50 minutes, and I'll ask Alexander Volodymyrovich to continue the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, yesterday we began a discussion of the issue: the information of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the implementation of the State Budget of Ukraine in the first half of 2009. We heard information from the Cabinet of Ministers, and now we have a question. The questions are listed. Because there was a recording yesterday, we have a list, and we're going to follow that list now. No objections? I will read, national deputies: Karpuk, Cibenko, Pavlov, Azarov, Gordijenko, Harlim, Špenov, Jaroshtuk, Lukyanov, Bondarenko, Jury, Ephraim, Pecklusenko, Popov, Lapina, Žebravsky, Chechetov, Tulub, Skutjak, Landik, Grigorovich, Ribuk, Matvienko, Litwinov, Arzvitin, Suchi, Tabuk, Landik. So, Anatoly Ivanovich, please. Please ask time for questions. [[It's to the Secretariat.]] It's consistent with the rules. Questions from Vladimir Karpuk
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u30	Please pass the word to the National Deputy of Arjevetina.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u31	People's MP Arjevetin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u32	Thank you. National MP Arzhevtin, group “For Ukraine! ” Dear Anatoly Ivanovich, I have three questions for you. First question about Euro-2012. Please tell me what source you're replacing isn't the real source that you're betting on, because you know that the National Bank of Ukraine Board approved revenues of 696 million. Where will you find another source, that's the first question? 44 billion were earmarked for bank capitalization, you spent four. Please tell me, why are you standing still? Next. Name the author, please, who suggested that we remove from the budget the cost of exceeding the National Bank's income to the Population Deposit Guarantee Fund? Let the Ukrainians know this author who threatened to pay his contributions from the Population Guarantee Fund.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u33	Thank you for asking. On the first question, we're left with the stability fund, the funds that were foreseen for Euro-2012, 4.3 billion dollars, and we haven't been able to cut those funds from and from the stock fund. If we don't have revenue from the National Bank, we can channel the funds from the stock fund to this goal, that's 20 billion as it was, and it's still there. Next. We were capitalizing banks, not 4 billion dollars, but about 10 billion dollars, and you know that, three banks, I reported. And now we're looking at the issue of capitalization or solving the problem of two more banks. As for the Deposit Guarantee Fund, I want to tell you that in the ninth year, and we're looking at the 9th year performance rate, there were 1 billion dollars. And we've recalculated this cost to the Deposit Guarantee Fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u34	Yes, Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u35	Thank you. Communist faction, head of the Organization for Ukrainian Veterans, Peter Cibenko. Dear reporter! First, it's an impression. Yesterday's report by the Cabinet of Ministers is a classic attempt at how a failed, completely failed budget can be presented as a great success. Now, two specific questions. Please tell me, how is the program implemented this year after the provision of war invalids with automobiles? I'm going to remind you that the 2008 budget had 120 million, 113, if you're right with the special fund. And the second question. Please tell us, what payments have been made before Victory Day to those categories of Ukrainian citizens who have the right to them? For example, I remind you that the rule of law stipulates that for the disabled person of the Great Homeland War and the group, it's 5,000 dollars; for the disabled person of the Great Homeland War, it's 4,000 dollars. Please tell me, what amounts have been paid? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u36	Thank you for asking. I'll start with the second question. The sums were paid according to the amount that was included in the law. And according to the size of the State Budget Act. Well, I need to find a number, I guess. I can explain. But it'll take time. No, we paid the full amount provided for in the Budget Act, there's about 500 million dollars, we paid them that money. And on the first question. I just need some time to find statistics, but in this disability position, they refer to protected budget articles, these expenses, protected articles, and they are financed first. And if you need specific numbers, I can let you know after I find you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u37	Yes, National Deputy Pavlovenko, faction of the Party of Regions. Pauline Edward. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u38	Please pass the word Chechtev Mikhail Vasilovich Chechtov Mikhail Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u39	Michaela Checht Mike.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u40	Dear Anatoly Ivanovich, well, God is with him, failed when the 2008 budget was not adjusted. Well, God is with him, even with the fact that you didn't catch the global trend at the end of 2008, that a deep financial crisis would also cover Ukraine. And the budget did well for other economic realities under 0.5 GDP growth, although the country fell deep into a crisis pit, losing 20 per cent of GDP. But even when the President had signed the budget, there had been reservations that the results of the first quarter would have to adjust the budget and bring it into line with the economic realities of the crisis in the country and that the adjustment had not taken place was one of the reasons for the deepest economic crisis and the depreciation of the currency in the country. I have a question, but why insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u41	Thank you. Thank you for asking. Ladies and gentlemen, I answered that question yesterday, but unfortunately, I didn't have any digital material. To date, I have prepared and I want to report that the 2009 budget figures, which was approved by the Supreme Council, are compared to those that we submitted on September 15, 2008, for 2009, three months after the submission and presentation of this budget against the financial crisis, we made a correction. The general budget of the State budget, which had been budgeted at 74.2 billion dollars, had decreased by 9.5, a total decrease of 64.7 billion dollars, or almost 17 percent, by the General Fund. So we've made some adjustments to the crisis. Similarly, the cost of the budget was reduced by 74.3 billion dollars. That's why I'm here. We believe that a correction has been made and this has enabled us to maintain the situation today.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u42	Yes. National Deputy Azarov Mikola Janović. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u43	Anatoly Ivanovic, please explain, with such a lack of resources, why did the Government compensate the so-called VAT in September for more than 7 billion dollars and who was reimbursed by the main recipients of the VAT?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u44	Thank you for asking. We have plans for monthly VAT reimbursements of 3.6 to 3.7 billion dollars. Indeed, in September there was almost double compensation, because we compensated 4.3 billion dollars of NAKU “Naftogaz Ukraine”. You know, we're buying gas at prices that are aggregated, at quarterly prices, that's what happened on the world market, taking into account the formula that's appropriate, and inside Ukraine we're selling at a stable price that's average per year, so we're getting VAT compensation for Naftogaz Ukraine. And these 4.3 were listed according to. the VAT legislation, 4.3.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u45	National Deputy Gordienko Sergei, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u46	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. Dear Anatoly Ivanovich, the government is plentiful about not sleeping, not eating, but just thinking about the well-being of Ukraine and its citizens and implementing this remarkable budget. I wanted to ask you, can you please tell me when the speculation on our village will end? Many programs in the agro-industrial complex are underfunded today. And you know that very well. You know, there's a problem with paying off VAT to individual agri-industrial enterprises. There is a special arrangement of the Cabinet of Ministers, which, in view of the difficult situation, offers them compensation. But there's a company called the “Voskobijnik” of the Shisatsk district of Poltav region for over a year, it's walking, it's beating all the thresholds, and it can't compensate a million of these VATes. When this is over.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u47	Thank you for asking. In terms of financing the costs of the agro-industry complex, in particular, we have a very clear Agrarian Fund, and all of the arrivals and implementations of the Agrarian Fund take place practically in real time. And there is no delay in financing the agrarian fund. You know, last year we increased the Agrarian Fund's resources by about 2 billion dollars. And this enabled us to actively intervene in 2009. As far as VAT compensation is concerned for a particular enterprise, I think we're going to write this enterprise down and do all the work to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u48	National Deputy Harlim, faction of the Party of the Regions. Sphen's Dmitri, faction of the Party of the Regions. Jarochuk Volodymir. Lukyanov Vladislav, please. Ah, Sphenov is, I'm sorry. Sphinx, microphone. Please, Lukyanov Vladislav.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u49	I would like to ask a question to the deputy minister, and I wanted him to tell me. On the one hand, we are now hearing constantly from the Prime Minister about the budget overrun and the additional revenue. About how good, well, it's like a miracle that the Ukrainian economy is developing at the same high rate. And on the other hand, we see information provided by independent experts. We see information from the World Bank, we see information from the International Monetary Fund and independent experts who say that the economic downturn is the deepest in Ukraine and that one of the factors behind this fall is that it is the government that did not support the domestic producer that has done everything to get as much imports into Ukraine as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u50	Thank you for asking. I'd like to draw attention once again to the fact that, of course, estimates of each year's performance, including 2009 the more until December, the more accurate estimate of the performance of macro indicators. But what I'd like to say is that the IMF made a forecast of 2.5 plus real GDP in this year in the spring of last year, in November, the underlying forecast of the IMF was 1.1 percent increase. Of course, we're already without the IMF as a result of 9 months of economic performance. But what I would like to stress is that we have a renewed work with the IMF, as evidenced by the IMF's support for our actions on socio-economic stability in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u51	Bondarenko Volodymyr Dmitrovich, faction of the "Julia Timoshenko Block". None. The jury of Mikola Volodymyrovich. Efraemov Alexander Sergiyovich. And he went to the Conciliation Council. He went to the Conciliation Council. Hell-bent Alexander Mikolayovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u52	Yes, I'm sorry. Anatoly Ivanovich, you are indeed a professional and well-deserved authority in the Supreme Council. I'm asking you, as a professional, what's your number, your professional figure, your non-involved political figure, what's your real budget deficit, how many countries are understated as a result of the year? That's the first question. Second question. Tell me, please, you have criticized us for 750 million returns to Zberbank, we now have this article, if it doesn't change my memory, 20 million is one hundred percent of what you promised. And the main question is, you and some of my colleagues are involved in taking 500 million off the bridge this year. You personally promised that this money would be made, that money would be sent to the Zaporozhye Bridges. Why to-today.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u53	Thank you for asking. With regard to the 2009 budget evaluation, I would like to say that the government is taking maximum measures to ensure that the income part is carried out and thus to ensure that salaries, pensions and scholarships are paid. And to this day we are completely a government with this. That's what he's up to. Of course, the forecast that we had in December was more or less more pessimistic in terms of economic development and we expect a failure to implement the income part of the budget. The exact figures, the exact figures of this failure can be analyzed by an analysis of the tax liability of our taxpayers, according to their declarations, which we have in accordance with the legislation around the first half of November. So I think we can give more accurate information later. As far as savings are concerned, you know that.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u54	Let me finish my answer. Finish it, Anatoly Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u55	Can I finish?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u56	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u57	With regard to savings payments, you know that last year we had an ambitious plan in full: to pay the first priority of such payments, according to the register that was made in our savings bank. Unfortunately, though, some of the money could not be used because privatization had been blocked, and these privatisation funds were to be earmarked for savings. In the future, if the Supreme Council supports such proposals, we can prepare, for the second reading, a plan of action with the Supreme Council for 2010 for the payment of devalued savings at the Savings Bank. As for the cost of building a bridge, you know that we have a bill registered in the Supreme Council, 4707, which aims to resolve all the issues of implementation in 2009. If there is good will, the Supreme Council we can consider this issue when we adopt this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u58	Popov Alexander Pavlovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u59	Dear Anatoly Ivanovich! Last year, the Government had virtually shut down the housing and utility reform programme, and it was about five times less funded than planned indicators. This year, 500 million dollars, but so far, funding is zero. First question: why is it this negative attitude towards this particular industry, the housing and utility sector of the Government? And the second. Well, I've already said today that Gorelektrotransport employees are picking up the Cabinet of Ministers today, demanding that the Government pay for the services they provide to concessional categories. Well, it's not a matter of principle for the Government, because it's practically a normal financing of these budgeted costs. They are now only financed by 38 per cent. Question to you: Will this problem eventually be solved or not? We, the members of the Party of the Regions, have already made several requests to Kabmin and have not responded.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u60	Thank you for asking. As for the expenditure on housing and utility reform, and, in particular, on energy conservation in housing and utilities, I would like to report that all the actions needed to make use of these funds have been adopted by the government: the manner in which the funds are used and given appropriate instructions to the ministries and local authorities in order for such projects to be prepared. Unfortunately, not everyone is today. Not all the objects that are needed. The projects are approved, and without projects, we can't use the money. There'll be projects, I think these funds are in the special fund, they'll be used by the end of the year. As far as the benefits are concerned. For today’s nine - month period, we funded nine twelve in fact from the annual volume increased compared to 2008. And in case there are any problems, we're ready in separate cities.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u61	Are you finished, Anatoly Ivanovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u62	We are ready to respond if there are specific cities with problems. But we're keeping it under control and we're actually making payments to these subsidies.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u63	Kseniya Mikhailevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u64	Please pass the word to Arjevetin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u65	Stanislaw Arzhevtin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u66	Dear Anatoly Ivanovich, I repeat my question to you once again. I specifically asked who the author of the changes to the budget for the elimination of the enumeration into the People's Investment Guarantee Fund of over-expenditures from the National Bank. We put it in the budget. They've been removed recently. Please tell the author to name for Ukraine, let them know that the People’s Deposit Guarantee Fund is under threat today. Because there was a standard: 20 percent of excess income goes to the Population Insurance Fund every year. You removed this rule from the guarantee fund, call the author for the Ukrainians. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u67	Thank you. Once again, I would like to say to the distinguished national MP that the 2009 budget has recorded 1 billion dollars in the expenditure plan, the replenishment of the Deposit Guarantee Fund. One billion dollars has been recalculated. So I don't see any problems in 2009. Thank you for asking. We counted 100 percent of the money.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u68	National deputy, Žebrovsky, please. There's no ribs. Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u69	The distinguished Anatoly Ivanovich, what I repeat was made under the growth of the economy, and in fact we are in a crisis, is of course a social budget to protect people. Of course, since the Government has failed in the projections, in the macroeconomic indicators, our currency has nearly doubled, and this has hurt people. But I have a question, and you must understand that the depreciation of the currency has subjective assumptions, and above all, it's a fierce struggle, a public fight between Minfin and the bank, who's to blame? Why, in public, should Minfina and the bank not clearly lead to society, which banks have been refinanced, what amounts, on what criteria, how have they used this money effectively? This could calm society, and we probably wouldn't have brought our currency to the point of devaluation that we have now. And it's a closed and constant struggle, it's practically depreciating the currency and it's naturally painful for the least disadvantaged.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u70	Thank you for asking. You know, we have separate functions of Minfin and Natzbank in our laws. And even I would like to say more, the differentiated functions of Kabmin are the corresponding Act on the Cabinet of Ministers, adopted by the Supreme Council. That's why we can't influence the volume and direction and the refinancing that the National Bank is doing. You know, we had an article in the Budget Act 2009, the 84th and the 86th, where we were supposed to define these volumes together, but at the request of all, as it were, international organizations, and Ukrainian officials, these rules were removed from the Budget Act. That's why we're based on current legislation on the National Bank and the Cabinet of Ministers, so everybody's in charge and in charge of their own sphere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u71	Zinovy Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u72	Dear Anatoly Ivanovich. We are told that a great deal of help in budget implementation and in increasing budget concessions could be the fight against or childishization of the economy. As far as we know, such information has been leaked, about six percent growth in shadow companies. And the policy that is being pursued by the government right now is putting entrepreneurship under the shadow. Whether there are any measures taken or measures taken to remedy this situation by keeping businesses out of the shadows and legally operating, and legally paying taxes to the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u73	Thank you for asking. Of course, in times of crisis, and this is a global economic theory, there is definitely an increase in the level of economic shadowing. This is not just a phenomenon that belongs to Ukraine, but it has been proved by prominent economic lights. So, of course, we're not being excluded, and there's also a certain increase in the shade in the economy. The government has proposed a number of changes to tax legislation, and I think you've probably heard a lot about changes that improve administration and the possibility of tax evasion. But I think the fundamental solution in this context should be to consider and adopt a new Tax Code, where we should clearly determine the maximum level of fiscal burden and that level, to reduce the amount of taxes and to redistribute accordingly between those who pay and do not pay. So let's make it even, make it even for all taxpayers. I think it's promising, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u74	Landik Valentin Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u75	Please pass the word "Peklushenko".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u76	Hell-bent Alexander Mikolayovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u77	Dear Anatoly Ivanovich, I congratulate you, you have grown up politically in the capacity to answer questions without answers. I repeat three questions that you haven't given any reasonable answers to, especially with regard to bridges. You know very well that apart from Law 4707, there is Law 4758, we cannot vote in favour of Law 4707, which raises prices by 90 per cent and affects the interests of our constituents, you have made this law specifically to overthrow the bridge law in Zaporozhye. So please stop being mean. You have all the tools. You have no political will and responsibility in your government. That is why the country has no other option: to change the government, then bridges.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u78	That's not a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u79	Ribuk Sergey Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u80	Dear Anatoly Ivanovich! I'm also saying that you're a professional and even an artist. For many years you have been professionally buried in Minfin. I want people looking at you right now, peasants looking at you in the face in the laurnet. And you're not telling the truth. Why are you talking about the Agrarian Fund like that? As soon as you were on the rostrum, we learned fresh information -- 304 million Agrarian funds owed to peasants for selling grain. And there's no grain, and there's no money! Plus 153 million dollars has not been returned to mortgage purchases. Half a billion tax dollars to the same Agrarian fund. That's the first one. The other one. We understand and I understand that there is a deficit in funds. But there is an “inviolable” – seed fund, selection, acquisition of a national created by the ages for the agrarian sphere. Why did you fund 0.4 percent of the seed selection program? Please give a specific answer to these two specific questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u81	Thank you for asking. We're funding the Agrarian Fund, I said, because of the revenue that's going on, it's coming from the realisation of the grain that we bought last year. You know that very well. Within these remittances, we are rapidly making changes to the budget schedule and making funding for new purchases. With regard to the financing of other expenditures in the Ministry of Agriculture, they are carried out within the framework of the legislative priorities. So first of all, we finance socially vulnerable articles. And second of all, expenses that aren't the primary. So if the selection in vegetation is less funded, I think we're going to write that question down, and we're going to work it out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u82	Grigorovich Lila Stepanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u83	I'd like you to give Arjevetine a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u84	Please, the People's Deputies of Arjevetin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u85	Anatoly Ivanovich, I'll ask you a third question. Who is the author of the idea- remove from the 2009 budget of the law a 20 percent recalculation to the Population Guarantee Fund? I would like to remind the deputies that in this room you and I have adopted a bill that provided for such a rule. Then we promised our Ukrainians 150,000 guaranteed return to any troubled bank. I remind you, we have 200 billion people today. The Guarantee Fund has about 5 billion dollars. This rule has been removed. Once again, Anatoly Ivanovich, call the author for the Ukrainians who removed this rule from the 2009 budget. Do not call the sum of the enumeration. It is not enough. Once again, the drafters of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u86	Thank you. I'd like to tell both the people's deputies and all the people here that if you didn't want to hear something else in 2009, we've counted 100 percent of the funds that are defined in Appendix 3. 1 billion dollars. We've fully calculated with the Deposit Guarantee Fund. What are you? If you propose to increase in 2009, we'll look at it, yes. And that bill that was voted on, I think, is 360 votes for the people's deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u87	Matvienko Anatoly Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u88	Look.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u89	None. Litwinov Leonid Fedorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u90	Anatoli Ivanovich, you told us very well how the government worked in the first half of 2009. Please tell me, how was the coal ministry financed? Why has it been ordered to pay only to miners and not to pay local and special funds? How can coal mining be provided to coal miners working in mines? And the second question. The shafts that were destroyed, very many workers or people were not attached to carbs and winters on their noses, and no one received a single tonne of coal. How is the funding of these groups going? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u91	Thank you for asking. You know, according to the Ministry of Coal, we've got 100 percent of what we've got under the law. And as of today, monthly payments are made to coal miners, month after month there is no debt. With regard to the deductions to the Pension Fund, those mines that have coal products and have a corresponding yield are doing these calculations. There is indeed today a payment debt to the Pension Fund, but this debt is covered by loans from the State Budget and the Pension Fund. In the following year 2009, this is what we propose in 2010 to regulate by appropriate regulation in the 2010 Budget Act. It is, we, in the presentation will be told about it. And according to the costs we're making for coal, we've made funding, probably.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u92	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u93	After buying coal from mines that are being eliminated or restructured, we've already counted over 100 million dollars, over 100 million dollars, and we've got 150 million dollars to pay for this year as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u94	Anatoly Ivanovich, and I have a question for you. Please tell me, in the first half of this year, what part of the anticipated government debt that was to be made. increased by the issuance of domestic government bonds in the internal market, what share of such bonds was released in the first half of the year?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u95	From the total?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u96	Yes, from the general forecast for the year.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u97	Yes, the general and special fund accounted for 10.6 percent of our deficit. 10.6 billion dollars in the first half of the year. That's 30 percent of the annual rate, 31 billion dollars. So it was in the first half of the year that we did not have much to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u98	In the internal market.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u99	In the internal market. The internal market is narrow and expensive. We're basically borrowing from the International Monetary Fund because it's cheaper, that's 5 times cheaper than borrowing from the internal market.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u100	Well, it's a loan. I meant not the loans here, but the bonds of the internal government loan that were granted to the Cabinet of Ministers. How much did you plan for a year, and how much did you put in the first half of the year?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u101	No, it needs a board, because I'm not a divisive external and internal loan.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u102	Thank you, Anatoly Ivanovich, then you'll let me know, I think I'll share the information with the Ukrainian National Deputies. Thank you. Please have a seat. Here's the question: Information from the Council of the National Bank of Ukraine on the Basic Principles of Monetary Policy for 2010. Reported the head of the Board of the National Bank of Poshenko, Petr Aleksiyovich. Please. Oh, I'm sorry. Excuse me. Peter Alexiyovich, wait a minute, I'm sorry. We're not done. We have a report from the head of the Chamber of Auditors, Simonenko Valentin Kostinović. Please, Valentin Costinovich. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u103	Dear Alexander Vladimirović, distinguished colleagues! You have in your hands the conclusion of the College of Accounts of the National Budget for the first half of the year. However, it is now October month, so in my report I will use more up-to-date macroeconomic and budgetary indicators of the analysis carried out. The reporting period clearly confirmed the worst concerns expressed by the Court of Auditors as a result of an expert evaluation of the draft State budget for the current year. The formation of the State budget on the basis of absolutely unrealistic macroeconomic indicators, ignoring more than one hundred laws and six provisions of the Constitution, has prejudged the impracticalness of its implementation and has become a major obstacle to the implementation of anti-crisis measures. The Government has not been able to halt the deep recession in the economy. Moreover, negative trends have recently increased considerably. None of the paragraphs stated in the anti-crisis programme have been implemented. You're on your own. As you know, the State budget for the current year is based on GDP growth of 0.4 per cent. However, according to an expert evaluation of the Court of Auditors, it fell by 18.3 per cent in eight months and the fall would be at least 15 to 16 per cent. Second. According to the budget, industrial output has increased, but it is not growing in 8 months this year, but falling in all industries. Overall, the decline was 29.6 per cent. The latter, the level of such a fall was in the distant year 1997, 12 years ago. Inflation forecast of 9.5 per cent for 2009. In nine months, that's the last figure, it was 9.1 per cent. According to our annual forecast, inflation will be at least 15 per cent. Fourth. There is an important source of financial growth for the economy, such as foreign investment. During the 8 months of this year, the net flow of foreign direct investment to Ukraine decreased by 3.3 times over the corresponding period of the previous year. The fifth is perhaps the most important. There is a sharp and steady, dynamic decline in the country's standard of living. Even the Government recognizes that January-August 2009 saw a 10.3 per cent reduction in real wages and that wages reached 1.6 billion dollars. These are the economic realities that determinate the implementation of the State budget. As a result of the 9 months of the year, there were threatening trends in income reductions in the public budget compared with the previous year. For example, if they fell by 14 billion bracelets in 8 months this year, in 9 months it is almost 23 billion bracelets. A few more analytical figures to feel the reality of our financial situation. In nine months, 146 billion grevens were added to the public budget — 61 per cent of the approved annual plan. Full, it is said, of a total fund of 107 billion bracelets, only 59 per cent. We estimate that 30 to 35 billion dollars per year will not be allocated to the general budget, which will amount to 16 to 17 per cent, which has been approved by law. In these financial realities, the Government reports on the successful implementation of the plans, which in itself establishes budgetary breakdowns and social problems, without mentioning what specific, can be their own. There is a continuous adjustment of income plans towards a reduction of more than 20 billion rubies for subsequent periods of the year. Nearly a third of the revenue of the State budget is derived from the diversion of working capital by economic actors, which is essentially a non-percent loan of public expenditure. Our expert estimates for September 1st that figure turned into 30 billion bracelets, and we say that there is support for the real economy. According to our expert assessment, the State budget, based on the capitalization of banks, will amount to at least 90 billion dollars of bracelets, not nearly three per cent of the GDP in the budget, is almost three times higher. However, even the adjusted expenditure of the General Fund of the State budget is not met. About 80 per cent of social budget programmes were not implemented after 8 months. But it's not even that, the trouble is that all the last resources for the last bracelets go to the current costs, but zero for development. What bridges could this be? As you know, the State Budget Act for the current year has obliged the Government to submit proposals to Parliament by 1 May to amend the budget parameters. All those involved in the budget process, except the Government, which has created its virtual field of use of the budget by means of sub-legislative acts, agree with the need to amend the budget. It seems that there is nothing wrong with that, but the budget is being squandered. I don't think there's anything wrong with life. But then tell me, where is the place of the Supreme Council? It is his constitutional right to whom to give and to whom not to give. Now on some landmark issues of the 2009 State budget. It's about government debt. I recall that in 2008 public debt doubled. This year's public debt continues to increase: it increased by 48 per cent in 8 months this year. As a result, only direct debt can double and exceed the thresholds defined in article 10 of the State Budget Act, more than one and a half times. About the Pension Fund. The whole country, respected colleagues, is surrounded by big boards, which read: “Despite the crisis, pensions are paid”. But no one asks what kind of means. Our analysis shows that pension payments are largely provided from the State budget at the expense of social programmes, and the main is the money in debt. Given the real implementation of the State budget, we are convinced that the possibility of further crediting the Pension Fund through the State budget by November of this year will be fully exhausted. Urgent measures must be taken, even arch-term measures. And the Stability Fund. It is known that macroeconomic stabilization is the key to ensuring this Stabilisation Fund. 9 billion in 9 months received 2.3 billion of this year's revenue. Further filling is more than problematic. The stabilising fund is distributed without Parliament, without agreement with the budgetary committee, and the additional budgetary resources of the Government remain — the Government’s pocket money, the Government’s pocket money. Consider: 2.3 million leftovers - 5.9 from next year, 8.1 billion grevens - this is distributed at the discretion of the Government. But most of all, it's not that. Above all, most of the funds are spent on the current nature, in particular, almost 3 billion dollars of grevens are directed at wages, which is almost unearmarked use of budgetary resources. But who will be responsible? And you agree with me that this is a rhetorical issue. Finally, what are the root causes of the threatening economic and financial situation in the country? The results of the expertise, analyses and studies carried out by the Court of Auditors show that the problem lies in the loss of governance of socio-economic processes in the country, the absolute irresponsibility of managers and performers at all levels, and a strong human resources policy. The results of the administrative audits carried out by the Court of Auditors of the leading ministries: Minfina, Mineconomy, Ministry of Labour and Societies show that they perform their functions for 25.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u104	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u105	25-30 per cent and the rights and preferences are applied to 100 per cent. Pick, the world's peak of crisis seems to have gone away, but we, respectable colleagues, judging from the real situation, are just getting started. It – a crisis – works.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u106	Dear people. What?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u107	Please, on the rostrum, Valentin Costinovich. Please sign up for questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u108	They don't ask questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u109	Cord Vitaly Terentiyovich, please. Fifteen minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u110	I'd like to give it to Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u111	Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Valentina Costinovich, well, you were standing on the same stand yesterday, weren't you? And you've been noticed by a number of colleagues that you're the head of the Accounting Chamber, by the way, we, the deputies, have chosen you for this position, you can't do politics. Why do you continue to do the same today? Allegories of what "crisis, there, works" are all suspended by running boards. You've come to speak with information. Then you give information, not politics and politics. I understand that you are illegally in the nation’s position and that you need to work out what you are illegally in. And you realize that the Supreme Council was long overdue to decide on your dismissal. And since you're counting on the support of the Party of Regions, he's actually acting as a member of the Party of Regions faction. I'm asking you to comply with the Civil Service Act, the Court of Auditors Act, you've reached that age when you're not.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u112	Complete the question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u113	You have no right to be in this position. Please, I'm asking you to apply and leave your post to babysit your grandchildren, not to pursue politics.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u114	You know, disrespectful, while still a national MP, there is such an old saying that a lion is wiser and stronger than a young jackal. So calm down. [[Applause]] He'll be here in a year and a half, and I'll go where I'm supposed to go.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u115	Suchenko Alexander Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u116	And if you answer your question, there is no policy here, there is no real state of affairs here, because any policy is a concentrated expression of the economy. Do you understand how? We will not pursue politics, but one coat of arms and a flag will remain from our independence.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u117	Sushenko Alexander Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u118	Valentina Konstantinovich, I've known you for quite a long time, a responsible person, a professional person. But in this case, I can't help but say no. You know, there's not much left after the jackals. And in our faction, I personally have the impression that we are close to such a ruby. But I'd like to hear it from you. I've been keeping an eye on your annual information reports and reports. So the dynamics have changed significantly between the approaches to creating and implementing budgets for 2007-8-9 years, and what would you recommend today both to parliamentarians and to government officials to take into account immediately? And the fact that the crisis in Ukraine is just beginning, you know, and not me, and not you, we're going to determine when it starts and when it ends. And you wouldn't have to work for the audience. Thank you for the answer in fact.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u119	Thank you. I've known you for a long time, too, and I have deep respect for you. But if. You know, you identify yourself with people like the previous People's Deputy, so if you'll excuse me. With regard to the trends that have been set up today. [[B in m in s a l in]] With regard to trends in budget implementation. The 2007 budget, you'll understand me correctly, has been set on average, but realistic, macroeconomic indicators. The 2008 budget was worse. The 2009 budget, macroeconomic indicators, were taken from the ceiling. And we say, in order to give, you read our expertise carefully, we give our opinions on each issue, on each budget line. Thus, there is the draft 2010 budget. This is what I'm giving you. We handed it to you. Here's Derek Nikolai Ivanovich, two days ago.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u120	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u121	Two days ago, the Budget Committee handed over such a book where, for each page, our recommendations are written for each article, the recommendations of people who do not belong to any party, the most important for which the prosperity or movement ahead of Ukraine is the growth of its economy. [[of 56 pages]] Read it. Nikolai Ivanovich has this book. There are all recommendations for each article.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u122	Mironenko Mikhailo Ivanovich submits the right to a question to Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u123	Thank you. Dear Valentina Costinovich, please don't refer to the attacks of the BUT factions, they've long since lost the status of Ukrainian national deputies. They are acting as a department of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, following up on the decisions of the Pecher Court. With the prospect of building the Zaporozhye Bridges, which are of national strategic importance, I understand. As long as this hoop company is in power, we're not getting any light. I have a question for you from the point of view of the Ukrainian National Deputy, who represents the industrial region of Zaporozhye, whose territorial community feels both insulted and humiliated by the present central authority, and yet he will say his word to both the working and the sub-cages to which they talk. Please tell 14 billion overpaid taxes and congregations. 17 billion unpaid value added tax payers, what is the real economic and social sector in the near future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u124	Well, what's that? You know, any economy. What's the point? Here we are talking about a real gross domestic product, which is a comprehensive indicator of regulation. If a facsimile analysis is done, the proportion of industrial production is steadily decreasing, starting in the first quarter of the third quarter. That is, we need to raise the real economy by all means, not through financial services, to inflate this GDP. That's the point. All that is said today, and he asked questions there, they say that without the real sector everything will go down, there will be no real budgeting. That's all I can say.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u125	Dach Boris Davidovich, please ask me a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u126	Please pass the word "Peklushenko."
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u127	Dear Valentin Konstantinovich! I'd like to ask why you took such a small amount of time or if it was given to you here by our secretary. You're not just a controlling body, you're the eyes and ears of the Supreme Council. And we have to use this tool. Unfortunately, you have been very brief and in some of the conclusions you have been contentious. You said a kind of virtual legal field. You know, if it's legal, it can't be virtual. If it's virtual, it's not legal, so call it your names. In this regard, I ask you a question. Do you think it would be useful to set up a parliamentary commission of inquiry on your work to ensure that this issue is discussed in its entirety and not in its second place?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u128	When the State budget is adopted for the current year, in violation of 100 laws of Ukraine and a number of laws. and a number of provisions of the Constitution, this is said to have led to a systematic violation of the law. Why I said there was sequencing today, actual budget sequencing. First, the Cabinet of Ministers adopted a financing system order and then the Ministry of Finance adopted recommendations. As a result, there has been a 15-20 per cent segregated budget for all our articles. The Supreme Council is not responding. Someone has to respond, first and foremost, to the budget committee. The Committee on Budgets did not respond. Well, think about how you can hand-distribute 8.1 billion bracelets without the Supreme Council. Well, it's already been said that we came into the early Middle Ages when the execution took place.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u129	Zinovy Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u130	Please pass the word to Arjevetin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u131	Stanislaw Arzhevtin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u132	Stanislav Arjewitin, group “For Ukraine!” Valentina Konstantinovich, I don't know you personally, but I'm happy to hear your reports. [[I'm right here.]] [[This way, if I may.]] My next questions. Please tell me how your analytic group and you personally appreciate: in the first half of the year, the National Bank bought 28.5 billion dollars of government securities, even though it could channel them through the banking system into the real economy, but it did buy out and today it holds 28.5 billion in balance. Do you not appreciate it? Is this like a direct hidden emission in our country, that's the first question? And the second question, in your report, is that the total and guaranteed government debt today is 219 billion, it's almost almost going to be equal to our budget. Please tell me how dangerous this is for our country.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u133	First of all, this, Stanislav Mihajlovich, you asked how much securities have been bought. You put it right. Today on the eighth, we have no data, the National Bank, Petr Aleksevic will confirm, redeem. He bought 35 billion domestic securities — an OCHA of 35 billion. The idea is that it's a direct show, not an idea, but actually an idea. That's a hundred percent. Now, as far as I'm concerned. about the debt. I, my dear colleagues, will now begin to take offense and speak. The thing is, when they say we can take as much as the United States of America, South Korea and so on and so forth. But they have up to 60 per cent and a higher debt to GDP. But they cannot all understand that these countries are largely indebted to other countries and that their economies are being filled. We can't do these.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u134	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u135	Because, as it's said, I'm way ahead of the rabbit. But the dynamics are threatening. Last year, debt doubled this year. You'll understand, we don't take into account, let's say, NAC Naftogaz Ukraine's debt. Today, we have made a commitment to save NAC Naftogaz Ukraine, and we have accepted a guarantee. What does that mean? That $2 billion had been diverted from NAK Naftogaz Ukraine's debt to government debt. What, you have to sit here and think about what's going to happen to the country? And I want to, and I'm saying it to say it. So you can all get in the way of the situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u136	Humenjuk Oleg Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u137	I'd like to give Karpuk Volodymyr Georgiyovich a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u138	Vladimir Karpuk, MP “For Ukraine!”, “Our Ukraine”. Reverend Valentina Konstantinovich! For two days we've been listening to the government's report on the implementation of the 2008-2009 budget. Why would we listen to this report? To identify problems, to analyze, to identify some strategic problems. At the same time, we see, though noble, only the deputy minister of finance, there are no other government officials. Does this important question not concern you? Will we not really learn from what is being done? First of all, the lesson is that there's a lot of economics in manual management. It's also a one-time purchase, huge volumes. And the manual administration of government programs to finance one or the other problems. I mean, though.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u139	I understand your question. We have all the documents in each of us, so you can understand what we're doing, we're sending them to the government. All of it. We personally send the documents to Julia Vladimirovne. Each document, in any document, without exception, has suggestions on how to get out of this provision. But it is likely that there is no prophet in his homeland. And this is some situation where we are moving away from the real situation, which is, in my view, the most important threat to the country. We need to know what is the real state of the economy, what is the real state of government finances. I am convinced that we are a very rich country. But there's no order.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u140	Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u141	Dear Valentin Konstantinovich, I would like to thank you and for yesterday's more brilliant performances for today. This was indeed a statement by a professional economist, a scientist economist and a real publicist. Thank you very much. You've really rightly pointed out that the Government is doing eyewashing when it's reducing budget revenue by month and then reporting that it's all overrun, it's all good. But it would seem that by the end of the year, there should be mountains of money. I traveled around the different regions and met with the heads of the district councils, where their representatives of the BUT faction are headed, they grab their heads and say, "We don't know how to live this year, because at the end of the year we don't even see the payment of utilities, we don't see the salary, we don't see the end of the budget at the end of the year. There is a question of where the money has happened and what the Government needs to do to ensure that at least people live to the new budget before the new year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u142	Well, starting to list what the government has done is going to take a very long, very long time, and the main wish is to get down on the ground and stop flying. And all the problems that need to be addressed, again, not virtually, but, above all, through a land-based approach to the real situation in all areas of our social and economic life, will then be orderly.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u143	Thank you, Valentin Costinovich. Have a seat, please. The first half of 2009 was completed on the issue of Information for the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the implementation of the State Budget. Here we go to the Council of the National Bank of Ukraine information on the basic principles of monetary policy for 2010. By procedure? What questions, following the Nazbank procedure? Please, if you have any questions, please write them down. Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u144	I beg you to give Chechtovo a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u145	Please, Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u146	Dear Alexander Vladimirović, distinguished colleagues! Indeed, we have heard detailed information on the implementation of this year's budget and the reports, and we have heard questions from the heads of the Court of Auditors. But I think that even if there is no procedural debate on this issue, we probably need to make a decision, because the end of the year is catastrophic with the implementation of the budget and, in particular, I repeat again, in the regions. We need to make a decision and thus force the Government to return to the needs of the regions and allow people in these regions to enter the winter and winter peacefully. We propose that a decision be taken both last time on the 2008 report and on the semi-annual report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u147	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u148	Yury Karmazin Party of Fatherland Defenders, Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense. Ladies and gentlemen, I see that today's issue is planned for us to consider the basic principles of monetary policy for 2010 only by limiting the report of the Board of Directors of the National Bank of Dustenka Peter Alexiyovich. And those who have done what needs to be done to get the heads of the National Bank are not his first deputy here. But I don't think that's fair and I'd like guidance done by those who don't realize that today's currency has dropped twice as much as the dollar, even though the dollar is falling into other currencies. So I fell even more in large numbers. It's so that I don't get in the way of those protecting Stelma and the company. Did Parliament's leadership now invite Mr. Stelmacha, Sapovalov, and the company that led the money unit to destruction? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u149	Zabuc Roman Omelanovic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u150	I give the floor to the People's Deputy Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u151	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Alexander Volodymyrovich, well, I think we should discuss the last question. Yes. And then Simonenko comes out, pours out a bucket of dirt. Provides unreliable information, including the use of stabfond funds. I'm just catching him in the hallway, and I'm like, Valentina Konstantinovich, come back to the hall, I want to ask you a question. And he's running away. He's afraid to go back to the hall. He's afraid to answer questions. So we need to talk about this, because this information that was presented by the Head of the Court of Auditors, it's absolutely unreliable, it's information that's involved, it's talking about problems, but it doesn't indicate the reasons for these problems. If we're talking about the lack of funds to the stabfond, what they're coming for, because the privatization process is blocked, there's 8 billion from privatization. Information about using the government in manual fund mode does not correspond to reality. The Committee on Budgetary Questions shall give appropriate permission. All these things have licenses. So when you pour out a bucket of dirt, you have to.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u152	Finish up, please. Please complete your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u153	The same is true of me, and I support my previous colleague, who has not only Peter Alexiyovich Prashenko here, but Stelmam come, let Shapowalov come, let this whole company come down. Prior to this, Simonenko tells us that the standard of living of citizens has been reduced. What made you fall? Who's got the currency down? Which makes drugs three times more expensive than they are. Let them come and tell, not flee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u154	Hell-bent Alexander Mikolayovich. Hell-bent Alexander Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u155	I absolutely share the views of my colleagues. Tell me what might be more important in the country today than the issue under discussion. Indeed, it is a mockery of Parliament. There is no one here who can answer the question: Why? Why do we put ourselves in this position, a parliament that does not decide anything? That is why I support my colleague Lazko, and this issue must be discussed. It is necessary to call on Timoshenko, her Government as a whole, and by full procedure, to begin to address the issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u156	Landik Vladimir Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u157	I fully support both Carmazin and Paklusenka and Laszko. You can't find this animal's retreat from Peter Alexeevich, who I don't think had anything to do with it, no signature is valid there. And who signed the decision to refinance the banks, where they split 111 billion, who dropped the bracelet. Please, here they are, but don't forget that in this campaign and Prime Minister Yulia Vladimirovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u158	The replica. National MP Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u159	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Our colleagues, including from the Party of Regions, are absolutely right that the issues that we are discussing are extremely important for the country. And right here, in this room, there's got to be the head of the National Bank of Steel, let's invite those commercial banks and their owners that got tens of billions of dollars of refinancing, let them tell us what percentages they gave these tens of billions of dollars, where they found them, where they bought their houses, yachts, planes and everything. Let them come and tell, not bring forth those who cannot answer these questions. Let them come and report, and let them run the National Bank, and run the commercial banks, which instead of giving people their deposits back, they've ripped them apart, they've distributed them to their firms at zero percent. And today the government is forced to pour billions of dollars to save these banks in order to pay back these deposits. And the owners of these banks are also sitting in this room. Let's get them out of here.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u160	Dear colleagues, several suggestions were made from the procedure. The proposal made by the national deputy Lazko that information from the Cabinet of Ministers about the implementation of the State Budget in the middle of the year should be discussed. Since the Rules do not address this issue of discussion of information, the Supreme Council of Ukraine can resolve this issue. I am proposing to the National Deputy Lako on the need to discuss the information of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the implementation of the National Budget of Ukraine in the first half of 2009. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:54:04]] For 215 The decision is not taken. The factions? Please. Region Party – 156, "Club of Timoshenko" – 7, "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" – 24, communists – 27, "Club of Lithuania" – 0, non-fractional – 1. Please turn on Deputies' microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u161	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, you have misformed my proposal. First of all, I offered to discuss information about the head of the Court of Auditors once. Secondly, I proposed a second proposal - to consider the principles of monetary policy for 2010 to call to the Supreme Council the head of the National Bank of Stelmah Vladimir Semenović. These are two of my proposals: to discuss the information of the Court of Auditors on the implementation of the budget in the first half of 2009 and to call on Stelma to discuss the principles of monetary policy for 2010. Thank you. We'll vote for that.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u162	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that we don't have a day-to-day question about the information of the Court of Auditors, and we are considering with you, in accordance with the Budget Code, the information of the Cabinet of Ministers, which was part of the information of the Court of Auditors. So I can't put your proposal to the vote in the way you put it. As far as the next question is concerned, this is already a matter of information to the National Bank Board. I'm going to put these proposals to the vote right now. Dear colleagues, the national MPs insist that this proposal, on the discussion of information, has been heard in many other deputies, such as Deputy Pecklusenko, and insist on returning to this vote. Please, we've already done the procedure. I will now complete the vote on the proposals that have come. If there's any more offers, we'll go back to them. Now, please insist on the national MPs who made the same proposals. I am voting on the proposal to return to the vote on the discussion of information by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:56:55]] For 225 The decision is not taken. Thus, there will be no discussion. The next proposal, which was made by the national deputy Chechtev, was for the Supreme Council of Ukraine to take a decision on the basis of its review of information. Nor does the regulation provide for the adoption of any decisions that come out of information. Neither the national MPs nor the government have submitted projects. The next proposal, which was made, regarding the invitation of the head of the National Bank of Stelmah Volodymir Semenović, I think that this question will be answered by Vladimir Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u163	Dear colleagues, we've come to the conclusion that the Board of National Banks provides information on monetary policy. This is the question we were considering. The proposal to hold a special meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, with the participation of the President, the Prime Minister, the leaders of the central institutions, including the National Bank, is now under review in the Regulatory Committee in order for us to listen separately to the assessment, the analysis of monetary processes in the currency market. So if the Supreme Council of Ukraine supports that proposal, we will discuss it. We followed the Code of Budgets exclusively and the Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, no more. [[B in m in s a l in]] Now, dear fellows. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, let's do it this way. Nikolai Janovich, please, head of the profile committee, let's make a proposal now, let's figure it out. And then I'll let you know about the Conciliation Council. [[B in m in s a l in]] All of them are who? I suggested you don't accept. Mikoli Janovich Azarov’s microphone
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u164	Vladimir Mikhailovich, this is where the proposal came in. Which had not been precisely formulated and had therefore not been voted on. Given the crucial importance of information on the implementation of the 2009 State budget, a clear procedural decision should be taken after hearing the information and the conclusion of the discussion by taking a decision on that information. That's why I'm asking you to put it this way. And I think all our colleagues will support us in that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u165	That way we can vote on the draft decision. Dear colleagues, the Rules do not provide for discussion of information. This proposal has already been put to the vote. The Supreme Council of Ukraine did not support it. For that. To withdraw any suggestions, I'm going to put a return motion on the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, one minute. Well, I'd like to say again, dear colleagues, to say I came from the Conciliation Council, I can't catch the thread of your conversation. So please, Alexander Volodymyrovich, finish your consideration of this question, that's all.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u166	Please calm down! Dear colleagues, the proposal for a discussion was made by several Ukrainian national deputies. She was put to the vote and found no support. There was an offer to return to this vote. 225 Ukrainian national deputies supported this proposal, no decision taken. [[B in m in s a l in]] A proposal is now being made that after discussion a decision should also be taken on the basis of the discussion. This proposal was also made during the consideration of proposals made by the deputies regarding the procedure for consideration of the matter. So all the proposals that were made were put to the vote on the matter of reviewing the information of the Cabinet of Ministers. Other proposals, which were made, relate to the following question, the issue of information to the Council of the National Bank of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u167	Ladies and gentlemen, since the discussion is over, all discussions are over, I ask you to listen before taking a break, to hear about the meetings of the Conciliation Board. Let's just calm down and not get carried away by our passions. Dear colleagues, at the request of two factions -- the BUT factions and the "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" factions -- there was a meeting of the Conciliation Council. At the Conciliation Council, one question was raised: To allow the Supreme Council of Ukraine to consider the issue of the release and appointment of members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, as well as the appointment of directors of the Antimonopoly Committee and the head of the State Committee on Television and Radio. This question is scheduled for Thursday. Instead, according to the proposal that was discussed at the Conciliation Council at the request of two factions, it is proposed to consider these issues tomorrow, at 10 a.m. in such a sequence: if they are introduced, and it has been claimed that proposals have already been prepared and have been made for secret voting for release and for appointment. If such a project is proposed, the Supreme Council of Ukraine will consider it. They agreed. What we're going to be looking at is the order of the coming of the documents. First of all, there will be a review of the issue of liberation according to the initiatives that will take place at the time of consideration of this issue, on the release of members of the Cabinet of Ministers. The vote should take place in person at each candidate. The way in which the Supreme Council of Ukraine is determined. After that, the appointment of members of the Cabinet of Ministers in the following sequence: a proposal from the President of Ukraine regarding those positions that are the prerogative of the President of Ukraine, then the offer of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. After that, consideration of issues concerning the central executive authorities, such as: State Committee on Television, Radio and the Antimonopoly Committee. Moreover, such an offer was offered. That the Cabinet of Ministers is running for office of two vice-premiers. I can remind you of them. This is Mikhailo Zgurowsky, Yuri Lubonenko. The first is the Rector of the University of Politechnics, a Kiev political scientist. The second is the mayor of the Horn of Curve. Next. Minister of Finance, Jaroshenko, candidature. And the Minister of Transport and Communications is Vasadze Tariel, our colleague. If this decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for four of these persons is not supported, then the Supreme Council of Ukraine will vote separately. And one more moment. If questions arise before any candidate or President, whatever you call it, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has the right to ask and answer these questions. That's the offer. I would ask, fellow honourable colleagues, that we understand that we have found compromise to some extent by voting and making decisions, obviously not for our compromise, but for people, although it does raise objections to national social standards, let us continue to do our utmost not to ruin Parliament's work. And this time that's left is an opportunity for a victory to agree on party positions on how to treat those candidates, as well as those who are offered an assignment, and those who are offered an exemption. The point is that the Supreme Council of Ukraine has accepted the proposal to shorten this issue to seven days, so on Tuesday, if I'm not mistaken it will be October 20th, this issue will be considered first, and I'm convinced that the Supreme Council will put a dot in place by making the relevant decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues! I informed you of the outcome of the Conciliation Council meeting. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 40 minutes. After the break, we will review the information of the Board of the National Bank of Ukraine. [[on the basic principles of monetary policy for 2010]]
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u168	People's deputies are invited to take up their jobs. Dear colleagues, we continue our work. The Council of the National Bank of Ukraine is being reviewed on the main principles of monetary policy for 2010. Reported the head of the Board of the National Bank of Poshenko, Petr Aleksiyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u169	Mr. Chairman! Dear colleagues! The development of the basic principles of monetary policy for the 10th year was carried out under unprecedented conditions. Ukraine has never experienced a crisis like that in its ninth year. And we can certainly argue today that the measures we need to take about. The response to monetary policy must also be unprecedented. The whole world's only recipe for an exit and the most effective anti-crisis action was monetary action. The size of the credit issue of the central banks, the Federal Reserve System of the European Central Bank, the Bank of England were, in fact, unprecedented. And in all the world's textbooks, the most effective way out of the crisis is to provide the economy, the financial system of the state with money. Of course, worldwide today we see some recovery in the economic situation: very cheap loans. In most major countries of the world, the central bank base rate is less than 1 percent: 0.25, 0.5 is certainly an extremely stimulating factor in the economy. Even in these circumstances, in terms of cheap money and overcrowding of money channels, lending to the world’s economy has not been restored. It turns out there's a paradox. What does this have to do with anything? Because the crisis was actually a crisis of trust. Despite the availability of money, total redesign of the risk system does not allow manufacturers to be credited. And I'm convinced that the main task of monetary policy that we have before us is to restore lending to the economy, to create conditions, to create a risk system where the loans, the funds that are in the banks' accounts have to go to the economy. Indeed, banks have also experienced one of the most difficult trials. The total damage to the banking system in the current year alone is well above 20 billion dollars. Underneath this damage. What are they made of? In times of crisis, economies do not return economic operators, nor do they recover the costs of a person who had easy access to credit resources. In these circumstances, the National Bank Council would like to take this opportunity to thank the members of the National Deputies Council of Ukraine for their completely honest conduct, for the absolutely professional decisions made by the National Bank Council with professional approaches, certainly unpolitiated, which have managed to make these decisions through the Bank Board. In these circumstances, the absolute priority of monetary policy, as defined by the National Bank Board, is to ensure the stability of the banking system as a short-term priority that we have huge risks that have unfortunately been eliminated in Ukraine. So in most countries of the world, the main risk for banking systems, when they wrote down trillions of damage, was in the first quarter of this year. Unfortunately, the situation in Ukraine’s banking system is very different. Banking legislation, the position of regulator, the position of legislation was built in such a way that banks carried on possible damage for the future period. All credits, instead of demonstrating real non-returns, forming reserves under them and closing those risks, have been restructured, transferred to the left hand side of the loan, and therefore there is no risk tip in the banking system today. And that's why, of course, the key positions we have to go out with are two: the first position is a clear adjustment of access to the central bank's resources by banks; the second position is the right, sobering, smart and professional budgetary policy, because the second most effective step in all the countries of the world is an objective, honest budgetary policy that will be aimed at reducing spending. The central function of the National Bank is, of course, to ensure the purchasing power of the national currency in terms of price stability. We can say that today, including thanks to a very hard monetary policy that is currently being implemented by the National Bank, we have managed to achieve a significant slowdown in inflation. Of course, it's a powerful demonstration, a bright, more accurate, the result of any crisis policy, because in a crisis, the economy always goes to deflation or zero inflation. And the last three months, you know, two months in Ukraine were deflations, yesterday published September inflation figures, inflation is 0.8 percent, and we can say that inflation will be substantially slowed down. But what is the relationship between inflation and lending rates? We at the National Bank Board have decided to recommend to the government a substantial reduction in the account rate and to bring the refinancing rate closer to the account. We think today the economy of the state, with inflation of 10-12 percent, has a lending rate of 25 percent, is just a destructive force that can't solve the question of the recovery of the national economy. What should be our primary priority? Creating the conditions for a national economy to be restored. In what way should this be accomplished? Certainly, now the commercial banks of Ukraine are receiving huge amounts of loans. But I would like to point out that when an industrial enterprise -- believe me, I know that -- there's no trade, there's no good anti-crisis management if they just give them loans and loans, and there's only going to be an increase in the amount of non-refundable loans to the economy. Therefore, credit is primarily needed for the final consumer. We need to re-establish the position of access to credit for the people of Ukraine, with the priority of purchasing Ukrainian production for these credit resources. We have to provide, and you see that some movement in this direction is already going, when we've reduced the National Bank's account rate, today it's 10.25 percent of the year-olds, and this process doesn't end because we think there's a good reason to lower the interest further. An account rate should be the rate of refinancing, that is, the basic, basic rate at which commercial banks should have access to these resources. Today, it is 16 percent. We're convinced that the difference between the account rate and the refinancing rate can't be more than one or two percent. Banks should be within 12 percent, i.e. positive for inflation, of getting a refund. What is involved in the refinancing? The primary concern is that banks had a huge outflow of resources, both by removing deposits by legal and natural persons and by defaulting on loans that would have to be compensated to ensure the stability of the banking system. We're clearly monitoring, and today we can say that at last this process, we've achieved this, it's become much more transparent. I'm personally in favour of a position so that the refinance position, the bank's recourse at the expense of the central bank, should be transparent. That's what we have to do. You don't have to make a commercial or bank secret out of it. Transparency, clear criteria, increase the trust of both individuals, both the population and legal persons in any banking policy. As far as basics are concerned, we believe that the key risk remaining in Ukraine is exchange risk. In the face of a crisis, no country in the world publishes exchange forecasts, because the huge dependence on this has a state of economics, a state of pay and a trade balance, an environment of external markets. And you know that today Ukraine's exports depend largely on the state, especially in the black metal market, in the agro-industrial market. But to finish, I'm so sure I'm done.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u170	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u171	But in closing, I can say that we have today, in a professional literate economic and monetary policy, a condition for us to get out of the crisis in the tenth year. External trade conditions for basic Ukrainian exports are improving, payments in the tenth year of our external debt, which have the status of a state or a guaranteed state, are relatively low. That's a little over $2 billion, compared to the current year, that's a very serious decline. The restructuring of commercial loans is now successful, reaching 76 percent by the current year. And that means that in a professional monetary, financial, budgetary policy, we can have a forward 10-11 to demonstrate an effective anti-crisis scenario. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u172	Thank you, Peter Alexiovich. Please sign up for questions. The sand, Ivan Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u173	Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Reverend Peter Alekseiovich, I have two questions. The first question is about the loans we got from the International Monetary Fund and the speculations that are now going on in the press and so on as they are being used. I would like to ask you how the heads of the National Bank Board are: “What real information have we received today, how have they been distributed, and how has this helped the banking system?” And the second question about systemic banks. Recently, the government, the Ministry of Finance, has published information that will save Kruprombank and Nadra Bank. As far as we know, the question of the transfer of "Rodowice" has been almost resolved by the present day after the "Ukrprombank". And what is the situation today with Nadra Bank, because Nadra Bank is one of the systems banks? And usually, when I come to the area, I'm asked questions, even the heads of the syllabus, who at the time put their deposits, their extra funds, in the bank's accounts, and they're always waiting for information, there was hope, but.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u174	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u175	Thank you very much, Ivan Vasilovich, for the professional question. The first answer is regarding the International Monetary Fund’s loans. The total amount of Ukraine's gold reserves, which, including the Bank's Board's initiative, has been tested repeatedly by two of the most authoritative audit companies, is highly efficient and is beyond any threat, totalling 28 billion today, 177 million at the last date, 28 billion. Of these 28 billion 10.2 billion is the cost of the International Monetary Fund. They are, if you take an account position, none of the funds of the International Monetary Fund are spent, it's in the state's gold reserves today. What are they for? Can they be taken and paid interest? Because today, under a crisis of trust, access to other sources of funding for the State of Ukraine is significantly complicated. I want to remind you that the gold reserves of the state are not only about ensuring the stability of the course, but also about providing critical needs.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u176	Complete your answer, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u177	ensuring the needs of critical imports, including the most urgent products, are energy-borne, these are medicines, these are other positions on which the state's vitality depends. So cooperation with the International Monetary Fund is of the utmost importance, the money of the International Monetary Fund is now located and accounted for in the gold reserves of the state, and we have to pursue policies that will support the position of balanced foreign trade, over-export over-importing and thus provide basic exchange forecasts. Briefly about the bank “Nadra”. I have no doubt that such a system bank as “Nadra” needs careful professional work in order to be recapitalised. Both the government, and the position of the International Monetary Fund, and the separate decision of the National Bank regarding the Nadra Bank, have opened the way for the bank “Nadra” to be recapitalized, public funds have entered, and this will greatly restore people's confidence in the banking system, Ukraine's financial system as a whole. I am convinced that today this depends on how the Nadra bank's creditors are negotiated to restructure their debt, so that the public funds from the state budget are not immediately cleared by the poor investors who in this way carry out risky policies. And I am convinced that the Nadra Bank can and should be recapitalized by protecting the investor's funds that have been entrusted to this system bank to date and then dealing separately with those that have led to such a pitiful financial situation. But this is going to be a question other than the National Bank, and there's going to be law enforcement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u178	Popov Alexander Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u179	Petr Aleksevic, well, everyone knows that a condition is very important for a stable heating season in the country – it is the stable work of the national stockholder Naftegaz Ukraine. As far as I know, during the last heating season, the National Bank assisted the company in solving financial and economic problems. What kind of help is that, and will it be possible this year? Because, you know, this company's condition is very difficult today. Will it be able to meet such important challenges as the provision of energy by housing and utility enterprises?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u180	Thank you so much for asking. My strong belief that the issue of the stable work of NAK “Naftogaz Ukraine” is not a question of the National Bank. This is a question of a balanced budget, an honest budget of NAK Naftogaz Ukraine. Today, there are very serious features of the company’s operation. What are they all about? If gas was previously purchased at the expense of commercial structures and gas was gradually sold from the underground NAC “Naftogaz Ukraine”, all purchases were made today at the expense of the “Naftogaz Ukraine” itself. And in this case, the role of the National Bank was: that we are recapitalising, or recapitalizing, or that we are monetaryizing government securities so that the banking system of Ukraine, and above all that concerns two state banks, first of all Savings, would have the opportunity for money to support the issuance of loans to NAKU “Naftogaz Ukraine”. But everything has its limits. And when the risk of these loans is questioned or the extent of these loans.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u181	Complete your answer, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u182	The extent of these savings loans is extremely large, the National Bank is certainly large. This funding is very cautious. I am convinced that the stable functioning of the nation's main energy company has two components: first, this is a balanced balance sheet of this enterprise, which is not yet balanced and needs separate legislative and government decisions; and second, this is for a time – during financial disruptions – support at the expense of the banking system. The banking system has already done its job – and has credited as much as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u183	Landik Vladimir Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u184	Good afternoon. After all, I will tell you about Vladimir Ivanovich – Valentin Ivanovich. So, Peter Alexiovich, your honor, I have this question. Well, first of all. In your report, you actually said, in other countries, the interest rate in banks is 0.2-0.5 per cent. And today we have 25 in the Prominnvestbank. There's an order from Putin to buy Ukraine. They don't. They do. And they're doing it all to buy Ukraine. I have a question first. What will the National Bank do in this case? That's the first question. And second question, please. You said our priority was to create conditions for the national economy. In the 2010 budget prepared, Julia Vladimirovna sets 7.5. We remember 2008 when it pushed the National Bank in March – 4 and a half. So are we going to stop our production or are we going to do something? Two questions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u185	Thank you very much, Valentin Ivanovich. I fully agree with you, with the indignation that today's producer rate is 25 percent and above in the national currency. As a person who also has a direct bearing on production, I realize that no branch of today, except maybe drug trafficking, or some illegal operation there, is capable of securing such a stake. And we're running the banking system with such a high stake rate, and we're driving the economy to the bottom, to the bottom of nowhere. So the National Bank Board can't stay out of this process, and despite some discussions that have taken place with, with government, and with international financial organizations, we've insisted that, in terms of inflation reduction, we lower the lending rate, that's the key position. So far it's only been shown at the account rate. I'm sure we had a separate board meeting on this. I'm going to reconvene the council by October 20th, where we are being briefed on the implementation of our recommendations for lowering the rate of refinancing and creating transparent conditions for banks to allow these resources. And when I said we didn't have anyone to borrow yet, I wanted to.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u186	Finish up, please. It's easier to answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u187	I would like to support Catherine Timofievna Vashtuk, who spoke of lending the village. The village is an agrarian complex, it's the only complex that's actually not in crisis. And as of today, the village's lending is relatively low-cost, extremely secure, taking into account the export orientation of our agrarian complex by action. Of course, we'll also set sectoral priorities for lending. As for the stakes of 7.5 percent, 7.5 dollars per dollar, I emphasize that in all countries of the world, this is only an computational figure. By no means does this mean that the government or anyone else is obliged to keep the course 7.5. There is no condition or authority to do so. At the same time, stimulation. And that's what's about stimulating the economy that export growth, the competitive product that we're offering in the external markets, is increasing the currency coming. And I can show it to you. September months and early October. Notice that the National Bank has been failing to intervene for the last three weeks. At the same time, hard monetary policy, tough regulatory measures, which limited the possibility of speculation and playing against national currency, have allowed us to talk today about the fact that the exchange rate on the completely free interbank market has been reduced by more than four percent. This means that when it comes to professional politics with clearly defined priorities, it yields an appropriate result. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u188	Lukyanov Vladislav Valentinović, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u189	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, I ask you to pass the word to Scudar Grigori Markovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u190	Please, Gregory Markovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u191	Dear Peter Aleksevich! You said today we have a 25 percent loan rate in the country. You know the volume of industrial production in Ukraine. The decline in industrial production was the lowest. The most profound: minus 30 per cent compared to last year. And the main reason is that we have non-competitive production. Our enterprises are understaffed. Technical rearmament operations were not required. For example, Russia is now compensating two thirds of the loan rate for those enterprises that are borrowing development loans. What ideas does the National Bank have to help the industry lend their development, to carry out a technology re-arrangement to us.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u192	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u193	So that we don't get caught up in imports, so that we can have competitive enterprises and developed industries. With those credit rates, no one but the merchants will take credit, and neither the economy nor industry will develop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u194	Thank you very much, George Markovich, Your Honor. I can tell you that technology, the proposal for interest rate budget compensation was introduced in Ukraine for the first time within the 2000 budget, has proved to be extremely effective. Because the compensation for the bracelet allows about 10 extra dollars to be added to the field. 10 years ago, you're absolutely right. Today we can argue that the issue of loan compensation is a matter of the budget, not a question of the National Bank. I fully endorse and agree with the extraordinary effectiveness of such measures. And when we're saying that today, from going to budgeting for some social programs, I'm convinced that the priority for today is to re-establish the economy and concentrate those small budgetary resources on the priorities that the state will prioritise. From my point of view, machine-building should be a priority for Ukraine, because the level of collapse in machine-building, you know, it's no worse than me.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u195	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u196	It's twice the number you've given. But there's a third position. I can give you a number right now. At the beginning of the crisis, at the end of 2008, the balance of foreign currency in Ukraine’s commercial banks, the so-called “Nostro” accounts, was less than $2 billion, that is, the money that banks keep. Today, this figure exceeds $5 billion. Imagine a crisis that seems to have increased more than 2.5 times in foreign currency. Why? Because banks today do not have the ability to lend, including in currency, reliable lenders. Our ideas lie in the next. First of all, I would like all of our loans to be in the national currency, and this is the measure of the security of the financial state, and we all have to be extremely responsible about it, because back in the 7th year, when these proposals were coming from me, we said that we were blocking Ukraine from all over the world. The practice has shown that the issue of financial security is relevant. Second position. That the budget is an extremely effective anti-crisis measure. And you know that. When discussing the budget, your proposal will necessarily go into budget spending, for in fact, the cost of the economy in terms of jobs and taxes will be balanced by those modest expenses. Third position. You and I in the Supreme Council have to decide, together with the government, how to concentrate those resources and where they were directed. And the fourth one, the main one. The crisis can only be tackled together when there is a political divide all anti - crisis measures are certainly ineffective. Thank you, Mr. Jaroslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u197	Blackmore. Petr Alekseevich! I have two questions: private and common. The private issue concerns my hometown of Yalta, where the students of the local institution paid for their education at Inprombank, the Bank of Kharkovsky, which allocated the funds to them, thus creating a social conflict. How can you relate to that? Because Nazibank is trying to translate it all into a commercial, allegedly conflict. And from that point on. In America, 77 banks closed in the first half of the year. We haven't closed any, how do you estimate this situation?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u198	Thank you so much for asking. I recorded the bank situation. Unfortunately, I can't tell you about a particular commercial bank, but with your permission, I will definitely figure it out and find a way to tell you how the situation is resolved. If the bank does not make payments within two weeks, the National Bank is obliged to establish a temporary administration there. Temporary administration, its order of action is regulated by law and the prioritization of financing educational measures is also a matter of course. I mean, with your permission, we'll figure it out. And thank you so much for the last question. The most effective form of anti-crisis policy in the banking sector is the form where clearly defined criteria for the distribution of banks into different groups. Group one is a reliable bank, a system that today has temporary difficulties. For these banks, reliable, systemic, state-owned banks must have extremely easy access to government resources to cover temporary refinancing gaps. Other banks that are driven by inefficient management policies.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u199	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u200	worse financial situation, but they're systemic, they're based on one sector or another, or the region, they're going to have to be recapitalized quickly. Quickly – this means that for a month or two there are established other managers, state funds and the stability of the functioning of this banking institution. But somehow we're constantly forgetting the third group -- banks that are easier for the financial system today to eliminate so that they don't poison their entire banking system, compensate the Fund for guaranteeing investors' investments and not compensate shareholders' costs because they're guilty, they're in charge, they're in charge, because the bank is brought to this situation. So the process of liquidating the bank has to be the same fast to keep them from poisoning the banking system. Regrettably, this is a matter for both the regulator and the legislator, or for them to decide over the month. In the United States, the example you set, by the way, as in Russia, is solved over the month. I would like to be sure that we take this to arms.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u201	The national deputy Gordijenko is referring the right to the question of Alexandrovsky. Please, Alla Alexandrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u202	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Peter Alexievich, I have a few questions for you. The first, of course, is the idea of lending the final consumer of our Ukrainian goods, of course, right, we see what Germany is doing today. But, you know, there's not a stable salary, there's no sure that there's gonna be work. In these circumstances, therefore, this mechanism is the first to be expected. Second. We have a very negative response to the moratorium on deposit returns. We've got trouble banks. These problem banks have systems that are supported by Nazbank, and there are those that do not belong to systems, but in these banks — and in others — are frozen by means of enterprises, state-owned enterprises, and, among other things, local authorities. This money is still "independent" and it is not clear whether or not to return and so on. What's going on? And the last. The money unit in Ukraine is a bracelet. The entry into the territory of Ukraine of foreign currency is prohibited. But there is a paradox to that.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u203	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u204	However, it is a strange moment when we have loans in foreign currency. And actually, it caused a huge collapse, including the value of that currency in Ukraine. Here are three questions, please explain.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u205	Thank you very much. First question. It's about lending to the final consumer. It's the risk of banks to whom and which to lend. If you earn and unfortunately have a small salary, you have a chance to get a small loan, but you have to have that opportunity. Because if you buy Ukrainian goods, you start production, you increase the number of jobs, and so by increasing domestic demand, you're reviving the economy. And this circle has to be run just to stimulate demand. You're absolutely right. These are temporary measures. Germany has already stopped lending, such as obtaining compensation for the purchase of cars. The United States, too. But they did so when the automobile industry demonstrated the first signs of the recovery. When they started it. Unfortunately, in our position, we still have very low recovery rates. Even the other way around is the drop in credit. About the moratorium. The Board of the National Bank has made three decisions on the inadmissibility of applying a moratorium on the payment of deposits. That's it. I assure you, there is no place in the world.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u206	Peter Alexiovich, please be more concise.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u207	when the regulator restricts the issuance of a moratorium. So we made a proposal to the government, the government officially overturned any moratorium on the payment of deposits. On today's reference day, any commercial bank on what seems to be the regulatory limits of the National Bank on the payment of bills is wrong, non-legal, unfair and there is no basis for that. Third position on the bracelet. I absolutely share my position, you've heard my opinion on financial security. Today, the National Bank is preparing certain restrictions on monetary lending at least for those who do not have sources of currency. Because it just increases the risks of the banks that do these operations. And that's why if the banks don't understand it themselves, the regulator will regulate it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u208	Dutch Boris Davidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u209	Please pass the word "Peklushenko."
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u210	Hell-bent Alexander Mikolayovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u211	Peter Alexievich, you are a well-known master of words, and I think that if there were a MP in the hall today, he wouldn't have left a stone on the stone from your information. And you understand that very well. So to put it this way, I'd like some content. Your depositors, our voters, are curious when the collapse of the bracelet is over. Where did it start, where did it end? Your investors, our voters, are interested in specific answers to questions. In what bank, and under what conditions is it possible to borrow a person today? In what bank, and under what conditions can a farmer, a small business, take credit? Please respond on the merits. Second. Julia Vladimirovna personally said that the National Bank was to blame for the collapse of the bracelets. You know it's a disaster. That's a public crime charge. Do you agree with this sentence or are you going to sue her?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u212	Well, we know each other very well. And I try to answer honestly, and I've never gone away from honest answers. As far as the sentence is concerned, luckily, we don't know about the sentence yet, but the collapse of the national monetary unit, if I say this for the first time -- if you're interested in my opinion, expressed by the fact that we've had a six-year stable course of ambiguous inflation today. This means that we ate unearned. The whole country. The whole country, I emphasize that. And if we want to anoint our electorate's lips with honey and say that there's some unprofessional decision on this. No, it's not. Because when imports were above 7 billion in the seventh year, imports were above 15 billion in the eighth year, it was a sign that we were living at no cost and it couldn't have ended in any other way. And to whom should we blame today, this is a political issue, and I would ask that you release me from the distribution of political ratings.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u213	Peter Alexiyovich, please briefly answer the last question.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u214	The deputy head of government, I can tell you, well, the list of banks that have huge leftovers of money in their accounts are able to borrow both in dollar and in bracelet. So for today's position to give credit, the bank, because it's responsible for the costs of the investors, has to be sure that this loan is going to be returned. So in a crisis, the left-hand side of the borrowers is very important. No, not just a mortgage, a mortgage, because then you have to sell it to someone, and no one's buying it anymore, in order to give credit, you have to be convinced that this product that's going to be made at the expense of this loan is going to have its own consumer and the business is going to work. But if, by credit, a bankrupt enterprise tries to get out of a situation, we are only deepening the problem. And I'd like to have a professional conversation with you. I assure you that today a reliable lender who has an efficient business will have a loan, and at which rate, we have discussed this with Mr. Skudar, because today.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u215	Sushenko Alexander Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u216	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, please give my word to my colleague Romano Omelanovic Zabzaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u217	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u218	Peter Alexiyovich, I do have a question for you, and it goes in the context of the previous question. As the Council of the National Bank has responded to repeated appeals and decisions by both the government and the Supreme Council, by the way, Ukraine on the inadequacy of Mr. Stelmach's position, as well as on the recent scandalous facts regarding the cosmic wages of the National Bank's management and, in other words, the inefficient use of colossal funds provided by the World Bank to support Ukraine's banking system, including the refinancing of so-called nearby or troubled banks.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u219	In accordance with the 19th article of the Constitution, the Honourable Romane Omelanovic, the Council of the National Bank, acts only within the limits of its powers, under the authority of the Council of the National Bank, this is separately recorded in the Constitution, and the law does not include an assessment of the activities of the head of the National Bank. This is the competence of the President and the Supreme Council. I think it's the right thing to do, because today's day to clean up power is to lower the efficiency of management. It's about pay. The Board of the National Bank does not set wages for individual officials. Any official of the National Bank. The Board of the National Bank, by its decisions, can or will not approve the proposals that have come to us. We can't change who. On September 15, 2008, we received proposals for the bank’s assets for 2009. The payroll fund was increased only by the inflation forecast. We've confirmed these changes. When the crisis began.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u220	Complete the answer, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u221	When the crisis started at my initiative, the members of the National Bank Board, who are present in this room, can confirm this, we initiated the issue of a reduction in the payroll fund in violation of the procedure. It was in December. The decision was made in January, it was up to any decision of the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers. We thought that anti-crisis measures should apply to everyone. We've made a proposal for a 15 percent reduction. We agreed on an 8 percent reduction. What were they forced to accept? Because it was decided to add additional staffing units to the Banking Authority just in case of crisis to make the regulator's control of commercial banks more rigid. This proposal was supported by the government, and changes in the funds were made. No way of influencing the specific salary of any official of the Board of National Bank has or should not have. At the same time, we've now asked about the average wage at the National Bank. We get the answer that the average wage, the total amount of payments in the National Bank is slightly higher than 6,000 dollars per month. I can assure you that despite the fact that it seems to be a large salary, the average wage in commercial banks is higher. And a well-trained specialist of the National Bank with hands will be required in any commercial bank. Clearly, then, this question needs to be resolved. At the next meeting, we will consider information on the use of the Wages Fund and we will be pleased to inform the Supreme Council. But the Council of the National Bank takes a fundamental position on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u222	People’s MP Lazko refers the right to a question to the national MP Pauluszko. The national deputy Lazko came to me and asked me to pass the question to the national deputy Pavlovski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u223	Thank you. Dear Peter Alexiovich, I am being approached. I want to ask you a specific question. I'm being approached by Krakrprombank's investors, thousands of people. Would you like to know what the situation is now at the Krusty Bank? Do you make the final decision that the transfer of deposits, assets, to Rhodewood Bank? And the second question. Will the National Bank decide to ban monetary lending? And I want to ask about Stella. After all, his salary is known to be almost 140,000 dollars and Mr. Shapowalov is no less. It doesn't somehow match the general trends in the state. We should if we were to pull our belts, including Mr. Stelmach, perhaps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u224	Thank you so much for asking. As for Stelmach and Shapowalov, I have answered and agree that the salary of the highest officials, including the head of the National Bank, should be substantially reduced. As head of the Board of the National Bank of Salaries, I don't get paid or work on social grounds. As far as monetary lending is concerned, I've already said that at least if, for example, a powerful manufacturer wants to get a currency loan for the purchase of imported equipment, install and release export-oriented products, I'm convinced that this currency credit is not to be banned. If we're talking about a ban on monetary credit for a person who doesn't have currency in his budget, it's definitely a sharp exchange rate movement that drives him into a debt bond. This is the position of the National Bank that these loans should be limited. So far, the National Bank has made a huge reserve for these kinds of loans, and we've been informed on the board that the Foreign Exchange Ban Regulation for these types of borrowers has been prepared.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u225	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u226	One last question about "The Crookrombank." The National Bank has agreed on all necessary procedures for the transfer of assets and liabilities to the National Family Bank. I personally support that position. I believe that it was impossible to capitalise on the “Ukraprombank” in this way, inefficient use of state funds. And to transfer investors in order to protect them, there is a position in the National Family Bank that needs to be taken immediately. As far as I know, all procedural, normative decisions for this process and the government and the National Bank have been taken. Only technical work remained.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u227	Tomenko Mikola Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u228	Peter Alexiyovich, I wanted to make it clear, because I was also officially addressing you on this sensitive subject. I'll inform you that the Supreme Council of March 3 made a decision where we determined the algorithm for wage work. And there's our clear position on the direction of Nazbank and it's not about the employees of Nazbank. [[By the way, yesterday we confirmed this vote on the basis of another ruling.]] It is unfair and wrong for those working on simple terms to suffer. But you said that Nazbank's leadership told you that on average and so on, I would ask you to really intervene to get a specific answer from specific people because it was disturbing? Nazbank's head is silent, and the first deputy, he was asked, Mr. Shapovalov said that, well, he doesn't even know who's paying him. He does, he gets the money, but he doesn't know how much they pay. Well, if the first deputy of Nazbank's head doesn't know who's paying him his salary, what does he know about Ukraine's financial system, and what's going on in Nazbank? So I would ask you to officially give us, how did it happen, who counted and whether the leaders of Nazbank are going to comply with the Supreme Council's decision?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u229	The decisions taken within the framework of its competence by the Ukrainian Parliament are binding, and we will certainly be guided by the Supreme Council’s decision. We also asked for guidance, we received an answer that, according to the Information Act of Ukraine, according to the Constitutional Court's decision, we have information about the salary of an individual official, not the salary, by the way, but the amount of income, because the salary paid by the head of the National Bank is 13,000. 800 dollars a month, and then we're going to add up, and these numbers, we didn't get that information. At the next board meeting, at the request of the three members of the Board, I put the matter in order of the day. And your honorary colleagues, Vladimir Mihajlovich, immediately after we consider this issue at the council meeting, we will inform you, because I have your letter, and the entire Supreme Council as a result of our consideration of this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u230	Thank you, Peter Alexiovich. Have a seat, please. What, are there any suggestions? Please sign in by procedure. Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u231	May I have the floor to Michael Chechtev?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u232	Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u233	Dear Alexander Vladimirović, distinguished colleagues! We are in the process of reviewing the main financial document, the draft budget for 2010. In order for us to discuss it professionally and accept it later, we may need to understand, understand in detail, fundamentally, what is being done in the banking system. And for the first time, we have the opportunity to hear professional answers, and politically unengaged, by Petr Alekseevich. There is therefore a proposal to extend, and to allow more people to ask questions, so that we can really determine where we are in the credit, financial and monetary terms so that, I repeat, we can professionally consider the draft budget for 2010. Please extend the answers to the questions for 15 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u234	Pavlovsky’s national deputy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u235	I'd like you to hand it over to the People's Deputy, Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u236	Liszko Oleg Valeriyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u237	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. The information provided by Nazbank’s head, Peter Dustenk, is extremely interesting, very professional. But one thing is surprising: when we have such professional, responsible representatives in the National Bank, the National Bank does not perform its primary function, as provided for in Article 99 of the Constitution, is to preserve the stability of the national monetary unit. And I think today's speech by Peter Alexiyovich is going to bring the whole Parliament back to the debate on changing the leadership of the National Bank. We see that the Nitzbank Council has healthy ideas, proposals that will allow for the stabilization of the national currency, but either because of the lack of relations with Nazbank's leadership, or for some other reason, but the National Bank does not perform its function, the bracelet continues to weaken.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u238	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u239	The bracelet continues to weaken. And, as Mikhailo Chechetov rightly said, this has an enormous impact on the implementation of both the country's budget and today's and future years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u240	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u241	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that, really, professionally, the head of the National Bank Council has now spoken, but the issues that exist now as to what kind of monetary policy will be implemented are largely dependent on the non-compliance with the fundamental rights of citizens, the rights of property guaranteed by the Constitution, the National Bank and commercial banks, being severely trampled. Therefore, we were not offered a solution today and could not be offered because Mr. Stelmach, Mr. Shapowalov, was to report. And he was to report to President Viktor Yushchenko: why is he holding them? So we need to ask the question more broadly and ask questions about how the real economy and creation can be filled with loans.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u242	Lukyanov Vladislav Valentinović.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u243	Vladislav Lukyanov, Party of Regions Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, I think we should continue to ask a partial question, because the answerer used more time to answer the questions and some of the deputies failed to ask questions. That's the first offer. The second proposal, taking into account the importance of this issue – the National Bank report – would like us to also be able to give the floor to experts from the Committee on Finance and Banking. Well, perhaps even from the various factions of this question, three minutes may be sufficient to make an additional statement. Because the issue that concerns our citizens, well, can't be tackled that way and not allow everyone to be able to express their opinions and attitudes. But we don't have the ability to do that right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u244	Young Andrey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u245	Paribay Andrey, “For Ukraine! ” I'd like to give the floor to Deputy Arjevetina from our group.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u246	National MP Arjevetin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u247	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that today we should consider the 2010 Basic Principles. We hardly talked about it today. We talked about what's going on today. And what our Ukrainians are waiting for in 2010, we didn't say. So I propose that we continue the discussion today, and I support my colleague from the committee to give the factions an opportunity, at least, to comment on this.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u248	Kulczynski Mikola Grigorovich
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u249	Please pass the word to Arjevetin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u250	Deputy Arjevetin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u251	Ladies and gentlemen! — In view of the fact that Peter Alexiyovich has not really been asked all the questions, I also suggest that we be able to ask Peter Alexiyovich another question.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u252	National Deputy Skutak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u253	I just want to join everyone who's spoken. Peter Alexiyovich was so professionally and professionally providing information that we would like to discuss with him on this subject, especially since this is a very important issue from the point of view of the next budget that we are going to consider here, and we need to have qualified information from the point of view of the Board of the National Bank.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u254	National deputy of Vyezovsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u255	Vladimir Vijeziwski, “Our Ukraine”, a deputy group “For Ukraine”. I think it'll be fairer if we take the time that we're talking right now, answer the question-answers and have additional professional answers to look further at the formation of our budget and the ability of the state to deal with those challenges that are going on from the outside. And there are realisers here in the hall to make them happen.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u256	People's deputy of Leapina.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u257	National MP Lapina, MP “For Ukraine!”, “Our Ukraine”. And I want to point out, my dear colleagues, that the National Bank is now facing a fundamental choice: which way will it go, whether it will be monetary liberalisation, that is, a floating rate, or whether it will be set within, a framework, and so on. We have to talk about this, guys, we can't stand back, we have to say how the country will live next year. Because it's actually going to make a huge difference in the whole situation, both with budget planning, and for people who now have currency loans, deposits. I don't know what's best, what's worse. I can't give you an evaluation right now. But we have to talk about it, make an expert assessment. We don't have the right to just stand back. It's not just a political issue, it's a matter of our country's life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u258	Kirilenko Viacheslav Anatoliyovich. You don't have any more suggestions, do you?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u259	Your offer has been resounded. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have essentially two proposals from the procedure. The national deputies Chechtov, Lukyanov, and Vaziewski suggested that time be increased and that the questions of the head of the National Bank continue to be answered. People’s deputies Lukyanov, Arzvitin, Shkutak, and Ljapina expressed the need to discuss the information provided by the head of the National Bank of Ukraine. There were no other suggestions from the procedure. So I suggest that you identify yourself now, the Supreme Council has the right to decide by vote. Or, if there is no objection, by consensus, we can continue the question. Is there any objection to continuing the question to the head of the National Bank Board? None. Peter Alexiyovich, please, on the rostrum. There is a consensual vision of the Ukrainian people's deputies, and we continue to answer the questions that will be asked by the Ukrainian people's deputies. Please, I'm asking you to explain the queue that was after the previous record. Yes, we have. In the “Council” system, we were asked the last question, the national deputy was Karpuk. National Deputy Karpuk, please ask your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u260	Vladimir Karpuk, MP “For Ukraine!”, please pass on the word to Stanislav Arzvetin, a prominent financier.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u261	Stanislaw Arzhevtin, a deputy group “For Ukraine!” Peter Alexiovich! I thank you too for your meaningful report, and my questions will be as follows. Please explain to the hall, we have been talking about ten billion dollars here for six months to solve the problems of the euro. Today, we have heard from the minister whether the minister’s responsibilities, that such money is no longer expected from the National Bank, will come from a stable fund. Please tell me how real this is to calm the MPs down, because the money is already divided, the programs are already solved, and the money is not actually there, because you've approved a completely different income for the National Bank. And the second question. Please comment on how you view the planned destruction of the National Bank’s independence that has been taking place over the past six months. Today, they found a channel for a hidden show through securities. We've got it today.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u262	Mr. Stanislav, thank you so much for asking. We were actually discussing at a meeting of the Council of the National Bank the issue of change in the cost of the asset, which was envisaged in accordance with the law voted in the Supreme Council, a substantial increase in income over the National Bank's expenditure. I'd like us to divide these questions into two parts. Part one: Ukraine’s laws must be enforced. If the Supreme Council decides to recalculate these funds, it's made up of two parts.: the first is the quarterly recalculation of income. The National Bank will enforce this law, and if this law enters into force, the funds will go sideways. I think, personally, it's extremely risky because it's income and income. The National Bank’s income and expenditure can be both positive and negative. Counting revenue is no problem, but if there's negative damage, what if there's a crisis in which every central bank, any developed country, where do we get the budget back? But if it's national MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u263	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u264	If the national MPs make that decision, well, then the law has to be enforced. Now it's worth it. The sum of 10 billion that you mentioned is the forecast. And if it's not executed, the National Bank won't have where to finance it. Today, the National Bank’s income and expenditure accounts have led us to an amount of 691 million in the year. Why such a sharp shortcut? First position. Anatoly Ivanovich, Mr. Merkowski, I would like to. Today, we do not have the government’s precious obligations, which end in this neighborhood, with valuable papers. In accordance with audit requirements, we have to form 4 billion reserves under these commitments. If the government makes these commitments with valuable papers, the need for reserves will fall away. [[We've reached an agreement.]] And then the National Bank's profits, which we're going to be able to budget next year, will increase. But that depends on our effective interaction today. So the figure of 10 billion, I emphasize, is just a predictive indicator, and we're going to be funding the budget in fact: how much is going to be, as we're going to figure out, what is going to be, what is going to be, what is going to be, what is going to be, what is going to be, what is going to be, what is going to be, what is going to be, what is going to be, what is going to be, what is going to be, what is going to be, what is going to be, So I don't see any political debate here. I believe that incomes should be tied to expenses. No income, no expenses. Thank you. About the independence of the National Bank. It's a fundamental constitutional principle, I don't see any reason to discuss it. And ensuring the maximum independence of the National Bank is a key condition for them to fulfil their functions of ensuring the stability of the national monetary unit.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u265	Jódzik Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u266	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People’s Party. Dear Peter Alexiovich! Since the end of last year, about tens of billions of dollars have been used by the National Bank of Ukraine to refinance commercial banks. Almost immediately after the start of the procedure, charges began to be made about the opacity of the situation, which had consequences, including monetary destabilization. At the same time, during this period, almost a year ago, there was no draft law in the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulating this process of refinancing. Not from the National Bank of Ukraine, nor from the government, nor from other legislators. From your point of view, who is responsible for the fact that almost 100 billion dollars have been used in the refinancing process is extremely opaque. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u267	Thank you very much, Mr. Jaroslav. Regarding the impression that the National Bank is releasing an uncontrollable emission. I'd like to give you just two digits. As of June 1, 2009, the total monetary base was 193.7 billion dollars. The 1st of October is 183.6. So the total amount of money went down by 10 billion. This means that we actually have a negative emission. Why? Because if a gross domestic product goes down, the cost of service to the economy is less. And that's why the hard monetary policy of the National Bank, which is triggered by the tiring number and stabilization of the dollar in the last month, is that we're trying extremely hard to limit these rates. It's about the refinancing. You're absolutely right. And I, as head of the National Bank Board earlier this year, said that we had no reason to blame anyone for the refinancing.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u268	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u269	Notice that we are indignant about the opacity of the refinancing procedure. We've demanded that every bank, if it's asking for a refund, that this information be public as well as the decision of the National Bank. From these times, by the way, the American largest news corporation Bloomberg won the Federal Reserve System Court on the obligation of the Federal Reserve Refunding Information System. I think this information has to be transparent, it's just going to increase trust. At the same time, from these times, we have two conclusions from the largest audit companies that the refinancing process was conducted at the National Bank according to the legislation in force, they did not find any violations there. Without access to these documents, I can only confirm to you that we are receiving this, that the conclusion of the companies is at our disposal. And the third. We can't say today that 100 billion is a waste of money. Mr. Jaroslav, you're no worse, we've known each other for a long time, you know, it's no worse for me to know that when 90 billion deposits come out of the bank, and the loans don't come back to that amount, in order for the bank to not collapse, these funds have to be replaced temporarily. Therefore, it cannot be said that it was done wrongly, unfairly, unfairly. We argue that the practice of refinancing is a widespread world practice. Imagine that the United States has increased its external debt to $15 trillion because of the refinancing of its banks. Imagine, for every inhabitant of the Earth, there's over 3,000 dollars of the American state, 3,000 dollars of debt, it doesn't scare them. And so, of course, our policy should be transparent, it should be absolutely clear criteria and principles, not only in the issuance of the refinancing, but also in the continuation of the refinancing, the extension of these loans, and these steps of the National Bank must be flawless, to call, to be extremely transparent and to inspire trust both in the Supreme Council and in the people of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u270	Arjewitin Stanislav Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u271	Stanislav Arjewitin, group “For Ukraine”. Peter Alexiyovich, the National Bank is accused of two more things, this is, first of all, not entirely projected exchange rate formation and second of all, this is almost complete silence of the National Bank and population information, and the business of waiting. Or the measures that the National Bank will take. As for the first question, you know that the National Bank Act states that monetary control, monetary regulation is carried out in accordance with a special law. The Supreme Council has not yet given birth to this special law. And as you think, should the National Bank now, or perhaps those deputies who are represented in the Council, put a dot so that we, at the twentieth year of our independence, may have such a law. And please tell me if the population information policy should change with regard to the National Bank's actions in 2010.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u272	Thank you very much again, Mr. Stanislav. Three questions. First. I'm not a lawyer for the National Bank. And the National Bank Board has completely different functions than the government. The Board of the National Bank has no or no influence on specific monetary decisions of the Board. This is the principle of independence. At the same time, the National Bank is denied the right to legislative initiative. And you and I know very well that work on specific bills, including monetary regulation issues, including banking supervision issues, including compensation fund issues. compensation for the contributions of natural persons, these works have been done and are now awaiting professional discussion in the Supreme Council. Through whom they will be introduced: through the government, through the national deputies of the council, I can only ask the national MPs to speed up the consideration of this, these bills, because they are essential during crisis regulation, the crisis of monetary policy. It's about silence. Well, Your Honor, you know me very well, not the first year. I'm trying.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u273	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u274	Where I can try to publicly inform through all the means that I have at my disposal about the potential steps taken by the National Bank. Unfortunately, the National Bank Board is, in some ways, limited to specific regulatory acts that do not fall within its competence. I can honestly admit it today. The information policy of the National Bank is ineffective.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u275	School of Andriy Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u276	Thank you. I'd like that. Peter Alexiyovich, with all due respect to you and your fellow MP in the past and to the leader of the corresponding structure, which, you report here now from her, I do understand that it is not necessary to give political evaluations. But anyway, now it's a story. There's a charge against the bill of lading, and I think it's based on the National Bank. In fact, the head of the National Bank is now Stelma, because the Supreme Council has made a decision, so this issue of competence can be discussed, the President's responsibility for this position is vested in the President. I don't know who's in there, it's, in principle, not a lot of people interested. But that policy of the National Bank, which causes the collapse of the bracelets, has to be stopped. And I think that from this rostrum you have to offer the Supreme Council and the country a way to stop this process. Because I think the main point here is the election. The worse the situation with the bracelet, the less likely it is for today’s Prime Minister to become president. That's what they think of Bank. That's it. It's a very simple arithmetic. I'd like that.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u277	Thank you very much, Mr. Andrew, for your kind words to me. I'm very pleased with that, and I appreciate both you and your point of view. I say again that I will not be giving political evaluations today. I say that the policy course has been largely defined by inefficient economic policies over the last five years. The country lived at no cost. The crisis was irreversible. The global crisis has only caused the internal Ukrainian crisis. And the heads of government, all of them, turned out to be just hostages to this crisis, really. And for today, we need it. The crisis must make us work professionally. And the budget discussion that we're talking about right now is politics. And taking customs-tariff decisions to protect the internal market is a policy course. And stabilizing the balance of payments, when we export more than we import, is a policy course. And cooperation with the International Monetary Fund, which has allowed for the 10 billion that is essential to support.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u278	National MP Scubenko refers the right to a question to the national deputy Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u279	Vladimir Yavorowski. Mr. Peter, well, after your report, I think a lot of people have the idea that during the crisis you needed more than a head of the National Bank than a foreign minister. But it's not up to you. Your report had a very interesting idea, at least for me, about what it would be worth to do today about lending, to finance the product chain of whoever's buying, that is, the last. It's a really interesting thought, because we all think about it. I think we need to finance the manufacturer and help him. But your report said that there was no bank crisis, which may still be reaching peaks. Credit inflation is 0.8; bank losses are 20 billion dollars, and peaks are not over. I ask myself: ‘ How can I break up this vicious circle? If we do not help the manufacturer, and only there in the tail, so to speak, this section of food, how do we break this vicious circle?" Explain.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u280	Thank you very much, Mr. Volodymyr. That's an absolutely right question. A transparent credit aid to the manufacturer. That's why Natzbank was separated from a particular manufacturer and only works with banks because Natzbank has no right to take these risks. Who in the state should decide how to lend a business? It's a bank. A bank, strictly a commercial bank. In what way will the enterprise lead its viability, its prospects? Only when he has the demand for his produce. And so the only way out of this is to support demand. Demand is not just the population. Because, for example, there's nothing that the Novokramator factory sells from the population, but consumers of its machine-building products should also have the costs. And at the end of the day, the market will put everything in place, certainly, with strict government regulation. So the buyer, the people of Ukraine, votes with rubles or bracelets, or with a dollar worldwide for the products he eats. And you have to hand out the people the bracelet, and they will buy and support the manufacturer that is competitive. And the manufacturer will return the money to the bank, finance his suppliers in that way.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u281	People's MP Landik.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u282	Dear Petr Aleksevic, despite the crisis, promises an increase of 3.7 per cent in production in 2010 and a budget deficit of 46.7 billion. But we can see that the decline is expected to be 15-20 per cent and the deficit will increase from 70 to 80 billion. What will the Council of the National Bank do, what will be your steps to avoid such dire and very dangerous indicators for the country's economy? And the second. Peter Alexievich, here you are, reporting to us, perhaps you're justifying the Cabinet of Ministers? Look, his function, the Cabinet of Ministers, has only come together to borrow international money and print money. What about the production that will give us money to keep that currency? I mean.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u283	I thank you so much for asking. First of all, is it a real 3.7 percent increase in gross domestic product? According to the National Bank Act, we are obliged at the National Bank Board to calculate our monetary aggregates exclusively on the government’s forecast. This is a government function. And no macroeconomic projections can be taken away from the government. Does the government forecast account for 3.7 percent? Yeah, I think this forecast is real, because you said that the fall this year was very big. And in terms of this base increase of 3.7 percent, I think that's a completely real indicator. At the same time, the government budget deficit rates depend on many factors that I am not prepared to tell you today to engage in a professional discussion that is not politicized about its validity. If you ask me, are there risks? There are risks, and there can be no risk. Is there reason for optimism? Yeah, and there's a reason for optimism, I told you that.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u284	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u285	Fortunately, the growth of the economy is not very dependent on the government. Metal prices are going to go up, the economy is going to go up. The price of Ukrainian grain, the wheat, the production of the agrarian complex, will increase the economy. And the task of you and me is to make all the conditions for a peasant to take his wheat abroad without giving bribes, without having any difficulty with the railway or the port, with nothing to allow a metallurgy to export its position where he is. create all the markets in the world open to him so he can load the job. And that's what we need to work on with you: the recovery of the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-07-m0.u286	Thank you, Peter Alexiovich. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, during the discussion of the process of dealing with the matter, the National Deputies also made a proposal to discuss statements from factions and the Professional Committee. Proposals made by national deputies by Lapin, Vieziussky, Shkutka, and Arzvetina This question can only be resolved by a vote. So please, Your Honor. I am voting on the proposal of Ukraine's national deputies, Arzhevtina, Shkutka, Vizewski and Ljapina, to discuss information on the Council of the National Bank of Ukraine on the basic principles of monetary policy for 2010. I'd like to make up my mind. [[14:00:36]] For 168 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 117, “Timoshenko Yulia Block” – 1, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” – 22, Communists – 27, “Litvina Block” – 0, “Afterfractional” – 1. Thus, the Council of the National Bank of Ukraine has completed its consideration of the issue of information. The morning plenary session is closed. The morning plenary meeting will begin tomorrow at 10 a.m. Good luck.
