ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please take your seats so that we can continue our work. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Council" system. [[16:01:13]] [[Registration of Ukrainian National Deputies]] There were 431 national deputies registered in the session hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues, you and I have agreed that after the morning session at the evening meeting, we will move on to a decision on draft legislation on the establishment of living minimum and minimum wage. At the same time, two factions -- the faction of the Regions and the faction of the Communist Party -- require a 30-minute recess to be announced for consultations. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! I want to tell you again. I am. I want to tell you again. That's my question. Well, please. Ivan Grigorovich! Ivan Grigorovich! Well, you've got it all figured out. So should you hold meetings of the Conciliation Board, or will you simply consult? Please, initiators. Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov, microphone
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m1.u2	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! We would ask you to meet the Conciliation Council in your office and clarify a number of questions regarding the further voting on this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m1.u3	Dear National Deputies! Please! Now we're going to hold a meeting, on just one condition, that when it was decided that each MP should make a name for himself on these bills, that meant the opposite, that the decision was made. And there is no need to accuse, including the presiding officer, that he did the wrong thing. Or let's do it this way, I'm warning you the possible questions: They're registered. Anyone who hasn't checked in, we'll delete the cards. Let's vote. Let's rescind that decision, vote with our necks. But according to the Constitution, I remind you, every MP has to vote in person. So please, the faction leaders, the head of the budget committee, we are meeting. [[B in m in s a l in]] I want to say again, I'm not in any way violating the Rules. I consulted with the legal authorities. And I want to say to the author, your honor, there is no violation. All of it. A break of up to 16 hours is announced for 35 minutes. Faction leaders, please assemble in the Head's office.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m1.u4	Dear National Deputies! Let me inform you about the outcome of the Conciliation Board meeting. A number of proposals were discussed at the Conciliation Council: this is the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to change voting methods for bills on State social standards. The first proposal was to put to the vote a proposal for the Supreme Council of Ukraine to repeal the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt a decision on how to vote on laws that apply to social standards. The second proposal was to postpone the vote to, say, Thursday. You should. One minute. In the first and second cases, a vote must be taken. There was a proposal to conduct a rating vote on these bills, and which would obtain the largest number of votes, to consider it as a basis. This proposal was immediately blocked in view of the fact that a rating vote on drafts could not be carried out. We need to make a final decision. There was an attempt to compromise on the part that the Supreme Council of Ukraine would support the proposal to postpone decision-making by Thursday from social standards. And in turn tomorrow, at 10 a.m., the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will begin with all the proposals for personnel change. All who have resigned from the deputies and from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. At the same time, none of these suggestions found support. So I'm going to go this way -- what was proposed on the Conciliation Council. I'll put all the proposals to the vote. If the Supreme Council of Ukraine does not support them, that is, the first proposal to repeal the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt a parliamentary decree amending the voting procedure for bills on State social standards. If this proposal is not supported, the second proposal is to postpone the adoption of draft legislation on State social standards for the fourth time. If the second proposal is not supported, then we will follow the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and vote in the manner determined by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues! I would ask for the results of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of these proposals not to block. Because everyone insisted that we should make a decision transparently and openly about social standards. Let's take it clearly and accept it openly. I mean, if you'll have your attention! I'm voting on the first proposal. Abolishing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt a Parliamentary Decree amending the voting procedure for bills on State social standards. By way of a vote, Your Honorable Fellow Members, please identify yourself. [[17:12:52]] For 207 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 171, "Timoshenko Yulia Block" – 2, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" – 7, communists – 27, "Litvina Block" – 0, non-fractional - 0. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm voting on postponement of the decision. What's your hurry? You haven't voted yet, dear fellows! Have a seat, please have a vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! I'd like to ask you. It is your proposal to postpone voting on bills on state social standards for Thursday. That's your offer, I'll put it to a vote! I'm voting on a proposal for a decision on bills for state social standards. Move the decision to Thursday at 10 a.m. Please vote. Please, you asked for it, so vote now. [[17:14:39]] For-19 Dear colleagues! Please, calm down! The conclusion is clear: No one needs social standards and a higher standard of living! You need a non-working Supreme Council of Ukraine! [[Applause]] Please think, say it! I am. [[B in m in s a l in]] What? We didn't cancel, but now we've got a name vote to run, a fight to fight, or something? [[B in m in s a l in]] If it suits you, I can offer the head of the Counting Commission to have him there. Please, come on. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, I can't, it'll be the head of the Counting Commission. [[B in m in s a l in]] Deputies! I offer you as yet a compromise decision. I don't want you to go into one office and tell me that you don't support this ridiculous blockage. I'm offering you, let's find this compromise and I'll put it to a vote, and then we'll put the decision-making issue aside for Thursday. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., we'll start with personnel questions. So this is a compromise?Oh, my God! Let's vote for this compromise! Why don't you want any compromise? [[B in m in s a l in]] Now, one minute, please! [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, let's make this proposal now for every faction, please express your position. Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic, then Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m1.u5	Dear national MPs, distinguished voters! The faction of the Party of the Regions is proposing to vote today, today, not to postpone. There's no clowning in this room. [[B in m in s a l in]] In this room today, vote on social standards according to the order of the day approved. [[B in m in s a l in]] In the order of the day, the usual way. [[B in m in s a l in]] If you want, if you want to break this question, vote, we won't let you. You already took it. [[B in m in s a l in]] They started breaking up in July, and you've been pulling since July. That's a question you'll have to accept. The people will make you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m1.u6	I got it. I mean. Victor Fedorovich, dear colleagues! The Supreme Council's decision has been adopted by 241 votes in favour of each MP personally or “against”. We have to cancel this decision of the Supreme Council, then I'll put it to a vote with great pleasure. You don't want to hear my suggestions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m1.u7	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The faction clearly supports the proposal to start voting immediately. They've been pulling as hard as they can. The whole procedure was discussed. They all spoke on the proposals contained in these bills. The authors had a closing word. It's all said. The decision was taken yesterday by the Conciliation Council. It's open, it's legit. Today it has received support in the hall. The full Chamber of Deputies. Why are we making fun of people? Let's start the voting procedure! Let's start the vote! It's categorical!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m1.u8	Mikola Martinenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m1.u9	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! You and I have decided today in the Hall on the procedure for dealing with this issue. Not enough, I'll remind all the deputies that yesterday on the Conciliation Council it was like a compromise to vote like this today on the issues at today's plenary meeting. For some reason, we have to review our positions under the direction of one faction. For some reason, we've been blocking the rostrum for a month. It's not just the national MPs at all, it's the voters at all. So there's only one way out. To put questions on the vote as determined this morning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m1.u10	Please, Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m1.u11	Thank you. Martinuk is a faction of Communists. Dear colleagues! Today’s discussion showed that despite who was acting, who was supporting, who was opposed to social standards, it was practically impossible to live like this in every speech. That is, with the minimum budget for 2009. And you know that they voted that, for the first time in history, for a year, there should be no change in any of the standards that they've remained at the same level as 2008, so it can't be. That is to say, we must find ways to resolve the issues that we have considered today, both from four bills or from five bills, because, in fact, four of them, because one of them relates to the budget already in 2010, the decision of colleague Papiev must be voted in favour of one of them in order to find an optimal solution. And I would like to invite other colleagues to look for such a solution.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m1.u12	Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m1.u13	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear colleagues! There's a strange situation. Yesterday at a meeting of the Conciliation Council, people representing all five parliamentary factions agreed that the Constitution should be followed. And first of all, when it comes to the problem that's been in the spotlight for a few months because of which it seems that the Supreme Council has been blocked. Today, the national deputies met in the hall. It took place from ten to two o’clock all the presentations, the discussions. What's the problem? What's the use of blocking? What, people haven't been brought in yet? Well, say it honestly. We didn't bring people, we didn't have enough people. But there are other deputies. Look. There are nearly 400 people in the hall. And one more moment. I have the results of the vote just now. I have a question. Who suggested that the voting procedure be postponed until Thursday? How many regionals voted for this? I see four men. So what do you want?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m1.u14	Dear National Deputies! In order to find compromise, I am once again ready to put to the vote. Please take your seats. Put to the vote a motion to change the voting method, go back on postponement. But that's a decision to make, I mean the minimum of living. Why won't you take it? You wanted to accept it in any way, but you have every opportunity to do so. Let's take it! Why don't you want to take it? So I'm going to re-vote so there's no race for the people. Everybody's on, that's enough! [[B in m in s a l in]] I didn't call anyone's last name. Dear colleagues! I will put to the vote once again to decide on the annulment of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's ruling on Parliament's decision to change the voting procedure for bills on State social standards, on the return to the issue of the annulment of the ruling. [[Sit in your seats]] Vote, please. Change the vote. Ephraim, please. Let's listen to the head of the regulatory committee! He'll say we don't need to violate the Supreme Council regulations and work. Come on, what are you all yelling at! Please, Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m1.u15	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! Vladimir Mihajlovich, you said that this hour, a good phrase that we will ultimately vote in favour of this draft order. And the insinuations that have been made today because of the fact that today the deputies are actually on the move or are in the hospital can't be brought in, and the conversation is about every vote in this room, so that it's understood, it's consciously put to a failed vote. That's why we support you. And let's change the normal vote, like we had the cards. The rostrum is being unlocked, and we will vote in favour of the draft regulation. It will be the identification of any will of the MP present here, and we can see everyone on the board who has voted and there will be no questions. But every time it's done, it's done for.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m1.u16	Dear National Deputies! In connection with that. Now, I'm going to put these proposals to the vote again, but I want to tell you, in view of the fact that the work of the Supreme Council has been blocked for a long time, there is one thing that needs to be passed by laws to raise public social standards. It was suggested that each national MP should personally express his position, not from a beautiful distance, but from the Supreme Council of Ukraine, for there is much talk about the shame of going to the Supreme Council. [[Applause]] I think they came in handy. But in order for each MP to say in person, he is “in favour” or “against” so that we can then make a decision and not go back to that decision. There were no objections to that argument yesterday. We made a decision this morning, there was no objection. Please tell me what other suggestions are needed to pass this law? At the same time, I propose that we put it to a vote now. Please take your seats, we'll re-vote. Well, I'll put it on the vote. What are you, respectable colleagues?Oh, my God! Come on, break the microphones, please. I will now put to the vote to return to the question of repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt a parliamentary decree amending the voting regime on bills on State social standards. Please. What, the system doesn't work? There's a vote. Please. [[17:27:20]] For 213 That's better. We're not back. Now I'm going to vote on the transfer of the decision on the bills under discussion, and I'm going to read 4762, 5062, 5091-1, 5091-2, 5091-3 by 10 a.m. on Thursday, 24 September to review this proposal. Please. [[17:28:11]] For the 18th. The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m1.u17	The factions. Well, please, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m1.u18	Honorable national deputies, in connection with this. That there are threats to my address and that there is no way to hold a meeting. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll just say one thing before closing the session. People are good, let's go! What happens to the country as a result if you go after them! I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed.
