ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:51]] [[Registration of Ukrainian National Deputies]] The 419 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear National Deputies! Today is the birthday of our colleagues Babaev Oleg Majdanović and Gerasimük Olga Volodymyrna. Please welcome our colleagues, wish them every success. [[Applause]] Dear National Deputies! I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at plenary meetings on 20 October 2009. Ten questions of the agenda have been considered. Two laws and three decrees were adopted, one bill and three draft decrees were rejected. Dear National Deputies! In accordance with article 25 of the Rules, 30 minutes are allocated on Wednesday for statements by national deputies with proposals, statements, and messages. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the speech. We're recording the performances. Here's the name of the people's deputies on the board. National Deputy Vasil Potapov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Prepare Lukyanov. Volodymyr Stretovich will be. Hanna Herman, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u2	Dear colleagues! Yesterday, Parliament made two very important decisions. First, yesterday Parliament raised minimum wages and pensions, and the second, in the first reading, was a bill that compared all: both MPs, and the President, and the average citizens, before the law. These are very important decisions, and they testify to the growing role of parliament in Ukraine. While the authorities are inactive, the authorities are not trying to make life easier for people in crisis, Parliament has taken on this responsible role, and that is an extremely positive fact. Therefore, in view of this, we should think about the quality of Parliament, both today and the future. And the idea of open lists in future parliamentary elections today should stand and be more relevant than ever. However, we remember as leaders some factions, such as Julia Timoshenko, before the past parliamentary elections, quite clearly referred to and promised. She said, I quote, "I am personally responsible for every MP who comes to Parliament on the Party of Regions list." Today, a shadow is cast on Parliament. Some facts have been proved, some have not been proved. But I did not hear Julia Timoshenko apologize publicly to people for her history with Lozinski. I didn't hear Julia Timoshenko tell her deputies who had been shadowed, whose faults were not proven, and who we were willing to defend if they didn't blame them for coming to Parliament, not hiding in their homes, come out before us and honestly, and openly told the truth. We should not today talk about the irreparable damage that the image of Ukraine in the international arena has caused this terrible scandal of child rape. We should talk about Ukraine and its first politicians being ready to take responsibility for the people they bring to Parliament. We should talk about whether we are willing to be cleansed of such things. Because such cases were terrible, shameful in other lands, but the State was judged not by what happened there, but by the way politicians, such as the first persons of the nations, reacted in case they tried to hide it from society at all costs, whether they had the courage and the power to cleanse themselves and tell society the truth. And that's very important today, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u3	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u4	And before the presidential elections, and before the next parliamentary elections, if they didn't take place. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u5	The national deputy Lukyanova, the “Our Ukraine” faction, is invited to the presentation. She's handing over the right to speak to Vladimir Stretovich, the faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Victor Terrence will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u6	Good morning, Ukraine! Good morning, national MPs! The Christian-Democratic Union will not surprise anyone by the words “organised crime in Ukraine” or even“ corruption in the Democratic Republic of the Congo”. But let’s put it this way: there’s corruption in the State Commission, there’s organized crime.” And if we can't "get to the head" yet, "we'll cut the tentacles". Here's to the tentacles, and today we're going to talk about it. Listen. Christian Democrats say that in Ukraine today, citizens who privatize the land free of charge are being deceived. The extent of such fraud is estimated to have reached some 130,000 people in 15 areas of Ukraine, and 17 million dollars have been recovered from their pockets. The scope of this action takes place on the one hand on the one hand, on the other hand, on the full and conscious knowledge of the leadership of the State Commission of Ukraine, and on the other hand, on its official position, the illegality of this phenomenon, as well as the inadvertent observation of this process by the prosecution authorities. What is the point of the breach? The regional structures of Derzkomzem, the branches of the state-owned enterprise “Centre of State Land cadastre” and individual local authorities, in spite of legislation, accept mandatory subscriptions for citizens in expertise, protocols, decisions to receive a so-called non-existent certificate of non-implementation of the citizen's right to free privatisation of the land for which money is collected, and at the same time small, between 180 and 200 dollars. The evidence found by VAT in the study of this problem not only indicates that this “help” is not mentioned in any normative act, but, as stated in the Autonomous Republic of Crimean Prosecutor’s Office’s Note on the Elimination of Violations of the Law of Reference, does not contain definitive objective and reliable information. In other words, this required help is Leipzig. When the head of the State Enterprise “Centre DZK” in the head of Dolinsky found out that the crime was becoming known, an attempt was made to hide it, and by letter it prohibited the regional branch in general to respond to my appeals, further violating other articles of the Criminal Code. The inability of the judicial branch to make a fair decision, and the procurator’s authorities to carry out their duties in good faith, led to the presumptuous conduct of criminals. Also after receiving the MP’s appeal, Dnipropetrov’s Land Administration issued an order stressing the inescapable need for this scrupulous reference to the alleged lack of citizens’ right to privatize the land free of charge by all the authorized land authorities in Dnipropetrov. [[Head of Eugen Hare]] Perhaps some officials of the national authorities in Ukraine do not fear God and act irresponsibly, so we Christian Democrats fear him, so we will do so with a conscience. What must we do? It's simple. The requirement of illegal help is prohibited. The second is illegal money to return to the citizens. The third is Kabminu, the State Commission to regulate this issue. It's kind of a simple way out of this situation. However, it is not possible to expect the conscience of criminals alone. The Christian Democratic Union announces a number of measures to restore the illegal rights of citizens, which will include: the establishment of a Temporary Parliamentary Investigation Commission to investigate the crime, the requirements of parliamentary response to the district prosecutors for immediate on-the-spot checks and the prohibition of procuratorial responses to illegal claims, so-called, help, and immediate settlement.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u7	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u8	to establish direct contact with citizens who have suffered from an illegal affair and to provide them with the necessary legal assistance to conduct illegally paid guests. We're going to do this openly, out loud, with broad public access to decisions taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u9	Victor Taran, the faction of Yulia Timoshenko, is invited to the presentation. Jaroslav Kenzior will be next, and Vladimir Karpuk will give the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u10	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. A little line from the beginning. I'm not going to comment on a single MP's speech, a speech in the spirit of Cambodian provocations, it's more visible to her, even more visible to her -- it's long known to everyone. I'd just like to say a little bit more before I speak. In order for our BSB to implement the President's decree to publish the names of former KGB agents there, all the whistleblowers and all that. But I'm going to talk about positives. Dear colleagues! Last Wednesday there were parliamentary hearings on Ukraine’s cooperation with the Ukrainian diaspora. I want to say that this is the first time in the history of Ukrainian parliamentaryism that has brought honor to our Parliament. And I want to say that the Ukrainian diaspora is one of the largest in the world and the Ukrainians abroad are very respected people, they hold important positions in various countries, they are serious scientists and, indeed, the lights of medicine, culture and Ukraine will lose a lot if they are not maintained by all very serious ties. So our parliamentary hearings in Ukraine were attended by representatives of the Ukrainian Diaspora from France, Estonia, Canada, Russia, Italy, from Spain, and this was indeed a remarkable event in the activities of the Ukrainian Parliament, and once again I would like to stress, it is an honor to the Supreme Council. And these presentations clearly highlighted the need to strengthen ties between Ukraine and Ukraine abroad and, in particular, the need for a single focal point. Perhaps these are ministries related to a foreign equivalent of why there are, for example, in France or in the same countries of the Baltic Sea, or, at least, the creation of a separate department and the competence of the centre should include questions of culture, visas, and labour migration, and so forth. And by the way, for the first time in years of independence, the government has allocated a very large amount of money for cooperation with the foreign, and this shows that the government really understands the importance of addressing the problem. At the same time, there was concern from representatives of the Ukrainian Diaspora in Russia, the representatives of the Ukrainian Diaspora themselves in Russia, and it was said that the number of Ukrainians in Russia declined disastrously year after year, indicating the assimilation of Ukrainians in Russia. And second of all. In Russia, where more than 7 million Ukrainians do not have any Ukrainian schools, there are no Ukrainian newspapers, no Ukrainian television programs. And that's why, especially hypocritically, some of our fellow countrymen in this Parliament are speaking, willfully quoting in Russian, about some seeming ephemeral oppression of the Russians in Ukraine. And finally, we wanted our Committee on State Television and Radio to set up Ukrainian television abroad for Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u11	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u12	so that the Ukrainians would know about Ukraine from Ukrainian broadcasts, from Ukrainian news, and not from Russian overruns, in which, unfortunately, the Ukrainians were long-soldied with the image of the enemy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u13	Jaroslav Kenzior, faction of "Our Ukraine People's Self-Defense". Next will be the national deputy Popov instead of his colleague Jaroschuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u14	Jaroslav Kenzior, “For Ukraine!” The civil movement “For Ukraine! ” is deeply concerned about the situation in Crimea. In the information space of the Crimea, the chauvinistic Moscow and local promotional media are completely dominated, and law enforcement authorities do not want to see international hostility and the calls for secession. The Crimean authorities limit the use of the national language by pursuing a policy of rearing children and not only ethnic Russians but also Ukrainians and Crimean Tatars. Only 2 percent of children attend schools in the Ukrainian language. Most areas do not have such schools at all. Russian troops own the Crimea as they do at home, not only by exporting and importing all property and weapons, but by printing tons of Ukrainian, anti-Ukraine newspapers in the printery of the Black Sea Navy, and by reading so-called “mighty” lessons in schools that raise children's hatred of Ukraine. Extremist pro-Russian groups openly operate in Crimea and receive all the support from Russia and its troops stationed in Crimea. The latest developments, however, remind us not of the information war but of the preparations for armed aggression. The Black Sea fleet from September is subordinated to the North Caucasus military district. On September 29, the Ukrainian community of Sevastopol stated that the fleet had carried out an appropriate restructuring to prepare the operation for the capture of Crimea by air and sea, and had taken all objects with concrete cellars along the main highways of Crimea. And on this background, First Deputy Prime Minister Turchinov ordered the closure of the only patriotic newspaper of the Ukrainian Navy. And Tymoshenko is holding an army on a hungry ration, encouraging potential aggressors. Anti-Ukrainian media and extremist organizations should be stopped, the authors of appeals to secession, war, national hostility brought to criminal responsibility. Ukraine should increase the financing of the Armed Forces, including parts stationed in Crimea, ensure its own presence in the information space and the unhindered development of Ukrainian education. Ukrainian organizations in Crimea must receive all the support of their own state. Those officials who engage in subversive activities against the Ukrainian State in Crimea must be released or committed to court. If the official Kiev doesn't act adequately and quickly in Crimea, now, tomorrow may be too late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u15	National Deputy Popov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Next up will be Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u16	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! Respectable voters! Regrettably, the fears of the members of the Party of the Regions that the people of Ukraine and the local authorities will become hostages of the unthinkable policy of the Cabinet of Ministers in the area of housing and utilities, and especially during the heating season, are confirmed. The problem is that the heating season has started for seven days and the natural gas limits and thus the possibility of providing stable housing and utilities services to the regions to date are only 52 per cent of the territory. Dnepropetrovska, Zaporozsky, Lugansk, Odessa, Harkovsky, Ivano-Frankovsky, part of Zakarpatska, Hmelnicka and Rowen region do not have limits to natural gas to date. What's the problem? The fact is, unfortunately, that the Government has not solved the most important task and the most important problem that we, as members of the Party of the Regions, spoke about a year ago when we discussed the 2009 draft budget, is the problem of non-payment for gas. Today, the debt for natural gas from utilities amounts to $3 billion. And with the start of the heating season, that figure will increase astronomically. If municipalities had previously been able to go to commercial banks and obtain credit resources, there was no possibility for the Government to do so today. Today Sberbank is given the right to lend to municipalities, but Sberbank has no money for it. And Sberbank offers conditions that are not acceptable to utilities. Therefore, we will soon have a complication of this most serious problem. But there's not enough money on the ground, there's not enough money on the ground, and there might be a non-parliamentary term for it, and there's a lot of money in the municipalities through the work of the Treasury. The bottom line is that 15 days and in some cases 20 and 25 days do not cover local budgets aimed at paying off public debt to utilities, financing of health care, education, payment of work done in preparation for the heating season. The Government has decided to use, think about it, the use of municipal money to solve its problems by those for whom the State and the Government are responsible. It's unacceptable. And today we have a huge number of appeals from various local governments to put an end to this. Yesterday, one of the measures said that perhaps only spring would save us. I don't want that to happen.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u17	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u18	The pessimistic statement proved true.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u19	Anatoly Kirilovich Kinakh, faction of the Party of Regions instead of Mikhail Chechtov, please. The next one will be the National MP Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u20	Honorable citizens of Ukraine, distinguished national MPs! I am confident that the theme of my talk should unite everyone in this room and beyond, regardless of the political color. Ukraine is rapidly increasing as a state of external economic and political dependence. In fact, our nation is at an unprecedented rate falling into a very risky debt hole. And instead of the concentration of national financial, material, human resources, Ukraine has become a state that is walking around the world with an extended hand: the International Monetary Fund, Russia, the European Union, the Arab world. This greatly undermines not only our dignity but in general contradicts the essence of our national economic interests. Yes, all over the world, external financial loans are being used, but at least two basic principles are being implemented: the terms of the loans must be in line with national interests, the focus on development, the competitiveness of the national economy. Neither first nor secondly, these conditions are not met. Today we have come to such a disgraceful situation when the government has already claimed that there is no need to approve the anti-crisis programme in Ukraine, because the government is a programme of cooperation with the International Monetary Fund. The government can no longer form a draft budget for 2010 without experts from the International Monetary Fund and other foreign advisers. Today, from abroad, Ukraine is being dictated which should be fiscal, monetary, tax, social policy, a severe ban on the use of modern methods of state protectionism, and in fact Ukraine is losing some of its economic sovereignty, without solving very painful problems, as Ukraine's economic downturn has no analogues in Europe, including lowering the standard of living of our citizens. There is no solution to the problem of access to credit resources, and there is an increasing internal debt on the value added tax in the context of its compensation to businesses. 18 billion -- bid, debt -- over 5 billion. The tax bill doesn't work, the conditions for creating an efficient economy are being destroyed on the basis of innovation policy. Our demand is one, unable to defend the interests of Ukrainian citizens and social protection according to the Constitution, to carry out anti-crisis measures, to step aside, to the side, do not hostage the Ukrainian people, the economy and the state as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u21	Valerius Pisarenko, faction of Yulia Timoshenko. The following will be the national deputy, Korge.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u22	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to state from this high rostrum the facts of corruption that are destroying the judicial system today and that are actually destroying the entire power of Ukraine. The judicial system is dying today, and it is dying because of such sad acts as Judge Zvaric of Lviv, who once showed us how to Christmas in courts. This is the judge who revealed the facts in which the deputy heads of the President’s Secretariat came and bribed the judges for making certain decisions. But even now it can be said that the manifestations that were involved with Judge Welder were just flowers. Today there are judges who can be said to be already welded to 2 or possibly boiled to the square. I am talking today about the judge of the Kyiv District Administrative Court, Oleg Bachun, who is already on the Committees of the Supreme Council. We all got the right facts of his fine life, which are completely out of proportion with the normal work of the judge. I want to tell you that the progress made by corrupters in the judicial system today is beginning to be frightening, especially before the presidential elections, when we realize that the mechanisms will be used sufficiently differently, and the judges who are already arguing with the oligarchs in the Forbes lists today are deciding the fate of this country. I just want to tell you about some of the facts that were published at the Justice Committee meeting that are asking today how adequately individual judges today are handling matters. For example, if you remember, as far as Judge Welder is concerned, all his schemes were poured out in one million dollars about the United States, which he was able to accumulate during his lifetime. The subject, or subject, that the judge of the district administrative court relates, was able to inculcate much more. It's also an apartment that costs more than half a million dollars today and that's in the center of Kiev, it's also a children's camp, and a land plot of almost seven acres, which is estimated to cost seven million dollars almost, and the judge determined by judgment that it belongs to him. The judge uses $30,000 phones, and he says it allows him to communicate normally with the outside world. I just want to tell you that over the last three years, this judge has used more than 20 charter flights, each of which cost at least $40,000. Please tell me, can the judicial system cover such people? What about us? Can we continue to give such ones the benefit of the doubt? And is yesterday's refusal to remove the inviolability, including from the national MPs, whether or not it raises the question of what?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u23	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u24	Do not such facts raise the question that corruption will never be overcome if we do not set the first example, that the deputies will not be prepared to take away the inviolability, and that judges such as the judge and the head of the district administrative court will, in fact, sit, not in the cabinets of the court, but rather sit, in completely different places? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u25	Olena Lukash, faction of the Party of the Regions. Instead of coworker Korja. Please. Olga Bodnar will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u26	Dear voters, dear colleagues! The 2010 presidential race has one feature: it will take place for the first time using the National Electoral Register. The authenticity and relevance of this first electronic bank state's personal data is the guarantee of citizens' rights to choose and be chosen. Clearly, clarifying the personal data of the National Electoral Register is the task of power. I want to assure you that this task is not being handled by the authorities. Many voters will not be on the ballots on the day of the vote. That is clear today. The activities of the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and the Ministry of Justice are of particular concern. Dear voters, it doesn't work. A few examples. On October 15, the authorities of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine presented only 39 percent of the voter registration in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, only 60 percent of the voter data in Zaporozhye, 51 percent of the voter data in the Kirovograd region. The authorities of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine have committed the same violations in the same regions that traditionally support Viktor Yanukovic and the Party of Regions. In ARC, 55 percent of voter data, in Zaporozhye, 63 percent of voter data, in Odessa, 71 percent of voter data, in Kiev, only 66 percent of voter data. The same is true of military forces, not updating voter data. Much of the information by the registry departments has been converted to work, including the authorities of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, 22 percent of the data on voters have been returned, due to errors, inaccuracies, as the Ministry of Internal Affairs is unable to work. Twenty-one percent of the voter data was returned to the Ministu authorities for processing. The default reasons for the return are printer errors, incomplete electoral entries, invalid street names. You know that each of us has received or should have received reports of his whereabouts in the voter register. But according to Krašta, 451,000, or 1.24 percent of Ukrainian citizens, were immediately returned to registering authorities because of the lack of full electoral mail addresses, the death of voters, and so on. This fact testifies to the fact that it is the authorities of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Ministry of Justice that provide non-quality information during the initial clarification of personal data. I understand that the tasks of these bodies are to prevent the voters of Ukraine from voting properly on the day of the vote. But the voters don't take a nap either. I thank the 240,000 citizens of Ukraine who have already clarified their personal data in the National Electoral Register. And I want to tell you, you can do this until the day of the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u27	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u28	Dear voters! The government will not guarantee your right to vote, but the law does. Today you can specify yourself in the voter database in the registering authorities. 30 days before the day of the vote, on the district commission, 22 on the district election committee nearest you. Take advantage of your right, take advantage of it because it does not work.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u29	National MP Bondar is transferring the right to speak to Valentina Zubov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u30	Dear colleagues! I would like to address two issues, in my view, very serious. Yesterday at the evening meeting, we considered information on the terrible scandal of the Minister of the Interior and the Attorney-General. I would like to draw the attention of not so many people's deputies, but our electors, at two times, of the Minister of the Interior. First. She said that there was a contact under the Code of Criminal Procedure between a mother's lawyer and one of the people's deputies who was suspected of this terrible crime, and the mother's lawyer demanded two million dollars from the people's representative for the son to stop recognizing him. This is the first moment. And second moment. When I asked the Minister of the Interior whether there were videos of porno content in the hands of the investigations today, the Minister of the Interior said that there were no such images where the members of the Supreme Council would be recorded in these debauchery actions. These two facts lead us to the only conclusion that this is a carefully designed provocation that is the main objective of reducing the authority of the Party of Fathers and of BUTT in fact and that it is a huge, strong blow to our leader, Vladimirovna Timoshenko. From this rostrum, I want to say that all those who have conceived this provocation will be severely punished for all they have done in carrying out this gruesome act. And the Supreme Council, I think, will keep a close eye on the progress of the investigation. That's the first problem. And the second problem. Crimea has Leninsky district, the largest area in Ukraine. There's a town-type settlement in this area, Bagherovo. During Soviet times, a military strategic airfield was located in the village. It is a unique airport that is strategically in a very serious direction. And secondly, it has a one-mile strip with a six-meter concrete cushion. By order of even the Cabinet of Ministers, which was signed by Prime Minister Yanukovic at the time, the airport was transferred from public property to utility. And today he is sailing the Lenin district, under pressure from the Supreme Council of Crimea, and has put on sale to dismantle the plates and sell them in Sochi. The auction is attended by Consol and her child, Consul Plus. Assessed by a strategic airfield of 10 million bracelets. If this happens, it will be a terrible crime against the National Security of Ukraine. Therefore, Vladimir Mihajlovich, I ask that my statement be considered as a parliamentary request to the Attorney-General.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u31	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u32	I demand that the Fund, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, do all I can to ensure that the airport remains in the hands of the State. To that end, it is necessary to adopt an appropriate order from Kabmin to repeal the previous order and transfer it from the municipality to public property. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u33	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! The statement has been completed. I'm asking the secretariat about the proposals that were made in the speeches, the reports, the applications of the national MPs, to prepare the respective assignments. At the same time, taking into account the speeches of our colleagues, I ask the committee to speed up the preparation for the consideration of the bill that relates to the electoral system, namely, the proposals for moving to open party lists. That's the first one. And the second. I also ask the relevant committee to give careful consideration to the decision of the Constitutional Court with the conclusions and assessments of the Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine. And immediately, I would like to point out, immediately, to make appropriate proposals on the basis of the decisions of the Constitutional Court so that we can bring the Constitutional Court's decision into line with the Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine so that, in the next plenary week, we can adopt appropriate amendments to this law. Ladies and gentlemen, we continue our consideration of the Ukrainian Law on amending the Ukrainian Budget Code, with proposals by the President of Ukraine from 20.07.2009. [[new editor]] Eugene Ivanovich Kirilchuk, please. We have 31 amendments, let's vote it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u34	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! In fact, we stopped halfway there yesterday in connection with the fact that the regular time was running out and the session was closed. The question is important and very difficult. The fact is that all the amendments made by the President are organized by a working group created by the Chief of the Supreme Council by its 87 amendments. 18 of them included a working group whose decision was supported by a budget committee. The rest was rejected. But I want to say something else. Can this bill, or Codex, be improved? Sure. I think that a lot of people don't want to take away what is an alternative bill that was submitted to the second reading, according to Yanukovic's signatures, Pecklesenka, where 95 percent of what is in the code matches those proposals. There are observations in the factions of Communists that could also be worked out and counted. So, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I propose that we take into account those who are considered presidents to return this bill to the committee for further elaboration. And for the next plenary week, re-enter the hall to see it better, and overcome the veto on the President's proposals that are not supported by either MPs or factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u35	Dear colleagues, let's follow procedure. The 31st Amendment of the President of Ukraine, it's given to you. Is there no need to discuss it? I am voting on the 31st amendment by the President of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u36	It's rejected. [[10:39:19]] For-28 Correction not supported. Amendment 32 of the President of Ukraine is given to you. Do you mind if I put her to the vote? I'm betting on the president's 32th amendment, and the committee rejected it. At the same time, I am voting in favour of the amendment by the President of Ukraine. [[10:39:51]] For-27 Correction not supported. Amendment number 33. I would like to vote in favour of Amendment 33 of the President of Ukraine. [[10:40:13]] For-24 No correction supported. A similar amendment to 34 of the President of Ukraine was rejected by the committee. I would like to vote in favour of Amendment 34. [[10:40:40]] For 20 Not supported. I am putting the amendment to the vote of 35 President of Ukraine. [[10:41:01]] For-19 Not supported. I'm betting on the vote on the 36th President of Ukraine. The committee turned her down. [[10:41:21]] For-25 No decision taken. I'm betting on the vote on amendment number 37 of the President of Ukraine. The committee also rejected her. [[10:41:40]] For-30 No correction supported. I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 38 of the President of Ukraine. The committee also rejected her. [[10:42:01]] For-32 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 39 of the President of Ukraine. The committee also rejected her. [[10:42:23]] For-27 No decision taken. I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 40 of the President of Ukraine, and the committee rejected it. [[10:42:44]] For-27 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 41 of the President of Ukraine. [[10:43:04]] For-28 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on the vote on correction of 42 President of Ukraine. [[10:43:23]] For-24 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 43 of the President of Ukraine. [[10:43:42]] For-25 No, no, no, no, no, no, no. I'm putting to the vote Amendment 44 of the President of Ukraine. [[10:44:02]] For-23 No decision taken. I'm putting to the vote Amendment 45 of the President of Ukraine. [[10:44:22]] For-23 Not accepted. I propose to make a determination regarding amendment 46 of the President of Ukraine. [[10:44:40]] For-21 Not accepted. I'm putting to the vote Amendment 47 by the President of Ukraine. [[10:45:00]] For-23 Not accepted. I'm also betting on the vote of Amendment 48 of the President of Ukraine. [[10:45:18]] For-25 Decision taken. I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 49 of the President of Ukraine. [[10:45:36]] For-24 49 amendments are not accepted either. I'm putting to the vote amendment 50 by the President of Ukraine. [[10:45:57]] For-23 The decision is not taken. I bet on the vote of amendment 51.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u37	It's counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u38	Amendment 51 counted. Don't you have to vote her?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u39	You don't have to.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u40	No objections? Are you insisting? May I have your attention, Your Honor?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u41	Please support 51st.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u42	I put to the vote Amendment No. 51 of the President of Ukraine. It is counted, but since there is an insistence on MPs, it should be put to the vote. Please prepare for the vote. Yes, vote on amendment 51, please vote. [[10:46:53]] For a hundred and No support was found for the amendment, or it is being rejected. Amendment 52 of the President of Ukraine. I'd like to make up my mind. [[10:47:17]] For 20 No correction supported. Amendment No. 53 of the President of Ukraine. [[10:47:36]] For 20 Correction not supported. Amendment 54 of the President of Ukraine. I'd like to make up my mind. [[10:47:56]] For-19 The decision is not taken. Amendment number 55. Please determine by vote. [[10:48:15.]] For-21 No, no, no, no, no, no, no. Amendment 58 of the President of Ukraine. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:48:37]] For-19 The decision is not taken. 58 amendments not accepted. Amendment number 59. I'd like to make up my mind. [[10:49:01]] For the 17th. The decision is not taken. No, no, no, no, no, no, no. 60 Amendment by the President of Ukraine. [[10:49:21]] For 20 The decision is not taken. 61 Amendment by the President of Ukraine. The committee turned it down. I would like to vote in favour of this amendment. [[10:49:42]] For-21 The decision is not taken. 62 revisions. I'm betting on the vote on this amendment. The committee turned it down. [[10:50:03]] For 20 The decision is not taken. Amendment number 68. I would like to vote in favour of this amendment. [[10:50:22]] For 20 The decision is not taken. Amendment number 69. The committee turned it down. I would like to vote in favour of this amendment. [[10:50:47.]] For 20 The decision is not taken. Correction not supported. Amendment number 69. I would like to vote in favour of this amendment. [[10:51:08]] For the 18th. The decision is not taken. I'm putting 70 amendments to the vote. [[10:51:27]] For-19 The decision is not taken. I'll bet the vote on Amendment 71. [[10:51:44]] For 20 The decision is not taken. I'm putting to the vote Amendment No. 72. [[10:52:03]] For 20 The decision is not taken. Amendment 73 shall be put to the vote. [[10:52:21]] For-21 The decision is not taken. Number 74 shall be applied to the vote. [[10:52:39]] For-19 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on a vote of 75. [[10:52:58]] For-21 The decision is not taken. Amendment 76 shall be put to the vote. [[10:53:19]] For 20 No, no, no, no, no, no, no. I'll bet the vote on Amendment 77. [[10:53:35]] For-23 The decision is not taken. Amendment 78 of the President of Ukraine is put to the vote. The committee turned it down. I'll bet you a vote of support. [[10:53:54]] For-23 The decision is not taken. Amendment 79 shall be put to the vote. The committee turned it down. I would like to vote in favour of this amendment. [[10:54:16]] For-21 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 80 of the President of Ukraine. [[10:54:37]] For 20 The decision is not taken. Amendment 81 of the President of Ukraine shall be put to the vote. [[10:54:57]] For 20 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 82 of the President of Ukraine. [[10:55:16]] For 20 The decision is not taken. I'm putting to the vote amendment number 83 of the President of Ukraine. [[10:55:36]] For-21 The amendment is rejected, that is, not accepted. I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 84. [[10:55:57]] For-23 No, no, no, no, no, no, no. I'm putting to the vote Amendment 85. I'd like to make up my mind. [[10:56:17]] For-22. The decision is not taken. I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 86 of the President of Ukraine. [[10:56:37]] For-24 The decision is not taken. Amendment 87. I now vote in favour of this amendment. The committee turned her down. [[10:57:03]] For-23 The decision is not taken. Yes, please, Eugene Ivanovich. A microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u43	Regulation. The Committee on Budgetary Questions requests, in accordance with the provisions of article 8 of the Rules of the Supreme Council, article 135 of the Rules of Procedure, which the Supreme Council has not decided upon after reconsideration, the law may be directed to the Main Committee. I propose to put to the vote the matter of sending the bill to the Committee on the Budget for Reprocessing and Re-entering. The document is important, the intention of the people to fix it is, the wish is, the working group you created, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, in working condition, I think we can reenter the hall in the next plenary week. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u44	Dear colleagues! Please, one minute from each faction, let's make a point. Alexander Lavrinovich, please. From each faction to 1 minute. And let's move on to making a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u45	Dear colleagues, we now have a situation where the Supreme Council of Ukraine has passed the law under which the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has signed. The President of Ukraine, according to his constitutional rights, made his remarks to this law. The Supreme Council of Ukraine did not support any remarks made by the President. So we now have a law signed by the Head of the Supreme Council, which she originally approved. We are now obliged, in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine, to ask questions about overcoming the veto of the President of Ukraine. And if the veto is not overtaken, the law is annulled.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u46	One minute! Pavel Žebrovsky, faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u47	In fact, you don't know how to do it. The regulation provides that the amendments are not accepted – we are overtaken by the veto. If someone offers to read again, only after the veto vote. And today's procedure should be to ask questions about the veto; if there are no votes and there are proposals for recasts, please let them vote. But another procedure -- to put it into processing immediately -- we do not have the right under the Rules to do so. And I'd like us to follow the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u48	Sergei Sas, please. It's a BUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u49	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I wanted to draw your attention to the legal position of the Constitutional Court, which is set out in its decision of 7 July 1998, on the order of voting and the re-examination of laws with the President's proposals. And it states: “The veto applied by the President of Ukraine regarding the adopted law has its legal effect in canceling the final results of the vote for it and opening the procedure for its re-examination in the Supreme Council, which has the right to consider or disregard the President’s proposals for legislation and to adopt it again. So we have a right today with the bill, not with the law. And the next is if the Supreme Council is listed right now by rejecting the President's proposals or.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u50	Please don't yell at the microphone a little bit so you can understand what you're saying. Sasu microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u51	I'm calling, you put the phone down. Thank you. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I repeat: the decision of the Constitutional Court clearly states that the legal effect of the exercise by the President of the veto is the annulment of the latest results for the law as a whole. So we have a right in this case, not with the law, but with the bill. Further, the decision of the Constitutional Court states that if the Supreme Council, by rejecting or taking fully into account the President's proposals, initiates its proposals to a law that is not provided for by the President's proposals, the amended law falls within the scope of part two of the 94th article of the Constitution, which allows the President to veto again. Thus, in this context, the position of part eight of Rule 135, which states that as such, is absolutely correct. where, in particular, I quote, according to a decision of the Supreme Council not adopted after a re-examination, the law may be directed towards further work.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u52	Let me finish. What's it like?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u53	He's headed to a committee that, in a 30-day period, should take him back to the Supreme Council for consideration. So I totally agree with my colleagues who say we have to overcome the veto. Indeed, it is. We need to put the veto to a vote. If the veto is not overtaken, I propose a proposal that is to be put to the vote in accordance with part eight of Article 135 for the submission of the bill to the Main Committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u54	Yes, please, Alexander Pecklushenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u55	Dear colleagues! There is not a single person here who does not wish to amend the budget code. But we ask, do we need a new budget code or do we need a budget code that is needed by the regions today? Of course, we supported the changes in the Budget Code to our opponents by making 14 proposals, 8 were taken into account, four of the main ones were not taken into account, and there is a problem. We have repeatedly asked that what is hampering the budgetary process today be removed, namely, the administration of 12,000 budgets. You are making this budget code in the name of one, in order to fight the electoral campaign. We will not allow this to happen if you have not yet begun to give birth to the 2010 budget without the Budget Code. That's why we're telling you that the Budget Code and the horses don't change in transit! The budget code will be introduced, a new budget code.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u56	I'm asking you to exchange your thoughts from the factions, calm down. Exchanges were made of factions, from the Communist factions Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk. Calm down!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u57	Thank you, Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues! Let us calm down because each one tells his own truth, and the truth is one and is recorded in the Rules, which is quoted in part by a colleague named Sass. Vladimir Mikhajlovich, please, the Rules which have already been cited here are 135 articles there, so to speak, are paragraphs seven and eight that relate to our situation. The seventh paragraph says that if the Supreme Council rejects the President's proposal completely during the re-examination, it has to adopt this law in general, no less than two thirds of the vote. And the eighth -- that is, we really have to veto. If the veto fails, then the eighth point is that the decision of the Supreme Council is not taken and it will not be adopted, not adopted after a review of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u58	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u59	It could be aimed at reprocessing. And after further processing, if the law doesn't get 226 votes back in the new edition with which we're going to send him to the President's signature, and the President will have a hundred percent right to veto if he wants, and a new editorial, then he'll be regarded as rejected. That's why two votes: the first is to beat the veto. If there is no veto, the committee's proposal is to send for work. And it will be absolutely according to the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u60	Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u61	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs! It's a very simple situation. Everyone understands that the Budget Code is needed, and without it we cannot continue to make progress on the way to the adoption of the State Budget. First position. Second position. The local authorities in the regions that everyone is so concerned about are waiting for the Budget Code, because without it, they can't actually predict, predict and calculate the budgetary situation in general, in the socio-economic sphere. The question is, what do we need now, to bury the problem, and then never come back to it? Is it really a Codex Codex that we can work out and bring it into line, let's say, with the optimal version that the Supreme Council can actually produce? Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I think the optimal option is going to work. This option has to set everybody up, it's right.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u62	Dear colleagues! We exchanged thoughts. Now let's go to remove any contradictions, that is, according to the Rules. It will now be put to the vote with the first proposal to defeat the President's veto on this bill. If the veto is over, it will be the final decision. In the event that I fail to overcome the veto, I will put to the vote in accordance with Article 135, paragraph 8, on the way to the Main Committee within 30 days. But if this decision is not supported, the bill will be rejected. In the case of further processing, if a decision is taken to redraft after consideration by the Supreme Council, if it is not approved, it will also be regarded as rejected. Do you understand the offer? I am voting on the President's veto for the Ukrainian Act on amending the Ukrainian Budget Code. [[new editor]] [[Registration number 2709]] Overcoming the veto. [[11:09:04]] For-195 The decision is not taken. Now, pay attention, fellows of honor! In accordance with article 135, paragraph 8 of the Supreme Council’s Rules of Procedure, I am voting on the proposal to refer this law to the Main Committee, no later than 30 days. [[11:09:45]] For 228 Decision taken. Thank you. The factions, please. Region Party – 0, Timoshenko Yulia Block – 152, Our Ukraine-People's Self-Defense – 29, Communists - 27, Litvina Block – 20. Dear colleagues, let us turn to the following questions. I ask, fellow believers, that we have many questions so that we will consider the following procedure. I'd like to support this proposal. I'd like to put this motion to the vote, please. [[11:10:41]] For-189 Decision taken. As respectable colleagues, we need to make decisions on the issues under discussion. This is the draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on Health Reform and Health Insurance in Ukraine, registration number 4597. [[completed project]] Who's it gonna be? Deputy Head of the Committee, National Deputy Korge, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u63	The Honorable Presidium! Dear National Deputies! On May 20th of this year, our committee held parliamentary hearings on the theme “Health reform routes and health insurance in Ukraine”. Primarily, the participants in the hearing noted the disastrous situation in Ukraine’s health system. I'll just give you a few digits. I would like to say that per capita, security spending in our country is 60 times smaller than in the United States, 30 to 40 times less than in the European Union and 7 to 12 times less than even in the SND countries. Mainly, participants noted these major funding problems and the structure of these expenses, and expressed support for the need for reform, urgent reform of the health financing system, and the introduction of compulsory health insurance. As a result of the hearings, a draft decision of the Supreme Council and a recommendation of hearings were launched by the Committee. On June 4, on Parliament's recommendation, the draft Ordinance and the Recommendation were adopted as a basis. In accordance with the Ukrainian Supreme Council’s Rules and in the course of two weeks, 19 comments and suggestions were submitted to our committee. One of them is a proposal made by the People’s Deputy Dry, spoken orally on the first review of the project. In view of this observation, a number of amendments have been made to exclude the names of specific bills from the text. For the same reason, we did not take into account in the final edition two proposals made by law enforcement entities, which also referred to names. A number of amendments were made on the recommendation of the Supreme Council’s Chief Legal Office, which resulted in 16 amendments and proposals being taken into account, and 3 rejected, 7 comments were made to members of the Committee on Social Policy and 12 members of our parliamentary profiling committee. Two of them aren't counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u64	Please, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u65	Two unaccounted for amendments related to the names of specific bills. The third was rejected and applied to the Ministry of Health’s Office. We've actually taken that into account. The Ministry of Health has taken part in the development of the final edition. I therefore ask for a draft decision from the Supreme Council of Ukraine to approve the Parliamentary Hearing Recommendation on the subject “Health Reform and Health Insurance in Ukraine” for approval in general. No comments from the Chief Legal Authority. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u66	Yes. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we're only going after the amendments now. Let's do this, we've already worked on this document. Amendment number six, which. I'll stop at the rejected amendments. People’s deputies Papiew, Shevchuk, Suhi, Vizyewski insist? Jaroslav Suhi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u67	Dear colleagues! Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I ask you to return to Amendment 4, it is counted. I ask you to put her to the vote. The bill is entitled “Reforming, Funding the Health Care System and Establishing Compulsory Health Insurance in Ukraine”. [[on financing reform]] In nature, there is no “medical insurance” – there is a “national compulsory social insurance” as the fifth type of public compulsory social insurance. Therefore, this amendment must be voted on. You can't recommend hearings to give preference to one bill, it's wrong. Thus, in its amendment 6 Papiew, Shevchuk, Suhi, and Vyezivski suggest: If we are writing about a single bill, then please list all the bills that today relate to the introduction of a mandatory national social health insurance. By the way, that's the question of the State Economic Program.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u68	Are you insisting on voting? Microphone, please, Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u69	That's the question of the state. Ukraine's economic, social development for 2010, I propose amendment number 4 of the bachelor vote. [[Number 5140]] That's what it says!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u70	Well, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u71	Well, we don't give preference to any law. We understand that there may be a unified bill in the end. But when we consult with the Legal Chief Executive, we come up with such formulations. That is why I voted in favour of the entire parliamentary committee, and I would like to take this opinion into account in the final vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u72	Thank you. Please, Mikola Tomenko. Now we put her to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u73	Dear colleagues! I fully support Jaroslav Suhigo. But for the second time, perhaps as a compromise we can make here, not a bill, but a consideration of laws on health reform. So it will not be clear that we respect Mrs. Bacheva, but there are other and serious bills. So once we've taken it off, we'll take it off and we'll look at all the bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u74	Dear colleagues! In response to the insistence of the national deputy Jaroslav Suhhogo and the corresponding regulation, I am voting on Amendment 4, which is supported by the committee. And the Supreme Council of Ukraine needs to support or not support this amendment. I bet on the vote of Amendment 4 and please vote. [[11:17:27]] For a hundred and No correction supported. Yeah, let's move on. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to calm down, because we're not going to make a proper decision for the second or third time. Now the number 5 amendment of the People's Deputy Dry. It's counted, yeah. Are you insisting on her? Amendment number six. You insist on it. One minute, Jaroslav Suhogo's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u75	Vladimir Mikhajlovich, so that I don't cause any quarrels or glazing here, I suggest and ask for a session hall, support the offer of Mikli Tomenko. Let us write: “the laws relating to both the reform of the health system and the introduction of health insurance”. There are many of them now and there will be, and the government has already registered. There can be no preference for one bill. That's bullshit!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u76	Ladies and gentlemen. Yuri Carmazin. And now we're going to vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u77	Yuri Carmazin "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! We're talking about the conclusions, the recommendations of the parliamentary hearings that have taken place. During parliamentary hearings, the MPs, after assessing everything that was going on, gave priority to the draft Law on Health Finance and Compulsory Social Health Insurance in Ukraine. The question arises. Can Alternatives Be Considered? Yeah. Whatever. But the MPs thought so. So there's nothing wrong with that if it's written like that. He needs to be considered and stopped in the mob during insurance. We have to stop this. If they can't stop the Security Service, the DA's office, the M.E.S., then we have to shut down the legislation. So I think the first reading is not bad. It encourages us to consider that bill, which has been hanging for a long time. That's how I get out of this.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u78	Thank you. Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u79	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Oleg Zarubinsky “Block of Lithuania”. Dear Yuri Anatolyovich! There was no preference during parliamentary hearings for any bill. I was present from "a" to "me" at these hearings, and I remember it well. You don't have to fool MPs. Therefore, honourable colleagues, realizing that the issue of medical, medical insurance is a question that they want or, let's say, to involve a number of interested persons in the circulation of their structures, understanding that each bill has a pragmatic and sometimes mercantile component, observations and suggestions of the Dry One. It is then that we do not give preferences and bonuses to any interested subject of the legislative initiative. Because interest is not a national one, but rather a pragmatic, mercantile one. I propose that all laws be taken into account as proposed by the Suhi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u80	Dear National Deputies! Please, let's calm down and make up for the amendment that Michael Tomenko proposed. To write, not a “legislative” but “legislatives”. And let's make clear what the bill is about. I put this amendment to the vote and ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u81	Dear colleagues, I call for support. We are dealing with a very important social issue. Please pay attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u82	Please vote. [[11:21:21]] For-286 Decision taken. So the 6 amendment, it goes into the 4 amendment, and we take it down. Next amendment number 12. [[Papiev, Shevchuk, Suhi, Viziewski]] Are you insisting on her? Who insists on the 6th Amendment? No, it's not. Dear colleagues, all other amendments are included. The committee suggests that we accept the second reading as a determination as a whole. Take it off the vote. What question? Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u83	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! Please note that in the paragraphs in several paragraphs where the Cabinet of Ministers is assigned, this is paragraph 4, this is paragraph 8. By September 1, 2009, the Supreme Council was commissioned to review the approval of the National Programme for the Development of Primary Medical Care. And the other one. This is a suggestion for determining the sources and the extent of contributions to compulsory health insurance. But September 1st was a long time ago. We need to make changes here, adjustments. Otherwise, Vladimir Mikhailovich, we will return to the list of documents that have been voted on, but where changes should be made. I'd like to ask the committee head to identify the date, name it. I think this date should be called, well, let's say it's November 10th or 5, I don't know what time it is. And let the committee head name that date. But it needs to be changed around the text right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u84	Dear colleagues, I suggest you do so. The right point is we're delayed in adopting this bill. Write: within a month from the moment it becomes effective and all. Is there no objection? The committee doesn't mind? Jaroslav Suhi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u85	Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! For reasons of vote, I call on the session room to support these recommendations, and please accept that a joint bill of the authors' group has now been drafted, where all the bills have been drafted into a single and rational grain of all the bills, including one that has been tried to make something of a priority. [[in alphabetical order: Akimova, Bachevieva, Grigorovich and other Ukrainian national deputies]] Therefore, I hope that common sense will soon prevail, and at least on the first reading, we will adopt the Law on the Establishment of a National Compulsory Social Health Insurance as the fifth type of compulsory social insurance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u86	Mr. Jaroslav, apart from the government, no national development programme will prepare any financial indicators. They have to be handled by the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u87	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's say that we make decisions, we don't hold parliamentary hearings. Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u88	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I want to use this minute to actually express the faction's position on the basis of the vote. These recommendations rightly stress that the level of health care for the population in Ukraine is the worst among all European states. Why is he the worst? Because the State does not care about health care at all. At the time, we know that in Soviet times it was one of the best levels. We definitely cannot agree with these recommendations, which see the way out in just one — compulsory health insurance. In our circumstances, this will make the health situation even worse. Instead of raising funding, instead of raising wages, instead of cutting and closing hospitals that are, we're putting in an extra wage for the new structure. It's a lobbyist project.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u89	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u90	Once again, this is a lobbyist project that wants to create another kind of insurance that has absolutely nothing to do with improving medicine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u91	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u92	I call on the deputies not.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u93	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u94	With all due respect to you, I would like to point out that this is a 5-percent level.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u95	Microphone, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u96	and a step-by-step increase in wages, seniority allowances and public health funding, at least 5 percent of GDP. Although I would like to remind you that in Europe it is at least 8 to 10 percent.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u97	Lilia Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u98	So the state element is absolutely predictable here, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u99	Lilia Grigorovitch, and we will vote. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u100	Lilia Grigorovich is Secretary of the Health Committee. The honourable national deputies, the concluding part of the draft decision that I propose to support, really points to what our people are talking about. After the social standards of unemployment, that's the second question that concerns people. That's why we held parliamentary hearings. At the same time, I wouldn't want to manipulate this important decision-making project to change what can't be changed. We don't have to go back to the Kulikov battle or the Mesozoic era. Semashko’s health system was optimal in its planned economy. We live in a market economy today, it's recognized by the whole world. And socio-economic relations have changed. So, my dears, the health system of Semashko is just like the person who's sitting there, donating it, in a fraction, and putting the wake on the top. We should not think about what happened, because Grandma will not be a girl back, but we should think about what she is about our people. And I propose to support the entire draft of the decree, not play on.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, the revisions included, the project has been completed. The committee suggests that it be accepted in the second reading as a whole. I ask you, Your Honor, to prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal for a second-reading committee, and in general on Parliamentary hearing recommendations on the subject of "Health Reform and Health Insurance in Ukraine" taking into account the amendment that the Supreme Council of Ukraine has supported. [[Registration number 4597]] Please vote. [[11:28:46]] For 343 I'll take the order. Thank you. A draft regulation on the annual report of the Human Rights Commissioner of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the status of respect for and protection of human rights and freedoms in Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[project completed]] The rapporteur is Pavelenko Eduardo Ivanovich, head of the Subcommittee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u102	Dear National Deputies! On June 24, the Supreme Council of Ukraine heard the annual report of the Commissioner for Human Rights on the status of respect for and protection of human and civil rights and freedoms in Ukraine. In accordance with article 18 of the Ukrainian Law “On the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine of Human Rights, ” the Supreme Council adopts the Order on the Report of the Commissioner. A draft of such a decision by the deputies, Oleg Zarubinsky and Edward Pavelnck, was adopted on the basis of our committee’s mandate to work on it, taking into account the proposals and observations made by the subject of the legislative initiative. On July 8, the committee discussed the project. One amendment was made to that amendment by the People's Deputy, Elena Bondarenko. In a comparative table, this amendment is. By five votes to three, the committee voted in favour of the draft decision, taking into account the amendment. However, as the author of the draft decision. I consider it necessary to note that the substance of this amendment is contrary to article 85, paragraph 17, of the Constitution of Ukraine, according to which listening to the Commissioner’s report belongs to the exclusive powers of the Supreme Council, which also decides to include the matter in the agenda of the session. With regard to the contents of the report, all those present at that time at the session had the opportunity to make sure that the report provided specific examples of the conducts carried out by the Commissioner during the previous and current years of the most up - to - date issues of human rights enforcement in Ukraine. With regard to the printed analytics distributed to the Ukrainian National Deputies for the preceding reports, they complete the Commissioner’s report. Their content and period of analysis are not regulated by valid legislation and is the prerogative of the Commissioner for Human Rights. These materials may not even be useful. It is therefore absurd to include comments on these materials in the determination. As the author of the project.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u103	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u104	to the honourable people's deputies to vote in favour of the ruling without an incorrect amendment as a whole. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u105	Please, Elena Bondarenko's microphone. Elena Bondarenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u106	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I will speak not only on my own behalf as the author of the amendment, but on behalf of our faction. I think that voting for this amendment will show how much in this room there are national MPs with a sense of respect for the higher legislative body of Ukraine and for themselves as its representatives. The report, which is an annual one, has not been given for several years. The report should follow up on the results of the tests carried out during the year, and it refers, say, to the elections of 2006 or 2007. Finally, it is unacceptable to report on the day of the consideration of the matter. By the way, if the honourable MPs got it in time, they would probably see how much open self-piarity and politicization in this report -- and we'd be looking at it differently. Thank you. And I insist on support.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u107	Dear colleagues, since this is not a discussion, I now ask everyone to calm down. There is a committee decision to take account of the amendment. But together with the insistence, we are forced to put to the vote confirmation of this amendment. The content of this correction is known to you. He has this point, I will read again: “To draw the attention of the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine from human rights to the need for continued compliance with the requirements of the Ukrainian Law on the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights”, in particular article 18 on the deadlines for the submission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's annual report on the status of respect for and protection of human rights and freedoms, as well as the content of the report on violations of human rights and freedoms and of citizens that took place during the year, and the results of the checks carried out during the year. So, please, Your Honor, attention, I'm putting to the vote a motion for support for amendment number one of Ukraine's national deputies, Helen Bondarenko. Please vote. Please vote. The vote is coming. [[11:33:58]] For-170. Correction not supported. I therefore put to the vote a draft decree to approve it as a whole without this amendment. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I am voting on a draft ruling from one point: “The annual report on the state of respect for and protection of human rights submitted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights of Karpachov Nina Ivanovna is presented by the Commissioner for Human Rights.” Dear colleagues, we must perform this function. Taking this proposal into account, I put it to a vote. Please vote on the draft regulation as a whole. [[11:34:49]] For 205 The decision is not taken, the decision is rejected. Dear colleagues, according to. Nina Ivanovna, please. The Supreme Council of Ukraine is to take note. Please, Nina Ivanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u108	Dear National Deputies! On June 24, I presented the report and the materials to this report, but in order to print it in the Voice of Ukraine, it is necessary to publish it. The report itself has long been sent. We waited four months for you to consider the whole decision that was taken on the basis of that decision. Unfortunately, BUT then gave zero votes, and now it's a provocation, which is just an insult to the entire Supreme Council. This is helping you with the materials provided by the Ombudsman. And I presented the report during, and unfortunately, the MP wasn't even in this room. I'm asking you to put it again now, because there can't be a printed statement by the Ombudsman, if you don't vote in favour of the ruling, you have to take it for granted. I'm simply asking you, out of respect for human rights and for those who want to have information other than the national MPs, to vote now on a decision that is now being taken. Period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u109	Victor Terrence, Olena Bondarenko. Dear colleagues! We don't have a discussion. Please. On what grounds? A Rejected Decision? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u110	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! First of all, I was chosen here by the report by Pauline, who spoke his point of view, not the point of view of the committee. That is, the committee's meeting said that the Commissioner, like the President of the country and any citizen, should carry out the law himself. Thus, the Authorized Law did not. Under the 18th article of the Law concerning the Authorized Commissioner, this was not the case. On the other hand, the Commissioner’s report should address the maintenance of human rights and freedoms rather than give political assessments. And here's the thing that Nina Ivanovna's showing is, let's say, political evaluations are being made, for example, a statement by the Party of Regions about Ukraine's insignificance to join NATO and that sort of thing. Therefore, the Supreme Council, if it respects itself, should indicate to anyone -- whether the President of Ukraine or the Commissioner for Human Rights -- the need to comply with the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u111	Olena Bondarenko, then Gennady Samofalov. And we'll keep moving.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u112	Dear colleagues! I would suggest that we vote on the amendment and, together with the amendment, vote on it. Without amendment, our faction will not return to this question.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u113	Thank you. Gennady Samofal.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u114	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I think we are considering today the issue that shows the face of our State in the international arena. It's a topic that's important to everyone today. I don't think everyone's getting into this today. I therefore propose that we revert to this issue and re-vote it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u115	Dear national MPs, distinguished colleagues, may I have your attention? We may dislike, may not like, the Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, but it is an institution of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And we heard the report back in June, but we didn't take the decision, and it's a negative for the great Supreme Council of Ukraine. So let's do it this way. I'm asking you to support me, return to the draft ruling. Then we will vote on the amendment that was proposed, and then we will finally vote on the document. Let's make a decision. And Nina John Carpathian’s reasoning was weighty. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the return to the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine decree. [[Registration number 4614]] Please vote. On returning to the consideration of the draft decision. I've proposed and voted for and amended this. Why don't we vote, dear colleagues? [[11:39:09]] For the 220. I would like to reiterate my return to the draft decision of the Supreme Council. Please, let's not turn the Supreme Council of Ukraine into a treasury, dear colleagues. Please vote. [[11:39:43]] For 216 The decision is not taken. By factions, please, the Party of the Regions – 168, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko” – 0, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” – 9, Communists – 27, “Club of Lithuania” – 11, non-fractional – 1. Please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, I can put a vote on the return to consideration of this amendment, if you have the willpower, and if you don't, we won't put it any further. You don't? No, it's all right then. Dear colleagues, please note that the draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on “On the Status of Justice in Ukraine” is under consideration. [[Registration number 4844]] The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Justice's subcommittee, Dmitry Yuriovich Špenov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u116	Dear colleagues, Parliamentary hearings were held on 18 March this year on “The state of justice in Ukraine”. Representatives of all branches of government and all political forces participated. As a result of the hearings of the Committee on Justice, all interventions were considered, as well as written proposals submitted to the Committee. On 8 July, the draft recommendations were considered by the Justice Committee at its meeting and decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt a general and general decision to endorse the Recommendations. The draft regulation prepared by the Committee and the accompanying text are distributed to the deputies. The recommendations highlighted the main issues that the participants considered to be negative in terms of justice to date and the specific recommendations proposed by the authorities. I would like to point out that the draft Recommendations did not explicitly include discussion proposals from various political forces so as not to create a conflict situation at the approval stage of the recommendations. In order to resolve such issues, it is proposed that the draft Laws 0916 and 0917 on the judiciary and status of judges be reconsidered before the adoption of the second reading. To that end, it is proposed that the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with article 50 of the Rules, decide on a one-time deviation from the legislative procedure on these bills. In view of the above, as well as the decision of the Committee on Justice of 8 July 2009, I would like to ask you to adopt, as a whole, a decision approving the Recommendations of Parliamentary Hearings on the Status of Justice of Ukraine. [[Registration number 4844]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u117	Dear colleagues, I'll just read you, that's number three. I think it's worth removing. He said: “Decision of a one-time deviation from the second reading of the Bills in accordance with 50 of the Rules of the Supreme Council with a view to taking into account the proposals and amendments to these Bills, as a result of the parliamentary hearings held on 18 March 2009 on ‘The state of justice in Ukraine’. [[Registration number 0916, 0917]] We have people who have the right: a deputy, the Cabinet of Ministers, to make these proposals. And if they're filed for second reading at the signatures of the National Deputies, that's the committee's right. And obviously it would have been worth taking into account. I would also like to consider such an offer. Sergey Petrovich Headate, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u118	Vladimir Mikhailovich, dear Mr. Head! This is in the information plan, and I want to report that the next plenary session of the Venice Commission in December is about to discuss a draft conclusion on the bill for judicial reform. That is why I would like Parliament to react to the conclusion of the Venice Commission to some extent, because it is a lengthy process and I think that it is necessary not only to ensure that the laws of the Constitution of Ukraine are in conformity with the European standards of reform that we are implementing. If he was not accepted, there is no Marina Ivanovna Stavniczuk, she is a member of the commission, if he was not accepted in October, this conclusion will be accepted in December.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u119	Please, Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u120	Dear colleagues! I wanted to support Vladimir Mikhailovich and remind him that I had the privilege of conducting these parliamentary hearings and should say that there is an element of inadequacy here, to say the least. Since not even two diametrically opposite approaches were expressed during the discussion, such as the Sudoku Bill, but a number of different approaches to settling matters with the Ukrainian judiciary. So I don't want to criticize the committee, because then he offered me six hours to hold a meeting, and he wrote down all the six hours that he gave. Well, we haven't had one of those in the Parliamentary Hearings Recommendations, so we've made a commitment to deviate once and for all from the procedure and adopt a bill that no one has ever seen before. So I firmly object to the third point referred to by Vladimir Mikhailovich. The committee will work, prepare the law, make the decision committee, bring it to the Supreme Council, we'll look at it, and we'll think about what to do. And it's imperative to determine what we're going to vote for without seeing a bill that's so resonant in Ukrainian society, in the law enforcement system, it would be wrong. That's why I'm here to rule out paragraph 3 of the Recommendations.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u121	Adam Martinyuk. Who raises their hands, I can't see? Schustik. And then Shustik.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u122	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u123	Let's do one at a time, my dear fellows, this is already a discussion. Someone from the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u124	Dear colleagues! We need to radically change the system of preparing Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations. I also participated in these parliamentary hearings and took part in them. I've read these recommendations, which are given by the participants in what seems to be parliamentary hearings -- they're far from ambiguous. Not everyone thought so, I'd say more precisely, that the vast majority of the participants in the parliamentary hearings held the opposite view than those recommendations. So on this subject and on the previous subject and in general, let's put in a rule, and we'll probably even write in the Rules that every parliamentary hearing ends with the adoption of the Recommendations, so that it's their agreement and opinion. And then the Supreme Council will continue to approve them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u125	People's deputy Shustik. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u126	Olena Shustik, Timoshenko Street. Our faction will not support the recommendation data project for many reasons. The first is that, in fact, this is not the point of all the factions represented in Parliament, nor is it the summation of the thoughts that were expressed during parliamentary hearings. Dear Volodymyr Mihajlovich, have made written proposals at the time of consideration of these recommendations to the committee only a faction of the Yulia Timoshenko Block, the Supreme Court and the Commissioner for Human Affairs. Most of the proposals were not included. The faction of the Communists of Ukraine, the faction of the Lithuanian Block, the faction of the Party of the Regions, did not make any suggestions. Therefore, we cannot believe that this document is a document of the Ukrainian Parliament at all. With regard to paragraph 3, it can be said that these two bills on the judiciary and the status of judges were adopted by the dissolved Parliament. So they're not acceptable and they're not legitimately accepted in the first reading. Therefore, this paragraph should be deleted clearly and the Recommendations should be sent for further processing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u127	Mikhailo Chechetov, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u128	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, well, it is not clear what the speaker is saying when he says that if the people's MP there or the faction did not comment or propose a bill or order, then the faction did not work, or maybe the faction agreed with the original version and we add nothing. So it's just absurd to ask a question on such a plane that 3 factions that they didn't work. They agree with the draft regulation that exists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u129	Dear colleagues! Here's the deal. If you don't mind putting it to a vote for adoption as a basis with the exception of paragraph 3 with the corresponding change in numbering after we vote as a basis and there are no objections to MPs, we'll put it to a vote for adoption as a whole. Is there no objection? But let's at least take the first step so that we can continue to work on this document. That is why I am putting to the vote the proposal, please note, on the basis of the draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the recommendation of parliamentary hearings on the topic “On the state of justice in Ukraine” with the deletion of paragraph 3 and the corresponding modification of the draft ruling. [[Registration number 4844]] Please vote. Based on the base. [[11:49:41]] For-167 The decision is not taken. I'm putting it to a vote. I'm asking for your attention. We have to vote because otherwise the draft recommendations will be rejected. I am voting for the re-reading of the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Resolution on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on “On the Status of Justice in Ukraine”. [[Registration number 4844]] Please vote. Please vote. Let's do it again. [[11:50:25]] For 175 The decision is not taken. The draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine “Recommendations of Parliamentary Hearings on the Status of Justice in Ukraine” has been rejected. Dear colleagues, I ask you to consider one more question: This is the bill of parliamentary hearings on the theme “The Basic Principles of Stability. The principles of Ukraine's continued development for 2010-2020" December 9, 2009. [[Excuse me.]] The rapporteur is Head of the Committee on Science and Education, Vladimir Ivanovich Polochalo.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u130	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The holding of parliamentary hearings on Ukraine's Basic Principles for the Permanent Development of 2010-2020 is primarily due to an increase in the number of information challenges and socio-economic issues that are facing today's global economic crisis. This has a significant impact on the situation in Ukraine, affecting the most vulnerable segments of the population. To mitigate their effects, the United Nations recommended that governments develop comprehensive and coordinated action plans. Regrettably, despite substantial theoretical and practical work, Ukraine does not refer to leaders in the formation of a global long - term program of sustainable development. Ukraine's practical participation in all forums is an observer, an offensive role as an observer of our great state. So far, there has not been an official national position towards the global concept of sustainable development and role, and Ukraine's place in this process. An appropriate national strategy has not been adopted, nor has the conceptual framework for the transition to sustainable development been approved. And so today, Ukraine’s sustainable development strategy as a separate subject of state policy is very important. Instead, there are no basic principles and functions in the normative legal base. You know that the committee created a working group of leading professionals in this area under the leadership of the Sgurovsky Academy, which has already prepared a draft of the Basic Principles for Permanent Development. This question was repeatedly considered by the public in Kiev, Kharkiv, the Sumsten, and many other places. There's some work to be done. That is why it is suggested that a continuous development hearing should be held, at which time broad public debates should begin to specify the relevant national policy. The Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt a draft decision and please support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u131	Dear colleagues! What Are the Reasons? No warning? John the Rabbit, microphone, please, someone alone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u132	Dear National Deputies! I think you should support this decision, for whatever reason we already had, was the Supreme Council's decision of February 2003, where the task and the Cabinet of Ministers were to create appropriate structures, develop and submit to our approval a strategy for continuous development. We have parliamentary initiatives, including Landika in this regard. But I'm talking about a specific decision. I think it would be wrong here to assign only a committee on science and education to prepare these parliamentary hearings, so also recommendations. Because it's a constant development, it's a solid action of three of these elements. It's power, it's business and it's public. So the problem with sustainable development is how to integrate into the economic and social environment itself. So this is not enough for an environmental policy committee. Otherwise, it doesn't make any sense. The point is that this is where the focus is on.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u133	Give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u134	In this draft, decisions are made and based solely on science. Science, it's just one segment. And in fact, it has to be about this total integration of the economy, the social and the environmental. And with regard to subjects, this is business, power, and the public. So I think we need to do this with the Committee of Environmental Policy, if you want, even social and economic policy. Otherwise we'll get the document.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u135	Thank you, thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u136	I can answer that and, to some extent, your point is correct. Although the UN Declaration of 92 defines this as the right to development, which must be implemented in such a way as to ensure fair satisfaction with the needs of today's and future generations in the development and environmental fields. But we're talking about science, we're talking about basic principles. That's the first one. And that's why I think that's exactly what the group of our committee is doing under the leadership of Sgurovsky Academy. But if that's the case, if the Committee on Environmental Policy likes to add a draft ruling, there's no problem involving this committee here. And I want to say by addressing all of our colleagues. This problem in many cities, I've called some, I haven't made any remarks, I want to pay attention to how mature and mature that is.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u137	Vladimir Ivanovich, thank you very much. Dear colleagues, under the reduced procedure, can only be speeches “for” and “against”. National MP Ungurian. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u138	Dear Volodymyr Ivanovich! The Yulia Timoshenko faction fully supports the Order on Parliamentary Hearings on Permanent Development in Ukraine. The only thing I'd like to add. Only, literally, two weeks ago, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine created the National Council for Permanent Development under the leadership of the Prime Minister of Ukraine. I believe that these parliamentary hearings are very important for Ukraine, for its harmonious development of economic, environmental and social development, it would be useful to join, if possible, the entire composition of the National Council under the leadership of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u139	Dear colleagues, no objection to putting a draft ruling to the vote? What? Please, there are committees that work, but there are no problems. From the hall. We haven't had the hearing yet. Let's do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u140	There's no objection. Let's connect all the committees. The point is that when these documents are accepted, one minute when the plan is being prepared, John Alexanderovich, when the plan is being prepared and the order is being signed, all committees are entrusted with it. No problem. Dear colleagues, there is no objection to voting on the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings on "On Ukraine's Basic Principles for the Permanent Development of 2010-2020"? [[Registration number 5001]] Please vote. With the participation of the Committee, which is proposed by Ivan Alexandrovich, for God’s sake. [[11:58:01]] For-187 The decision is not taken. The factions? Please. Dear colleagues, attention, factions: Region Party – 1, Block of Timoshenko – 128, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” – 22, Communists – 27, Block of Lithuania – 8, non-fractional – 1. May I have your attention, fellow officers? The Committee on Rules, MPs and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is asking for a ruling, and it is handed down to you. [[Registration number 4713]] Please note, we must vote on this decree. On the Conciliation Board, this issue was agreed upon. I am voting on the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on certain matters of government property management that ensures the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Registration number 4713]] Please vote. [[11:59:08]] For 352 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there's a break. Well, one minute. Well, let's think about it, dear fellows. May I have your attention, please? There's a draft decree for a moratorium on the eviction of creative communities. Perhaps if you did not object, we would have accepted it before the break and then moved on to reviewing the laws? The committee worked on and suggested that it be accepted as a whole. Well, to preserve what belongs to creative communities, the more so that they are now madly signed up for support, the one, the other candidate instead of identifying what the country needs. No objections? I'm voting on a proposal for a committee on acceptance as a basis and as a whole a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the introduction of a moratorium on the eviction of creative communities, creative communities. [[Registration number 4766]] Let's be one thing. I'll bet you a vote. We should accept everything in general — banning evictions. Absolutely, absolutely right. [[12:00:29]] For 338 It's been decided. A break of 30 minutes is announced, up to 12 hours 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u141	Dear colleagues, we continue our morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Listing Property Rights that Are Not Privatized is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 4325]] Reported Deputy Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council, Parashin Sergey Kostinovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u142	Dear National Deputies! The bill proposed to you relates to the adoption of a national decision on the property complex designed to mine uranium ore. To date, the only business that is active is the Eastern mining and enrichment combine of the city of Yellow Waters. This business is included in a list of objects that are not subject to privatization. But in 2005, the combination produced the Novocostantinian Uranium ore genealogy and was based on the creation of a separate State Enterprise, the “Direction”. The New Continuum is the richest species of uranium ore in Europe. If the active stockpiles of the combined coal mine amount to 14,000 tons of uranium, some 100,000 tons are required for part of the Novocostinian lineage. At the same time, DP “Direction” is not yet included in the list of property rights that are not subject to privatization. In connection with the President of Ukraine, a draft law was introduced to the Supreme Council to include this state enterprise in the list of property rights that are not privatized but can be corporate. To be corporate. First, this adoption of this law will ensure the preservation of the uranium crop in the property of the Ukrainian State, and secondly, it will allow the financing of the development of this enterprise by corporateisation and the further sale of part of the shares for investment. That's the kind of support I'm looking for.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u143	Thank you, Sergey Costinovich. Please sit down. Is there a need to discuss? Please, from Bondar Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u144	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies! The Economic Policy Committee proposes to support the President’s initiative on one condition: that this object will not be included in the second list, but in the first, that is, completely banned from privatization. Arguments. Today, an enterprise that has been restructured and has been identified as a company called a state-owned enterprise, the Eastern Mining and Ammunition Company, is on the very first list, i.e. completely banned from privatization. The Cabinet of Ministers has presented a general list of objects that are not allowed to privatize, where the selected enterprise - the “Novokostantinovoske genealogy of uranium ores” – is also listed in the first list. The president suggests that we actually take it out of the first list and transfer it to the second. So the committee's proposal is as follows. In order to make it impossible to dispossess this enterprise at the expense of corporateism, because when it is transformed into an open stock company, it has the right to alienate the property that it owns, we propose two options: either to accept it now in the first reading only, and in the second committee on the inclusion of this object in the first list, or to vote now in the first, and in general to vote on the inclusion of it in the first list. That's what we're going to do today. That's an urgent question. If we have enough votes, we can just change the appendix to the law. This is the committee's decision: that changes are made to the list of property rights that are not subject to privatization, that is, Appendix 1. This is the position of the committee that I'm asking you to consider and support right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u145	Thank you, Alexander Mikolaiovich, please sit down. Let's sign up for a discussion. Alexander Mikolaiovich, have you forgotten to say anything? Oh, no? Paul Zebravsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u146	I'm convinced that we need to support the proposal made by Bondar Alexander Mikolaiovich, because in fact, the biggest trade, the biggest profits go to mining. In fact, if they make VINCs -- vertically integrated companies -- and they include such birthplaces, they don't actually pay taxes at all. In fact, trade in raw materials is precisely the most profitable. And today we need to go back to the question of iron and iron raw materials, because there are actually companies that have access to genealogy, they feel comfortable, and those that don't have metallurgical combinations of access to genealogy, in fact, they depend on the position of those, in fact, their competitors. Because of this, the position of the committee is fair, and I think it's necessary to refer the enterprise to the first list. And today it is for this matter to make a decision, both in the first reading and taking into account the committee’s proposals as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u147	Samolikka Katerina Seminovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u148	Thank you. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! I feel the same way, I guess in our country, we don't have to privatize and sell that we've already reached the birthplace. You know, it's all terrible, and especially at a time when our country is experiencing such a terrible crisis, both political and economic and moral, as we've already identified with you, is indeed, yes. And so the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine will only support this bill on one condition: if the decision of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Economic Policy is generally supported. We need to bring this to the first list of these objects and ban them from being privatized once and for all. I realize that there are so many people to get to that and to become masters not only of what is on earth but also of the earth. I would ask that we all step out of the politics of national interest, out of the politics of our state, and still support the decisions of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on economic policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u149	Thank you. The discussion is over. Dear colleagues, would there be any objection to that if we immediately put the vote to the first reading and, in general, taking into account the proposals made by the Economic Policy Committee? Is there no objection? I'll read again what the committee has to say. The committee proposes to adopt the prescribed bill provided that the enterprise is included in Appendix 1. This project is accepted as a whole. To this end, the name of the law and the appendix should be worded as follows: “A change that is made to the list of property rights that are not subject to privatization”. Is there no objection?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u150	I am voting for adoption as a whole as a bill of the draft Law on Amendments to the Law of Ukraine “On the List of Objects of State Property Rights that Are Not Privatized, Taking into account the Proposals of the Professional Committee. [[Registration number 4325]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:39:10]] For 325 Decision taken. The law has been passed in general. A draft Act amending article 11 of the Ukrainian Act on the administration of public property is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 4474]] Report to the Acting Head of the State Property Fund, Parthenenko Dmitry Mikolayovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u151	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies! Your opinion is proposed by a government bill that regulates the voting procedure of representatives of the state in the general meetings of shareholders' associations and farm associations, where the state is part. In particular, the bill states that in the order established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, a State representative shall vote in the public shareholders' assemblies in accordance with the commission issued by, or by, the State Property Fund, or by an authority authorized to manage the enterprise. This bill makes it impossible to vote one-personally and one-personally by the representatives of the State who participates in the general shareholders and disciplines and normalizes the very procedure for holding general shareholders’ meetings. This bill is approved by a professional committee, is a positive conclusion from the scientific and expert management, a request for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u152	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Yuri Mikolaiovich, report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u153	Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Economic Policy considered the bill on 24 June this year and recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt it as a basis. As the previous rapporteur has already said, the bill will settle the issue of whether authorized persons from a State present at meetings, in households, at meetings of shareholders or at a meeting of their participants, to act only in the context of the task given to him by the head of the authorized authority and not in the exercise of self-determination. There are comments on this bill of expertise, but they are technical and may be finalized until the second reading. Once again, the Committee recommends that it be adopted as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u154	Thank you, Yuri Mikolaiovich. Have a seat, please. Is there a need to discuss? There's no need. I am voting on the draft Act amending article 11 of the Ukrainian Act on the Management of Objects of State Property on the adoption of it in the first reading. [[Registration number 4474]] [[12:42:37]] For 306 Decision taken. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 4552]] Reported by Deputy Minister of Economy Zyjenov Mikhailo Aleksandrovich. There's no report. The bill was removed. There's no report. The subject of the legislative initiative is government. The project is an urgent one, and the government has not sent a reporter. Project withdrawn. A draft Act amending article 101 of the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on the participation of State border authorities in criminal proceedings]] [[Registration number 5004]] Reported to the First Deputy Head of the Administration of the State Border Service, Šišolín Pavel Anatoliyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u155	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! Dear National Deputies! To implement the concept of the development of the State Border Service until 2015, we have developed a draft of the Ukrainian Law, which is announced at the Supreme Council. The task of this bill is to put a task on the State’s Border Service and to make knowledge of the use of documents that have been falsified when crossing the state border. This issue is particularly relevant today, as more than 4 percent of citizens using counterfeit documents have increased in the current year alone. Unfortunately, today, according to article 97 of the Criminal Procedure Code, we do not have the right to commit a criminal offence in the event of this crime being detected, and to use accordingly any acts that are presumptively criminalized. Today, we do so only in 224 articles of the Code of Administrative Implementation. To date, the State Border Service has all the tools necessary to implement this law. First of all, we have trained professionals, we have, in accordance with the Law on Forensics, a special unit at the State Border Service, it's an expert service. Therefore, we would ask that the granting of additional powers to the State Border Service will ensure timely identification of the signs of crime, the detention of suspects and the dispatch of these materials to the IMF authorities already for the purpose of conducting a pretrial investigation. At the same time, the bill imposes the requirements of article 101, paragraph 7, of the Criminal Procedure Code in accordance with the current criminal legislation. We ask you to adopt this bill because it will have a significant impact on the resistance to illegal migration on the state border. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u156	Thank you. Have a seat, please. == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u157	Vladimir Moisik, “For Ukraine” MP. Dear colleagues! The Committee on Legislative Security and Law Protection reviewed the bill, supported it, and asked you to adopt it as a whole. This bill is submitted by the government and designated by the President of Ukraine as urgent. To date, the authorities of the foreign service have the right to know about violations of the state border. The bill suggests that two components of the offence be deciphered: illegal trafficking through human law and the use of counterfeit documents when crossing the state border, or offences that occur most frequently on the border. So I ask you, on behalf of the committee, to support you as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u158	Thank you, Volodymyr Romanovich. Is there a need to discuss? There is no need to discuss. I am voting on the draft Act amending article 101 of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code on the adoption of the first reading. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:47:12]] For 214 The decision is not taken. There is an offer to return to the vote. Is there no objection? I am voting on the proposal of the Ukrainian people's deputies to return to the vote on Bill 5004. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:47:52]] For 319 We're back. I would like to vote on the first reading of the draft Act amending article 101 of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code. [[on the participation of State border authorities in criminal proceedings]] [[Registration number 5004]] I'd like to make a statement. [[12:48:29]] For 344 Decision taken. There was a proposal for a committee to adopt this bill as a whole. Any objections to the Ukrainian national MPs? There's no objection. I am voting on the approval as a whole as a law, the draft Act amending article 101 of the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine. [[Registration number 5004]] I'd like to make a statement. [[12:49:06]] For 339 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we had a preliminary bill to report, and there was no government-defined reporter. [[No.4552]] He's in the session room right now. He apologizes to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and asks us to consider this bill. Will there be a denial of the people's deputies? There's no objection. Please consider the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[Registration number 4552]] Please – Zivanov Mikhailo Aleksandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u159	Thank you. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies! The purpose of the bill is to prevent the alienation of entire property complexes, objects included in the list of property rights that are not subject to privatization and their structural units through the lease mechanisms of the listed objects, as well as to the purpose of unacceptable restructuring and liquidation of enterprises that are not subject to privatization until they are excluded from the list of property rights that are not subject to privatisation. Today, 1 thousand 537 objects are in the list of property rights that are not subject to privatization approved by Ukraine’s relevant law. At present, all objects have lost legal status as a result of decisions made by the authorities regarding the reorganization, liquidation, and rental of 348 objects, although these objects continue to be listed. In this context, the bill is designed to amend part 5 of article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on the Privatisation of State Property in Part of the Ban on Restructuring, the liquidation of enterprises included in the list of property rights that are not subject to privatisation to exclude them from the listed list. In addition, according to paragraph 5 of section 2 of article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on Renting State and Municipal Property, it is now determined that leases cannot be included in the list of property rights that are not subject to privatisations that release excise goods. The bill is therefore designed to extend the scope of this rule to prohibit the rental of all complete property complexes of objects and their structural subdivisions included in the list of property rights that are not subject to privatization, not just those producing subcontractive products. Today, 17 of these companies are located.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u160	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u161	Please support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u162	Thank you. Please sit down, Mikhailo Alexandrovich. Bondar Alexander Mikolaiovich, co-report from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u163	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, national deputies! This bill is directly related to the previous one that I reported to the committee, because the enterprise that we put into the banned list number one has undergone a reorganization and has thus been removed from the privatization ban. To ensure that such a right is not available in the Ministry and other departments, the Cabinet of Ministers amends legislation that prohibits the liquidation of enterprises that are included in the banned list. That is, now there should be no such cases as we should correct in Parliament. At the same time, it is prohibited to rent businesses that are not allowed to privatize. Why is this urgent? Now we've included the Neo-Costantinian uranium ore species in the banned list. And tomorrow, the Ministry will reorganize it and thus bring it back from the banned list. And again, we're going to be a new enterprise with a new legal status to include in the first list. So I think the committee is proposing to adopt this bill as a basis. I would suggest to the MPs, because we have accepted the previous bill as a whole, to adopt this bill as a basis and as a whole to ban from today, from the moment of adoption, from reorganization, from the lease of all enterprises that are not allowed to privatize. I think it's going to be a government decision that won't allow the artificial way of the enterprise to privatize by reorganizing them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u164	Thank you, Alexander Mikolayovich. Let's sign up for a discussion. Kseniya Mikhailovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u165	Thank you. Xenia Lapina, group “For Ukraine!” I want to point out that we absolutely support the subject of this bill: it is timely, timely. Yet we must do such a job that we do not return to it and create a conflict. Science-expert management rightly notes that, for example, the term “reorganization” simply does not exist in the Civil Code. And we don't really know what we're writing. They offer a different edition: merger, merger, division, transformation, division, or elimination. This should be forbidden. Because then we'll be with you in court for years to figure out whether it was a reorganization or something else that wasn't banned. So I'm just paying attention to these things, and please, let's take it as a base, shorten the processing term, take into account the scientific experience, and then we'll take it as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u166	Ensign Alexei Vitaliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u167	I cannot agree with the previous statement that this is important and relevant. There is a proposal not to support this bill on the grounds that it will not be possible to be the object of renting only whole - size property complexes. And according to an active editorial, objects included in the list of property rights that are not subject to privatization. Thus, the project removes the ban on rent from other property rights. I mean, given these colossals, there's a proposal to send him out for processing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u168	The discussion is over. I put to the vote the adoption in the first reading on the basis of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine, registration number 4552. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:56:19]] For 223 The decision is not taken. Catherine Semenovna Samojlik suggests that we return to the vote. Is there no objection? I'm betting on the vote to go back to the decision of the bill. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:57:00]] For 237 We went back to the issue of decision-making. Please put to the vote a proposal for a committee to be approved in the first reading on the basis of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[Registration number 4552]] People's deputies are requested to identify themselves. [[12:57:38]] For 237 Decision taken. The draft Law on Approval of the National Programme on Immunoprophylactics and Protection of Populations against Infectious Diseases is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 4667]] Reported the first Deputy Minister of Health, Ukraine’s chief medical doctor, Bilowal Alexander Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u169	A great presidency, distinguished national MPs! The draft Law on the Approval of the National Programme for Immunization and Protection of Population from Infectious Diseases 2019-2015 has consistently continued the previous National Programmes for Immunization of Ukraine 1993-2000, as well as 2002-2006. The implementation of the previous 2002-2006 programme allows the disease to be reduced threefold to diphtheria, three times to an epidemic parotit and seven times to measles and rubella. At the same time, the epidemic situation in Ukraine regarding the most common dangerous diseases: such as viral hepatitis, measles, rubella, diphtheria, epidemic parotit, coughing, haemophilia infection, remains strained not only in Ukraine but also worldwide and in Europe. Therefore, the main objective of the 2009-2015 immuno-prevention programme is to further reduce the level of disease associated with immuno-prevention. It is possible to achieve such a reduction only by creating a population, collective immunity, or prevention vaccination of 95 percent. Today, the tasks and actions of the immuno-prevention programme are: the first is the implementation of a complete package of immuno-prevention measures. The first is public funding for the purchase of vaccines with the preservation of the cold chain during storage, the purchase of the necessary laboratory equipment, sanitary and educational work, and especially scientific support, which will enable the improvement, development of innovative directions of immunology and epidemiology. A major vaccination calendar is also planned in line with the existing situation, taking into account the experience of developed countries, such as the United States and the European Union. A vaccine against hepatitis B and red blood cells is still being proposed, which is important in terms of prevention of birth defects. And using more effective and biological and immunological drugs.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u170	Please finish, Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u171	and the creation of a certificate of vaccination of a Ukrainian citizen, which every Ukrainian citizen should receive, is an individual document. Special attention is planned to increase the professional level of health - care workers, to increase the use of laboratory diagnostics in the case of narrow medical examinations and pre-vaccination. Today, too, the proposed measures and calendar of preventive vaccinations have been developed by the leading specialists of the Ministry of Health, the Academy of Medical Sciences, and the Professional Committee. In this way, the immuno-prevention program will provide a reliable protection for the population of Ukraine, primarily children, against the most dangerous infections, which have an enormous risk of death and severe complications. The program is in agreement with all executive authorities, the city of Sevastopol, Kiev, the Academy of Medical Sciences, and the professional committee were heard and approved in general. Please support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u172	Thank you, sit down, please. A report from the committee. It's Victor Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u173	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! The Supreme Council of Ukraine's Committee on Health has reviewed the draft Law on the Approval of the National Programme on Immunoprophylactics and Protection of the Population from Infectious Diseases for 2009-2015. First of all, it should be noted that infectious diseases remain one of the main causes of the decline in quality of life, temporary loss of employment, disability, and even death. The strategic priority of the health sector, therefore, is to ensure the epidemic welfare of the population of Ukraine. The practical effectiveness of such a course in the fight against infectious diseases has already been demonstrated in previous years, including in the implementation of the 2002-2006 immuno-prevention programme. The Ukrainian Academy of Medical Sciences notes that during the period in Ukraine, the disease rate of diphtheria has been reduced by 2.8 times, by 6.8 times, on the red side, by 3.4 times, and so on. Ukraine is a country free from such a serious disease as polio. There are other important examples and achievements and achievements in our health field. Taking into account that the implementation of the previous immuno-prevention programme ended in 2006, the absence of a long-term basic software document from this preventive medicine direction, the inadequacy of regulations on immunizations to the requirements of the current laws of Ukraine has led to a lack of systems in the implementation of population vaccinations, caused considerable social tension, undermined the public's confidence in immuno-prevention, which creates a negative international image of the state and contributes to significant financial costs. I would like to point out that the members of the profile committee have repeatedly drawn the attention of the Ministry of Health to the inadmissibility of such a state of affairs and the whole country, and even beyond it, already know about the disgraceful deaths of children who died during the time.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u174	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u175	Thus, the adoption of this law is absolutely justified and necessary. In addition, I would like to point out that there are observations as members of our committee, the Committee on Rules, MPs, the Chief Scientific and Expert Directorate. This is the first immunoprescription program approved by the law of Ukraine, which is a high responsibility, and the second reading needs to be seriously revised. But we recommend accepting it as a basis. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u176	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Let's sign up for a discussion. Grigorovich Lilia Stepanovna, please
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u177	Lilia Grigorovich, Secretary of the Health Committee. Honorable national MPs, since no one has signed up “against ” them. So I propose to vote as suggested by the committee: in the first reading with the addition of amendments that will improve the program. Because with all the things that we have today somewhere in immuno-prevention, we have to live without a program in the 21st century. Louis Passer would be surprised. So I think we should take a program to protect our fellow countrymen, our children, and serve national security.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u178	Thank you. Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u179	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Respectful colleagues no doubt understand the need for such a program, especially since the program is long - term, a long - term program. The only thing I have to say about this is that the committee's decision is a double meaning: who's going to be working on this program? So we're adopting the law that we approve the program, we're not adopting the program -- we're adopting the law that approves the program. If we're just taking it as a base right now, it's roughly equivalent because we're returning the Cabinet of Ministers program because it's a Cabinet of Ministers program. If he wanted to settle a profile committee, take into account some suggestions, he had to do it with the program's developers, and consider it. Because, once again, we're adopting a law that approves the program. If we don't take the law, there's no program. So what I'm saying is, let's actually adopt this program law, and in the course of this program, it's going to change a dozen more times, and each time, one way or another, one way or another. I don't see the need to delay adoption, let's vote in general as a law, let's adopt it in both first and second readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u180	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, we do have questions that the Supreme Council should answer, because the law can only be in one position: to approve the program introduced by the government. It doesn't make any sense to work on a few readings. It can only be about changing the program, but the program is done by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. So we can either approve the approval of the program that's given, or we don't support it, so that we don't really create artificial obstacles or delay the solution. So if you don't mind, I'm going to put a vote on adoption as a whole as a bill for the bill of the Law on Approval of the National Programme of Immunization and Protection of the Population from Infectious Diseases 2009-2015, registration number 4677. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:08:14]] For 339 Decision taken. In general, the law has been passed. A draft Ukrainian Air Code, registration number 4419, is being announced for consideration. David’s Deputy Minister of Transport and Communications, Alexander Mikolayovich, reports. Wait a minute, please. Dear colleagues, we have a reduced procedure, so I have a question for you, it's a big document, so that we can either go full or give more time to present the documents. So we're going to give you more time to present the documents. Please report, Alexander Mikolaiovich. Time limits, please take them off.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u181	Thank you. Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! First of all, let me point out that the changes to the current edition of the Air Code have long been due. The future of the development of domestic aviation depends on the introduction of these changes directly, as well as whether we can properly integrate into the international structure and meet all its standards? The situation today in Ukrainian aviation, particularly with regard to the regulation and control of its subjects, cannot continue this way. It is worth noting that the new Air Code is a document that has not been waited for and hoped for for for the first year. Slowing down or delaying the change process may leave Ukraine as an aviation state far behind the global progress of international aviation and not allow us to introduce a modern aviation safety mechanism. We need to understand that aviation is the most dynamic sector in the world, and in order to move forward from time to time, we need to make every effort right now to get the desired result. Flight safety is a top priority of aviation, and it is up to you to create effective and effective mechanisms to ensure it. According to a 2005 U.S. Federal Aviation Administration audit, Ukraine was transferred to a second category with restrictions on flights to the United States, such as one that does not fully meet the requirements of the International Civil Aviation Organization. The 2008 audit of this organization confirmed the general need to adopt a new edition of the Air Code, taking into account the previous audit observations and the United States Federal Aviation Administration. [[ICAO]] The European Commission is also concerned about the absence of a modern Air Code in Ukraine, as it has repeatedly noted during the negotiations on the creation of a common aviation space. Yes, we know that before the bill is introduced, there are observations about ensuring that some of the requirements of an international civil aviation organization are met. We also know that there is a point made by the committee to refer this document back to the Cabinet of Ministers. But if we vote in favour of this decision, we will consider the Air Code even more time than we suggest. However, in general, the new edition of the Air Code is certainly a significant step forward. And we generally realize and ask that we accept it in the first reading as a basis and prepare it for the second reading, taking into account all the suggestions. And the proposals related to airport activity are related to the proposal for the authorization of a state-owned administrative authority and so forth. I think you'll understand this question and you'll support us, and you'll accept this document in the first reading, and as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u182	Thank you. Sit down, Alexander Mikolaiovich. The report from the committee is Vladimir Vasilovich Kozak.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u183	Dear Alexander Vladimirović, distinguished members of the people! The Committee agrees with the need to improve this legislation. But I want to remind you of the history of this law. On 31 March this year, we considered the Air Code and the Supreme Council rejected the Air Code. In just three weeks, he was submitted to the Supreme Council with minor partial changes, almost repeating the law that was rejected by the Supreme Council. The main provisions required today by the International Civil Aviation Organization are not provided for in this law. [[ICAO]] This is the main division of executive power, i.e. the Ministry of Transport and Gosavia administration. The regulation of pilot, private, business, small aviation activities, the non-compliance of the bill with the basic law on licensing of certain economic activities are also not taken into account. The Committee on European Integration concluded that the rules of European Union law were not taken into account. The Committee on Budget Affairs concluded that there was no financial and economic justification for the law. But more importantly, Ukraine is now preparing for the final round of signing the Single European Air Area Treaty. Thus, the Air Code does not take into account any norm nor the standards for flight safety. environment. Licensing, what we are signing today in treaties with the European Union, is not fully incorporated into this legislation. Therefore, today, by adopting this law even on first reading, we will stress that we are not looking at the decision and request of the European Union to sign even this treaty. The Committee therefore considered with understanding and was prepared to cooperate with the Ministry of Transport, but unanimously decided to refer the legislation to its work. Please support the opinion of the Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u184	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. We're going to write two-for-two-against. Pudov Boris Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u185	I'm asking my colleagues to support it, it's a coded code, and it's long overdue for a mother like a mother and a bunch of other codes. That is why I will be brief and ask my colleagues to support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u186	Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u187	Dear colleagues, I would ask you all to take such legislative acts more seriously and with a sense of responsibility. He's not the "cheers" you're trying to "swallow" him here, "turn our hands" and force him to accept the raw material instead of the code. I spoke on this subject last time this air force. With permission to say, the Air Code was being discussed. I'll start from the bottom, from the bottom. We asked, remember, the question is: Make sure that airport ownership is clearly settled. [[Where's me? Minister?]] We have the Euro-2012 threshold. The state invests in what, the airport - private, airport - municipal property, airport - state property? We don't need to be fooled, they're huge pieces of land! And you and I remember very well that this bill was adopted here on the third call. Airports are exempt from land taxes. He can't pay for an airport where there's an alien zone, because there's no one there that can live and there's no box or blemish on the runway. The other one. This Air Code does not clearly address the issue of aircraft ownership. It's a state-owned aircraft, it's a private aircraft, it's a private aircraft, it's a requirement, it's a transfer of an aircraft from the state to lysing, it's a different use. Last time we talked about this bill, this is the Air Code that has to be clearly harmonized with relevant European legislation. You can't do that! Then he did not pass, until the letter I deliberately took and read, to the letter all things as they were and left and re-entered the session room. We're doing bad government service! Ladies and gentlemen! We have the Euro -2012, where extremely high requirements will be made for this Air Code and for our air connection. So I'm going to support the proposal for a profile committee, and we're going to assign it to the people who worked on this bill in the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u188	Please, Jaroslav Mikhailovich, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u189	introduce this bill and so that it can be voted for. In that committee of profile, you know, there are representatives of different factions, and there was a lot of talk on that topic. The “siri” bills, especially the codified bills, which did not include eight requirements of legislation, including with regard to “certification and licensing” – are an extremely high measure of security. Such a bill cannot be called a codex; it must be redrafted.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u190	Thank you, Jaroslav Mikhailovich! The discussion is over. I'm voting on the first reading of the draft Ukrainian Air Code. [[Registration number 4419]] I'd like to make a statement. [[13:19:19:19]] For 177 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. [[General Discussion]] There is a proposal by the Ukrainian National MP to vote on the decision, to send it back to the first reading. People’s deputy Kirilenko Viacheslav Anatoliyovich is proposed to vote. To reread the draft Ukrainian Air Code. [[Registration number 4419]] I'd like to make a statement. [[13:20:05]] For 186 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Please work to get another project under consideration. The draft Law on the Basic Principles of State Housing Policy is announced for consideration: Minister of Housing and Utilities Kucherenko Aleksij Juryovich. [[Registration number 4676]]
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u191	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for your consideration of the bill on the basic principles of national housing policy. The housing policy of any country is one of the components of state, social, economic policy, and it was and will be the focus of the state. Because the correct choice of basic principles and the direction of its implementation depends not only on solving the issue of housing, but also on economic development and social stability in the state. During the years of independence in Ukraine, global transformations have been made in the housing sector. First of all, it's the privatization of the state, municipal housing fund, it's a housing market, it's an expanded way of investing in housing, it's adopted the first normative acts aimed at providing housing for citizens. But it is these achievements of our country that have led to the need for a new modern housing policy. Regrettably, the housing reforms have not only had a positive effect but have created a number of problems. First. This is a privatization of state and municipal housing without creating an appropriate legal concept for the management of privatized housing. There is no housing financing strategy today, and this prevents investment from coming into this area; the lack of a new concept and the satisfaction of citizens' housing needs for their own costs by creating individual types of legal persons for building and managing housing; the chaotic provision of land for construction; the lack of government housing standards; and inadequate social housing, etc. That is why today we are proposing this bill, which, to our conviction, must determine the legal, socio-economic and organizational orientations of state housing policy in the field of the implementation of the constitutional right of citizens to housing. This is the main means of achieving the goal: to justify the need and accept housing programmes; to reform housing legislation comprehensively, which will be based on the new housing fund system; to introduce state social standards, state social guarantees, security; to create conditions for free, transparent ownership of land; and to encourage.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u192	Complete, please, Alexy Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u193	And encouraging homeowners to choose the most effective and competitive ways to manage the housing fund. The draft law is prepared jointly with the experts of the Institute of State and Law. There's been a positive conclusion from the Chief Research Administration. Please support the adoption of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u194	A report from the Committee by Alexander Pavlovich Popov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u195	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! On July 8, this year, the bill was considered at the meeting of our profiling committee. At the time of his consideration, we had only proposals from our colleagues on the budget committee that suggested that the date and introduction of this law should be effective on January 1, 2011, and they would argue about this proposal. The main scientific and expert office made some comments, but it believes that they can also be taken into account when preparing this bill for second reading. In connection with the speaker, our committee decided to put the law into session, to vote in the first reading. We also, in addition to the above arguments, came from the fact that, as of today, we have before us in the Supreme Council a rereading of the Ukrainian Housing Code. And it already contains chapters that also address the subject of housing policy in Ukraine. And so, if the Housing Code is adopted, in principle, the relevance of this law will not be the same. But from the fact that more than 10 years go by, well, the Housing Code doesn't apply, the committee decided to support the bill in the first reading, like, let's just say, just in case. But we think that the Housing Code will still be the document that solves all the issues in the complex, including these. I'm asking you to support the committee's decision, that is, to take it on the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u196	Thank you, Alexander Pavlovich. Is there a need to discuss? Yes. Please sign up for the discussion. Kseniya Mikhailovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u197	Group “For Ukraine! ” I want to point out that we are truly grateful to the minister, that he actually came out with the right approach to the formation of legislation. It is the Supreme Council that must lay down the principles of state policy in one area or another. This should then be a guide for the development of changes to laws that will have direct effect. Why is it so long and, let's say, it's not easy to pass the Housing Code in the Supreme Council? That's understandable. It has direct action, and its consequences will be reflected in the entire population of Ukraine. And this is a conservative sphere that needs deep discussion. At the same time, I call on both opposition and coalition to support the principles of housing policy, because in the middle of the second reading, it is our parliamentary work with you to make all the proposals there so that the principles and principles are defined as the Supreme Council sees the development of this sphere. And you don't have to baptize yourself from this job. It's a parliamentary job. And it doesn't have to be translated into political factors. We have to do this, we just have to do it with you. So I would like to support and do my parliamentary work to determine policy principles in the area of housing and utilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u198	Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u199	Dear colleagues! If any of you have watched closely what is written in this program, in these principles, I am surprised to hear the minister report on the liquidation of the Ministry in practice. Because if these principles were to be met, there would be no need for the Ministry. Because we don't know what the current department will do. Because this is where we're going to decentralize everything. For what, then, is the central authority of executive authority? What will he control if everything is decentralized? I would like the minister to think before making any suggestions on whether there will be such a ministry. And the second is the main thing. We're just writing you another piece of paper. We're just transferring time, resources, resources to create something else in addition to the Housing Code. Because the Housing Code is the only basic document that should determine what you wrote in the next document. And here the co-reporter from the committee said that we did, just in case, write. Because if there's a Labour Code, the Housing Code, I'm sorry, you don't need that law. So in the Cabinet of Ministers, do they think they're doing it or not? Are they asking questions in front of each ministry, reporting on legislative work? And the Ministry of Science reports that we've prepared another pipe. Well, let's be serious about state affairs. Let's save some serious money. We're taking up time now. They took it to the Ministry, took it to the Cabinet of Ministers, which was looking at the bill. He's with the Supreme Council now. And it's just another pee-pee to the basic law, which at this, or more faithfully, next plenary week should be considered. So think about what you're doing. Why are we going to accept it now, create some other paper if we consider the Housing Codex? I'm offering no support.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u200	Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u201	Dear colleagues! I appeal to the Ukrainian National Deputies with experience. Remember, we discussed the Housing Codex very vividly in this room. The Housing Code was discussed on more than one occasion, and the Housing Codex was introduced to parliamentary hearings, committee hearings, involving wide public circles. The Housing Code is not accepted. And the Ukrainian Housing Code, just like the Labour Code of the '70s, is absolutely not conducive to solving those extremely complex problems, because life has changed, time has gone on, Ukraine is transformed long ago on the basis of market principles, and we have old socialist principles and medicine, health protection and our housing. I would like to agree with my colleague Martinyuk that the bill, like other bills, has the seal of chaoticity and insensitivity. Either we're going on a gradual but steady path of codifying housing legislation, or nobody needs it at all. The point here is that if the main task, as stated in the explanatory table of this bill and in the speech of the minister, is to decentralize the administration of housing and utilities, then I want to explain to you, in the example of Kiev, that the house on Titina Street, 10, where we live with colleague Olena and other Ukrainian national deputies, we will somehow decentralize and survive, but there are nine-story houses with us in the Bresnaks, for which this decentralization will lead to complete death, destruction and destruction. Because decentralization, one piece of garbage, and the other, systems and networks that have rotted and need to be centralized at the expense of the budget, including with the help of the state to fix. One aspect of my concern is that it touches Zaporozhye. Allowing the State and the territorial authorities the right to use the housing fund as a general purpose for profit. If this system goes any further, if we don't stop it, people have it now.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u202	Jaroslav Mikhajlovich, finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u203	I'm sorry. Now we're looking at a reduced procedure of extremely huge bills. People have big complaints about the basements, about the attics that are just, you know, caught. Downstairs are the kickboxing sections, and on the first and second floors, people can't live normally. We have to adopt a clear bill where it has to be strictly written: the responsibility of the tenant, the responsibility of the state, the responsibility of housing and utilities, or else nobody needs it. Well, people, who needs a bill for that bird that we developed the government program? Well, you vote, if there's a majority, now on a base, well, it can't work. We need the Housing Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u204	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. I am voting on the adoption of the draft Law on Fundamental Principles of State Housing Policy in the first reading. [[Registration number 4676]] I'd like to make a statement. [[13:32:41.]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Kseniya Mikhailna Liapina suggests that this project be corrected for the first time again. The proposal by Kseniya Mikhailna Lápina to refer to the first reading of the draft Law on Basic Principles of State Housing Policy is a vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:33:14]] For 175 The decision is not taken, the bill is rejected. A draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the protection of the housing rights of orphans and children deprived of parental care, as well as of persons of their number, is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 3676]] Reported by Deputy Minister for Family Affairs, Youth and Sports, Szyenko Yuri Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u205	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies! One of the components of social protection for orphans and children deprived of parental care is the protection of their housing and property rights and interests. This issue is a complex one, and to this day it is not settled. Proposals for improving legal regulation are developed by the Ukrainian Ministry of Family, Youth, and Sports and submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The bill provides for the taking. picking up orphans and children deprived of parental care who have reached 16 years of age to account for citizens who need to improve living conditions; raising children in such a category to take care of citizens who need to improve housing conditions at their place of origin; developing a system for saving and transferring children's housing to rentals at the time of setting up a family-based care facility for orphans and children deprived of parental care. It is not uncommon for local executives to fail to exercise proper control over their caregivers, caregivers, government officials ’ duties to manage and preserve their homes. Minsimas, young people, sports every six months are being analyzed for violation of the housing and property rights of orphans and children deprived of parental care. During 2008, children's services as structural units of local executive bodies that directly deal with the protection of the rights and interests of orphans and children deprived of parental care have been reviewed by 13,000 993 applications and appeals for the protection of children's housing and property rights. The bill was discussed on committees on construction, construction, housing and utility.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u206	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u207	Thank you. Regional policies, such as family and youth policies, sports, tourism, pensioners, veterans and disabled persons, on issues of European integration. The above-mentioned Committees of the Supreme Council were recommended to adopt a draft law as a basis. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u208	A report from the committee. Alexander Pavlovich Popov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u209	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! On July 10 of this year, our committee was considering a draft of this law. He took into account the positive findings of our colleagues from other committees. And we also had suggestions and comments from the Chief Science and Technology Administration. But as the government says, they can be corrected, these comments, when preparing the law for second reading. Our committee voted in favour of adopting this law in the first reading, accepting it as a basis. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u210	Thank you. Is there a need to discuss? There's no need for that. I am voting on the first reading of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on the protection of the housing rights of orphans and children deprived of parental care]] [[Registration number 3676]] I'd like to make a statement. [[13:37:44]] For 293 Decision taken. The draft Law on Services provided by the Government, the authorities of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local self-government and budgetary institutions is announced for consideration. [[Registration number 4176]] Reported by Deputy Minister of Economy Zyjenov Mikhailo Aleksandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u211	Once again, Reverend Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished national MPs! A draft Ukrainian Law on Services Provided by Government Authorities, Local Self-Government Authorities, and institutions and organizations supported by budgetary resources has been developed with the aim of arranging the provision of public services and channelling the funds received from them to government and local budgets. Today, one of the main problems in the area of the provision of paid public services is that a large number of such services are provided not directly by government authorities and local authorities but by their structures, which are often accounting institutions. In this case, the funds received for the provision of paid public services do not always come to government and local budgets but remain at the disposal of these structures. The provision of public services is being carried out in the process of fulfilling the functions of the State, which are provided for by law and are established by the State authorities and local authorities. Therefore, the State must retain its responsibility for the provision of such services. In view of the fact that public authorities and local authorities do not always have the opportunity to provide such services directly, it is proposed to allow the delegation of powers for the provision of public services, but only to the budgetary institutions established by such authorities. The appropriate costs for the provision of such services should be directed to the budget for the accounts opened in the authorities of the State Treasury of Ukraine. The adoption of the Ukrainian Law will allow for an increase in the revenue of the State and local budgets by restricting the supply of paid public services by government agencies and by ensuring that the funds that come for the provision of paid public services are channelled to the corresponding budget for the accounts opened in the Ukrainian State Treasury. Thank you for your attention and would like to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u212	Thank you, Mikhailo Alexanderovich. A report from the committee, Victor Viktorovich Pavlenko, please. None. Head of the Committee on Local Self-Government. Is there a need to discuss the project? Yes. Sign up for the discussion. Please, the People's Deputy of Pudov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u213	I have an offer to support this bill as a basis. Why? Because there is a need to put the basic order in the provision of these services, as well as the fact that the funds should be channelled to the State budget, rather than being “lost” somewhere, we are said to be in the pretences to the “household of the Family”. Therefore, I ask my colleagues to support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u214	Gordijenko Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u215	Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u216	Martinjuk Adam Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u217	Dear colleagues! The bill that is now being proposed from a series of similar ones that we talked about the housing-communal problem. It's roughly the same thing written even worse. Consider: The law provides that public authorities, or public authorities, have provided payment services. I bet you, dear fellows, are we a state body or not? Yes. What kind of services do we pay for, and to whom will we give them? What kind of pay-per-view services besides the ones we talked about here yesterday, I'm sorry about that, so to speak, maybe not a very good comparison. This is one moment. One second. If he's a government authority, he's funded by the State Budget, right? Yes. What the State Budget is, is the taxes that the population pays for the functioning of the state, that is, man, you and I have already paid the service that the public authorities have to provide. Or whether a government body was created to provide services on behalf of a state to run a society on behalf of a state, and for that society had already paid its taxes, it paid the State budget. This is again from the wicked one, someone sat down and thought of something, let's set up some government services. This bill has no bearing on life. So I suggest that he be sent to where he was born, and in no way can he be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u218	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich, for the payment services here in the Supreme Council, there is actually a question. Ensign Alexei Vitaliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u219	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! This is an example of the question of legislation and it's a very questionable bill in general. First of all, it doesn't even understand what paid services are, what services are provided by government agencies. And secondly, Adam Ivanovich said, we have the President, there is the Supreme Council, the Constitutional Court, the functions laid down in the Constitution, the financing goes from the State budget, and suddenly these institutions have to provide some other payment services. So from this point of view, we can totally support Adam Ivanovich: we can reject this bill and we can't bring more of this to the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u220	Thank you. The reporter has requested to specify some information from the project. Is there a denial? None. Please, Mikhaylo Alexandrovich. Just remember, anything you say can be taken against your project.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u221	I pressed the button. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! I would still like to support this bill. What Adam Ivanovich said is that it seems to be in the truth, yes, the Supreme Council is a state body, but it does not provide payment for services. There are pay services that are established by laws or by other laws, and they are delegated on behalf of the State, whether by government or by other government authorities. The same is true at the local level, when it's the right to pay services, let's say local self-government, and it gives this right to some accounting structure, it collects and uses this money on behalf of a state or local government. The purpose of the law is to make all this money go into the budgets or local governments, or government institutions, through the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u222	I put to the vote the draft Law on Services granted to the authorities of the State, the authorities of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the local self-government authorities and the budgetary institutions on adoption in the first reading. [[Registration number 4176]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:46:09]] For - 143 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. The draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Electricity is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 4131]] First Deputy Minister of Fuel and Energy, Bugajov Oleg Anatoliyovich, will report. Dear colleagues, we continue our morning plenary session for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u223	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! Dear National Deputies! The need for amendments and additions to Ukraine's Electricity Act is due to the fact that electricity breaks are possible for consumers for various reasons: due to electricity production, transmission and supply of electricity, or because of the poor technical condition of consumers. As a result of the systematic failure of consumers to implement the Regulations, electrical installations are often subject to unfounded claims at the address of power supply companies and NEK Krennergo. The draft Law amending the Law on Electricity establishes the limits of the responsibility of electricity and consumer entities for the unbreakable and high-quality supply of electricity to consumers. [[Registration number 4131]] The targets are intended to be achieved through the legislative distribution of the responsibility of electricity producers in the production, transmission and supply of electricity. The draft act determines the circumstances and conditions of responsibility of electricity and electricity users in the event of an interruption in the supply of electricity or the supply of electricity of an improper quality. The bill envisages the establishment of appropriate contracts between electricity operators that produce, transfer and supply electricity, the order of compensation for damage caused by the interruption of production, transmission and supply of electricity and or by the production, transmission and supply of electricity, the quality parameters of which go beyond the indicators defined by the national standards of Ukraine, which were previously not regulated by legislation. This bill was approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine Committee on Fuel and Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security on April 1, 2009. On May 13, 2009, the bill was discussed at a meeting.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u224	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u225	and recommended for adoption. The adoption of the bill does not require spending from the State Budget. In view of what has been said, I ask the honourable national MPs to support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u226	A report from the committee, Titenko Sergey Mihajlovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u227	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! I'm going to be very tight, because I'm running out of time. The Committee on Fuel and Energy at its meeting on April 1, this year, considered the draft legislation and identified that the legislative proposal was very relevant, with the aim of bringing the rules of the Electricity Act into line with the requirements of the Civil and Economic Code in part of the general conditions of liability. As a result of the review, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of the draft law in the first reading on the basis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u228	Thank you. Is there a need to discuss? There's no need for that. I am voting on the adoption in the first reading of the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Electricity. [[Registration number 4131]] I'd like to make a statement. [[13:50:32]] For 258. Decision taken. A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation is being announced for consideration in connection with the adoption of the Law on the Free System of Economic Activities. [[Registration number 4582]] Reported by the Deputy Minister of Environmental Protection, Trigutenko Sergey Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u229	Good afternoon! Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The bill proposed for consideration has been drafted by the Government of Ukraine with the aim of bringing legislation on environmental protection to the requirements of the Ukrainian Law on Free Economic Activities. Relevant changes aimed at organising relations related to the detention of documents of a permissive nature are proposed to amend the Water Code of Ukraine, the Law on Air Protection of Ukraine, the Law on Animal Health of Ukraine, the Law on Plants of Ukraine, the Law on the Red Book of Ukraine, the Law on Pesticides and Agrochemicals of Ukraine. The bill provides for the issuance of permits for both free and on a paid basis. Documents of a permissive nature shall be issued on a paid basis. For the special use of hunting animals, other aquatic fish, and living resources. The introduction of the draft law will allow for an increase in payments to the budget for handling, payment for granting individual types of permits. The adoption of the bill will ensure that the laws are harmonized, allowing the relations of the Ministry, its territorial authorities, and its management entities to be settled. Thank you for your attention. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u230	The report from the committee is Valérie Grigorovitch Krajny, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u231	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies! The Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship at its meeting on 23 June 2009 reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine in relation to the Adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the Free System of Economic Activities. [[by the number 4572 of May 25, 2009, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine]] The purpose of the bill is to carry out existing legislation in accordance with the requirements of the Ukrainian Law on the Free System of Economic Activities. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in its conclusion of 25 June 2009, believes that the first reading of the bill can be based on the following comments and suggestions. Committee members support the proposal of the Cabinet of Ministers to simplify, harmonize and optimize the procedures for the issuance of documents of a permissive nature in various areas of economic activity, and propose. [[amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts]] Ukraine's draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts in connection with the adoption of the Act on the Free System in the Field of Economic Activities to be submitted to the Supreme Council for consideration and accepted as a basis. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u232	Is there a need to discuss? [[From the hall.]] There isn't!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u233	There's no need. The first reading of the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts in connection with the adoption of the Law on Allowance in the Field of Economic Activities is on the vote. [[Registration number 4572]] I'd like to make a statement. [[13:54:38]] For-188. The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. A draft Act supplementing article 3 of the Ukrainian Law on Farming is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 4746]] Reported to the head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, Jury Mikola Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u234	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies! According to article 3 of the Ukrainian Law on Farming, there may be couples, their parents, children who have reached the age of fourteen and other members of the family and relatives who have joined together for farming and who recognize and adhere to the statute of farming. But given that the main farms were formed between 1991 and 1994 in accordance with the Ukrainian Law 2009-12 “On Agriculture and Agriculture” and the Ukrainian Land Code of 18.12.1990, it was envisaged that farmers would be granted permanent inheritance and permanent possession. But with the effect of the Ukrainian Code of Land effective on October 25, 2001, which provided for the right to everlasting inheritance in the possession of the land of farm members to cease and undertake to transform all farmers into a fixed right of ownership or the right to rent the land concerned. In this regard, farmers today face major complications. Why? Because law enforcement agencies are guided by the Family Code and the Supreme Court of Ukraine Decision No. 3 of 1505. In 2006, “On the application by the courts of the individual rules of the Ukrainian Family Code in matters relating to parenthood, motherhood and assembly of elements”, which provides that family members are included in such matters as grandparents, grandparents, great-grandmothers.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u235	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u236	Thank you. Our bill proposes to expand the family circle more so that farmers can run their own farm and have land on rent or property. And that makes it possible, to some extent, for us to preserve the agricultural class as a whole, which is essential for the agricultural sector of the country. Thank you. There's an offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u237	Is there a need to discuss? There is no need to discuss. Have a seat, please. The committee proposes the adoption of this draft law as a whole. Is there no objection? I am voting on the adoption as a whole as a bill of the draft Act supplementing article 3 of the Ukrainian Law on Farming, and I ask you to be determined. [[13:58:28]] For 306 The law has been passed in general. A draft Law on the Specificities of Agricultural Insurance, with State Financial Support, is being announced for consideration. Jury of Mikola Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u238	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! Dear National Deputies! Dear agrarians! Today there is much talk about supporting the agro-industry sector of the country so that the agro-industry sector is a leading sector in our country's economy. But taking into account the terms of the World Trade Organization and taking into account current conditions, there is a proposal for a review of the Ukrainian legislation on the specificities of insurance for agricultural products with State financial support. What does that mean? Our bill provides that 50 percent of the premium to be paid by agribusiness is covered by the State. This will allow you to make budget allocations effective for the agri-industrial complex. This will allow us to move insurance in an agri-industrial complex from a dead end. Because statistics show how we don't try to initiate these years so that agriculture insurance doesn't have an active phase, it doesn't happen. And we know that agri-industrial complex is more likely to fall under natural and natural disasters. And there's no such thing as trust in insurance companies from farmers. In some cases, insurance companies are unable to cover their liabilities if a natural disaster occurs. There is a proposal to support this bill in the first reading and the second reading to take into account all the expected additions and suggestions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u239	Thank you, Mikola Volodymyrovich. Please, Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich. Please sit down.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u240	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! I'm calling on everyone to support this infrastructure bill. What the reporter did not say must be emphasized. Ukraine’s agriculture today is the least attractive sector for lending, unfortunately. There's no such thing. So we have two-thirds of the households going with simplified technology. The adoption of this law and the support of insurance unlocks agricultural lending. You should at least say some figures. For every spring-field job, it takes 8-10 billion, the agrarians involve 2-3, and it's the powerful ones who have the possibilities. Therefore, this bill is extremely relevant and must be adopted. This is one of the bills that defines agrarian market infrastructure and this is a serious perspective, special, I'm saying, to open up the potential for lending to the industry. Let's support him.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u241	Thank you, Ivan Grigorovitch. Can we be sure? It is the adoption vote in the first reading of the draft Law on the Specialities of Agricultural Insurance with State Financial Support in First Reading. [[Registration number 5063]] [[14:02:40]] For 272 Decision taken. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on the fight against terrorist financing]] [[Registration number 4309]] Report by Poluniev Yuri Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u242	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! It is proposed that you consider a bill amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the fight against terrorist financing]] [[Registration number 4309]] The bill proposes to supplement Ukraine’s Criminal Code with a new article 258-5, establishing criminal responsibility for financing terrorism. In this connection, it is proposed that section 3 of article 112 of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code should be supplemented by a determination that criminal financing crimes are investigated by the Ukrainian Security Service. The bill amends the Ukrainian Anti-Terrorism Act, which proposes to include the State Committee on Financial Monitoring of Ukraine in the list of entities involved in the prevention, detection and cessation of terrorist activities. The bill is designed to improve legislation on the fight against terrorist financing and to bring certain laws of Ukraine into line with the International Convention on the Suppression of the Financing of Terrorism of 1999 and other international legal acts. So the need to adopt a bill is based on the need to define the financing of terrorism as a separate criminal act as envisaged by international conventions today. The adoption of the proposed law will help prevent and combat the financing of terrorism. The proposed changes will also allow Ukraine's legislation to be brought into line with international standards. Please support this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u243	Thank you, Yuri Volodymyrovich. People's MP, Arzhevtin. Have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u244	Stanislav Arjewitin, group “For Ukraine! ” Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that this bill be sent for further work, and this opinion is shared by both scientific and expert administrations and other independent experts. Why? First, the bill softens all the sanctions used today in the current version of the Criminal Code for acts aimed at financing terrorism or organizing terrorist groups. If this is today 15 years, this option provides for a separate classification. Secondly, these proposals do not bring any new innovations. All this criminal responsibility is already in today's version of the Criminal Code, they're just charging and they're not giving anything new. I'd like to say that there's a lot of use of terms that conflict with each other. For example, “the means of crime”, “the deliberate actions of man’s death”, “the collection of financial services”. The reference was, the reporter referred to that they had taken into account the proposals made by the special committee of the FATF, but unfortunately, that is not the case either, because the commission is proposing, for example, to a criminal commission. We do not have the criminal responsibility of a legal person who takes part in terrorist acts, and this project is not envisaged. And Fatf asks that we also anticipate not only individuals but also legal persons for this responsibility and, of course, make appropriate changes to the Master Code for Administrative. As an administrative economic sanction. This project is also unforeseeable. Terms are used. For example, one term “terrorist”, but there is no term “terrorist act”, “terrorist organization” such as, for example, the FATF group proposes that this be clearly prescribed. Today's phrase in the project is that all the authorities of the state have to deal with all of these things, but let's see, for example, if we look at them, that's also the responsibility of the courts, but I don't think that's the function of the courts. So I propose that this bill be sent for processing. This is also the opinion of the Scientific and Experimental Authority, I would stress, other expert groups.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u245	Can we vote? I would like to vote on the adoption of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on combating the financing of terrorism in the first reading. [[Registration number 4309]] I'd like to make a statement. [[14:07:41]] For-174 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on the prevention of the legalization of proceeds obtained by criminal means]] Reporting by Ukrainian national deputy Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u246	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! The Supreme Council of Ukraine is being reviewed by the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine (for the Prevention of Legalization (Laundering) of Proceeds by Crime) (registration No. 4819). The main task of the bill is to ensure proper resistance to the introduction into the legal circulation of illegal income through the implementation of Ukraine's governing international requirements and standards and, in particular, a more comprehensive reflection in Ukraine of the first FATF recommendation on the criminalisation of money-laundering, including from negligence. It should be noted that this bill amends the Criminal Code of Ukraine, in particular articles 209, 209, 209 and 209, as well as the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine and the Ukrainian Law on Prevention and Opposition to the Legalization of Proceeds Received by Crime. Article 209 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine is amended, and it is presented in a new edition, since the previous edition of this article, like all of them, was adopted in 2003. And according to the drafters of the bill, these articles are already old enough and do not meet the requirements of international cooperation to combat such a phenomenon as the prevention of the legalization of proceeds obtained by criminal means. [[washing]] These changes are likely to be of a technical nature, except for article 209 with the new badge 2, which was not in the previous edition. And it introduces and criminalizes the legalization of proceeds obtained in a criminal way, done out of indiscretion. Additional sanctions have also been established. The proposed changes, in the view of the drafters, will allow the legislation of Ukraine to be brought into line with the international standards and requirements of international organisations.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u247	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u248	which control the prevention of the legalization of income. [[washing]] Please support this bill in the first reading. I believe that all the existing shortcomings of this bill that are, and we understand them, can be corrected when preparing the bill for second reading. Therefore, I urge everyone to vote in favour of this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u249	A report from the committee. Zabuc Roman Omelyanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u250	Dear head, dear fellows! The Supreme Council of Ukraine is being reviewed by the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine (to prevent the legalization (washing) of proceeds obtained by criminal means). The bill is designed to improve legislation on the prevention of the legalization of the laundering of proceeds obtained by criminal means, and to bring some laws of Ukraine into line with international law in defining crimes such as the legalization of the laundering of proceeds obtained by criminal means, the violation of legislation on the prevention of the legalization of the laundering of proceeds obtained by criminal means, and the establishment of criminal responsibility for the legalization of illegally obtained proceeds by scientists of indiscretion. As a result, in 2008 inspections of the Ukrainian National System of Countering and Preventing the Legalization of the Laundering of Proceeds received by Crime and the Financing of Terrorism, experts from the Special Committee of the Council of Europe on Mutual Assessment of Anti-Money Laundering Measures and the Financing of Terrorism in the summary report note the need for a more complete implementation in Ukraine of the first FATF recommendation on criminalising money-laundering, including, and recklessly, the review of existing sanctions. [[MONEYVAL]] The adoption of the law in force will help prevent and counter the legalization of proceeds of criminal origin in Ukraine. The committee decided to adopt the bill in the first reading. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u251	Thank you, sit down, please. National MP Arjevetin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u252	Stanislav Arjewitin, group “For Ukraine”. Your Honor, I also propose that this bill be rejected. And why? I'm not going to comment on his shortcomings, I'm just going to say the main argument: our committee today is looking at a more complex bill that brought in the Cabinet of Ministers, which is called "To prevent and combat the legalization of the laundering of proceeds obtained by criminal means" on 100 pages. We've been on our committee for over a year and a half. So it's complex. The same bill is lame, so I'm asking very much and I'm asking the author: give your suggestions to our bill. And this one has to be rejected because it doesn't solve the questions that sound so beautiful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-21-m0.u253	Can we be sure? We have just one minute to make a decision. I am voting on the adoption in the first reading of the draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the prevention of the legalization of proceeds obtained by criminal means. [[Registration number 4819]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[14:14:14]] For 168 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Dear colleagues, we have work to do on parliamentary committees this afternoon. Tomorrow morning the plenary session will begin at 10 a.m. The morning plenary session is closed.
