ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Please prepare for registration. Please include the “Council” system. [[10:01:20]] There are 412 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The morning plenary session is open. First of all, honourable colleagues, distinguished guests of the Supreme Council, honourable citizens of Ukraine, I would like to welcome everyone today with the 18th anniversary of the Ukrainian people's approval of the decision to declare Ukraine's independence at the General Ukrainian referendum on December 1, 1991. [[Applause]] Today is the birthday of our colleague Kaskov Vladislav Volodymyrovich. Let's welcome him. [[Applause]] He's gone. Information on the summary of the plenary work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from 17 to 20 November 2009. During this time, we had six plenary sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, 36 questions of the agenda were considered: 11 laws were passed in and 10 decrees were adopted, one bill was adopted on a basis, one bill was adopted on a second reading and sent for third reading, one bill was returned to the Committee for Re-reading, two bills and three drafts were rejected; the President's proposals were considered: the President's veto was over three laws, one law adopted with partial consideration of the President's proposals, seven laws rejected; and 117 parliamentary requests were announced. Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules on Tuesday, we have 30 minutes to make statements to authorized factions with proposals, announcements, messages to whom else is needed. Please sign up. Please, Anatoly Kirilovich Kinach.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u2	Honorable National Deputies, distinguished compatriots! More than ever on the anniversary of the referendum on the independence of our nation, we consider it necessary to focus your attention on issues that are of fundamental importance to both the present and the future state of ours. Regardless of political colours and political competition, there are values and issues that should be at the heart of the consolidation of everyone's efforts to effectively develop our state. We need to understand that real independence is not just borders, symbols, an anthem. Real independence is, first of all, a competitive state where consolidated power is a high level of trust in the State by society and the ability to protect its national interests regardless of direction. We have to say that the systemic socio-economic crisis in Ukraine coincides with the deep crisis of the political system of power. And the main risks for Ukraine’s further development are not external, but internal ones, primarily because of the shameful opposition to the principle of mutual destruction between the Presidential and the government’s vertical authorities. The unprecedented decline in the level of professionalism and responsibility, human resources policy in principle: a foreigner who pays more for his portfolio, has led to the destruction of virtually vertical power in Ukraine. In some ministers in the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in the Labour Book, one entry “minister”, it is very serious that international organizations are already paying attention to this. They are alarmed by the parameters that determine the competitiveness of the state, the quality of life of citizens. Ukraine is losing its position in the world, the pace of declining population numbers, the dynamics of increasing HIV/AIDS diseases, economic crime, raiding, the tax system at the conclusion of international experts, one of the worst in the world. As a result, we need to understand that today's talented and hardworking people, a nation with high potential for development -- science, technology, intellectual, industrial, geographical, human resources -- are becoming a hostage to an inefficient innovative non-professional system of power. As a result, Ukraine’s external dependence on economic, political, and external conditions increases, it is beyond national security. We have come to the conclusion that the Prime Minister of Ukraine, at a meeting with the ambassadors of the great seven, is telling them that we do not need to approve the Ukrainian anti-crisis programme, we have a programme of action. And that's enough. In fact, Ukraine is already losing some of its sovereignty, from abroad, dictated to us what should be monetary, tax policy, social policy, how we should defend our interests, by pursuing a policy of state-of-the-art protectionism, that is beyond, I emphasize, both sovereignty and national security. During the 12 months of the crisis in Ukraine, government debt has increased, almost three and a half times, from 83 billion gruels to 280 by 30 September of the current year. With this completely opaque system, our children and grandchildren will be counted. In fact, there is no question of a development strategy. The government is going to Ukraine's financial market with the value of domestic government bonds ranging from 27 to 30 percent, and essentially isolating Ukraine's economy from access to credit. We call on everyone and demand, in these circumstances, to focus on issues of strategic importance to the state, and by passing on the position of dozens of political parties and public organizations, we believe that the time has come for the consolidation of all the pragmatic responsible powers of the State to further develop the interests of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u3	Thank you, Anatoly Kirilovich. Dear colleagues, the delegation of the Republic of Croatia, headed by the head of Parliament, Mr. Luka Bebic, is currently on a working visit to Ukraine. The high-profile delegation is now in our session room. Let's welcome our honored guests. [[Applause]] We wish you good impressions from Ukraine and from the meetings you had in the Ukrainian State. Please continue speaking to the factions. Please, Baby Oleg Valeriyovich. National MP Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u4	Dear Chief, distinguished guests, distinguished colleagues! I would like to welcome the Ukrainian people, on behalf of the Yulia Timoshenko Block, with an important event -- the 18th anniversary of the declaration of independence. We refer to those nations that have chosen independence, by the way, just like our guests today, those nations that have deliberately voted for it. I think it's a question that brought us all together. 18 years ago, in this session hall, we proved that we had the right and we chose our independence over these years. But independence is not just a formal sign, independence is the level that the Ukrainian people live in today. That's why our faction has the authority to state that those decisions that have been adopted by the Ukrainian Parliament and signed by the President of Ukraine with regard to so-called social standards are another confirmation of how seemingly good intentions lead to hell. And I want to illustrate this on specific examples. After a decision adopted by the faction of the Party of Regions and other factions in Parliament and signed by the President, 6 million of our fellow citizens receive a pension of up to 60 copies. I want to illustrate this on a particular example. It was not clear to those who proposed to bring this to Parliament that for the third month the government of Ukraine, taking into account the level of inflation, had paid almost 28.5 dollars, and after the decision to add 29 dollars, 6 million of our pensioners received 60 copies. It was not clear that a number of categories of citizens — almost 1.5 million today — would have been forced to receive a 27 - dollar pension less than they received. But it was not clear to those who voted in favour of the decision that the decision had made a payment to officials and national deputies from 300 to 900 dollars. And this must now be done by the government. That is why, honourable citizens, you should be aware that the decision that blocked the Supreme Council’s rostrum for two months was, in fact, like the old Ukrainian proverb: “The Mountain gave birth to a mouse”. And this mouse is 60 copies, which are now receiving pensioners as a retirement allowance. Is this not a cynical decision, which, on the one hand, adds 900 dollars to the pension of the National Deputy of Ukraine, between 300 and 500 dollars to the pension of a government official, and 60 copies to the pension of a simple pensioner. And this is not one example of how such decisions are approved. I want to give you another example where our joint decision on the prestige of mining, which was supported by the entire sessional hall, was supported by the Cabinet of Ministers and calculated by the Ministry of Finance to the last copy, made it possible from yesterday for those pensioners who worked on underground mines to get 235 dollars in extra payments, a real retirement allowance, but this is a decision that was approved by a hall that was counted for a penny and which is pension and budget funding. Here is an example of how good decisions can be made in Parliament when this is not done in the political corner, not the electoral front, and how decisions can be made that actually destroy the entire state's pension system. But that's not the point. Even worse, after the adoption of so-called social standards, children with disabilities, children with kidney disease and child support are affected. The government has issued a special decision to allocate 510 million dollars to these disadvantaged categories. After our decision, these supplements are actually reduced by 410 million. That is why, respected fellow citizens, respected our opponents and our faction colleagues, we need to think about how to make such decisions. That is why BUT insists that such decisions be approved with a clear budget so that our citizens really feel real social assistance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u5	Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u6	Dear colleagues! Dear voters! First of all, in my statement, I would like to report the good news to those supporters of our political force, to all the Communist Party supporters and to thank sincerely the hundreds of Ukrainian citizens who, by a copy, have collected donations to restore the monument to Volodymyr Ilchi Lenin in the city of Kiev, which in barbaric terms was destroyed by nationalists. Regrettably, the battle against memory continues. There is a chief in Kiev named Rudik, a petty thief. Because they say that when he was kicked out of the State Committee on Nationality and Migration, all he had in his office was presents, souvenirs that his predecessors collected, and they gave him was all over the place. So today, this petty thief specializes in what he does at night to undermine, dismantle, and tear down the monuments placed by our finest sculptors. In particular, he recently did so with the monument of the U.S. presidency of Petrovsky. Regrettably, similar thieves, in the direct sense of the word, carry out this vandalism. I firmly believe that it is not too soon before they will have to answer for what they have to do with all due respect and strictness of the laws. Another problem that everyone is talking about right now is the problem that the previous colleague was talking about. I think we, my dear fellows, need to be clear on this. I have no idea how to understand the Cabinet of Ministers, which, starting with the Prime Minister, ended with every official, ending with our colleagues from the government factions, went out into this rostrum and shouted, and cried out. How is it not possible to implement the So - called Social Standards Act, because this is not going to be a national budget, it was called 70, it was called 80 billion, some even came to 120 billion, which is said to be budgeted to implement this law. Now they're telling a story that, by raising a few dollars to a minimum and a minimum wage, we've led 11 million pensioners to receive a lower pension. I was on the Conciliation Council yesterday. The Conciliation Council made a decision. I'm asking you, Alexander Volodymyrovich, that maybe on Thursday or Friday we would hear the information of the Minister of Social Policy and the work so that she could tell the truth here, so that we can listen to the Pension Fund, so that we can listen to the committee and find out which one of them is lying. And if the minister of social policy is lying, she should go from this rostrum to not the minister of social policy anymore, because there can be that we've increased and the pension is shrinking. All these are, of course, tales that need to be answered for. And I would ask that, no later than Friday, we would definitely listen to the Minister of Social Policy, the arguments of our committee of profile, certainly what we said yesterday with the arguments of our legal authorities, who is telling the truth: did we do evil for the people or did we do any improvement? This is one moment. One second. Dear colleagues, among us are those who receive the deputy's pension. So before you go to this rostrum, go to these deputies and ask them: Did their pension increase or not? And then you're going to come in here and scare people, tell stories. As far as I know, and as far as I know, legislation, the minimum social standards have no bearing on the retirement of civil servants, including the pensions of national MPs, have absolutely no bearing whatsoever. This is related to 11 million pensioners who should receive a higher pension by 75 per 94 bracelets. So I would very much like, my fellow Members, to support our proposals and to make this clear. If the right government is right, you and I must make another decision and perhaps even repeal that law. But if the right government is not right, this government is no place in the government’s bed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u7	Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u8	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich! Adam Ivanovich, don't worry, it's not an economic calculation, it's just the development of polytechnologists who said that it's everywhere to say it, so it's said. So I don't even want to look at it, it's polytechnologists, it's not economists, it's said that this Social Standards Act has this effect on pensioners. Well, that's not true, and I don't think we need to prove it. But I came out for another reason. On the eve of the Ukrainian Armed Forces Day, I would like to welcome our military servicemen, military pensioners, veterans, members of their families with this holiday. Regrettably, only greetings today are so grateful to the Ukrainian army for their 18 - year service to Ukraine. Despite the importance of the army to the state, not only for the defence of its own citizens, but also for the preservation of traditions, the upbringing of courage and stability, in fact all the years of its existence, it stuck almost exclusively to the high moral principles and values of military personnel. The state of de facto moved away from the army, setting new priorities for itself that run counter to the generation of our citizens. These new priorities are populism for the poor and money for the rich. With no resistance in the state, it is no wonder that such trends have shifted into the army. Violence, the use of soldiers as a free labor force on private jobs, has been a rare occurrence. In the face of an economic crisis, when the army would seem to provide a stable place of work, military personnel would, of their own free will, flee. In just nine months this year, 2,000 contractors and 300 officers left the Armed Forces voluntarily. Is this the answer? Is there any prospect that at least the army will be brought to their attention in the near future? Unfortunately, without significant changes in the state's strategy, no. Such a state strategy should establish that financing of the Ministry of Defence should be carried out not less than 2 percent of GDP, but by law, as well as 3 percent, rather than 0.78 as today, which is the lowest indicator for European countries. At the same time, the defence budget must be effective, controlled and open. The army itself should be based on new advances in scientific thinking, not on the strategy of the last century. "Litvina Block" is based on the fact that the social invulnerability of the Ukrainian soldier is in fact a deadly breakthrough in the country's ability to defend itself. Social guarantees must not only be fixed in the law, they must be fulfilled. Then the military will be able to think about safety rather than the need to feed the family. They should not survive to the minimum that the State gives, but they should be provided with such a real salary as to allow for family, housing, recreation, and, therefore, to regain prestige, I repeat, the prestige of a military official’s profession. And the first priority here is to provide all the military personnel with permanent housing. The military has a duty to determine how the budget is protected. Understanding the gravity of total military coverage at the same time, the State must compensate every officer, every tenant for the rent he rents. And that's not populism. Under conditions where arms, technology, land and buildings are sold out from the army, and someone is building multimillion-dollar assets -- the abuse is about underfunding housing. Costs on the army must be carefully controlled, and those involved in the fraud must be held accountable. Along with the fighting army, we're losing huge resources. And it's not just about technology and weapons, it's about not taking advantage of the huge human potential of military, military pensioners. Today, there are thousands of military pensioners in Ukraine, where the best prospect is work in security structures. So the state, spending millions on education of these people, is actually ignoring their experience, because so far there is no state-run program on the involvement of retired military personnel in active public work, human resources.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u9	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u10	In the public and private sectors. The experience of military pensioners in public and public life simply does not benefit from sin. I cannot help but say that there is a need to maintain the full range of military hospitals. To conclude, we, the Block of Lithuania, are convinced that if we scrutinize the military approach, we will not only protect the military, we will preserve the Ukrainian state, the country's traditions, and strengthen the moral foundations of our society. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u11	Martinenko Mikola Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u12	Respectable citizens! Deputies! Eighteen years ago nearly 92 percent of our citizens voted for independence from the totalitarian regime. With what I want to welcome us all. [[Applause]] And I would like to express my wish in this room that we adopt laws that will work to build an independent and prosperous Ukraine. Now let's get to the subject of the speech. The nearness of the presidential elections to the land has exacerbated the situation both in Parliament and in the country. We see that for the sake of power some politicians and their parties are ready for everything, they've already shown in 2004 that they can't win without violating the procedure. Now it's very vivid in two fundamental moments. First. Amendments to the Presidential Election Act are blocked. All the political forces gathered that it was necessary to close the gaps in legislation or not to allow for falsification, but then the Party of Regions suddenly changed its position by 180 percent, degrees, sorry. The excuse is open-minded, because the possibility of a court-martialed election is not just a normal democratic norm, it is a prerequisite for fair elections. The Party of Regions had previously declared the need for changes to the Presidential Elections Act. The deputy Lukas even passed a very good bill. But then the regions for political reasons refused to participate in the development of the relevant legislation, although the gaps in the law and the technical flaws are not shared. They complicate the electoral process. So the Party of Regions wants to fish in the murky water. The Supreme Council has already approved Bill 5263-2. It is our joint responsibility to ensure the transparent and fair elections of the President of Ukraine. A barrier needs to be set for possible falsifications. I don't think any faction has any reason not to support these legislative changes. And this is about, first of all, the Party of Regions. This is the only way that this political power can confirm that the past is over and that it is not going to go back to the practice of forging presidential elections. Another principled moment. The Supreme Council is to adopt the Law on its Rules. The lack of regulation of the activities of the higher legislative body offers broad opportunities for manipulation. We have already witnessed this, for example, during the 2010 review of the State Budget Project. At that time, the first deputy head of the Regulatory Committee was forced to make a comment to the presiding officer, who is a representative of the Party of the Regions. The first speaker put to the vote a decision on departure, a decision on the departure of the State Budget in 2010 for a revision that does not correspond to the Rules or the Budget Code. He refused in his speech to the people’s deputies to justify their amendments and suggestions. In considering the changes to the 2009 budget, the chairman of the plenary simply released a stage in the legislative process as a second reading. Using his position as First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, a member of the Party of the Regions tries to engage in great politics and influence processes in other factions — that is, party interests are openly lobbyed. That is why it is necessary to prevent the “Laurines” from going rogue. One such precaution may be the Supreme Council Rules. It must be adopted in the form of a law. Parliament, all its factions have long pretended that there is no constitutional norm on the need to legislate the Rules. Clearly, if the Rules were law, this would impose additional responsibility for the quality of our legislative work. The legality of the work of the Supreme Council could then be challenged in terms of compliance. Dear colleagues, the approval of the Rules will automatically increase the importance of the individual position of each MP, his vote, whether he is in power or in opposition. Deputies will depend more on the law than on the whims of party leaders or the Presidency of the Supreme Council. The quality of the legislation will only increase. There are legislative initiatives on this issue, including our faction, such as Nicholas Catherinechuk. Or we can accept that rule as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u13	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u14	which we were guided in our work before the Constitutional Court's decision. We need to learn to work in new conditions when the law is really one for all and remember that democracy is a procedure. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u15	Dear Mikolo Volodymyrovich, since you have addressed me, I will tell you that please don't try to translate your personal problems and internal problems into the leadership of the Supreme Council or the entire Supreme Council. Solve them on your own. It's your authority and your responsibility. Dear colleagues, during the presentations of the authorized representatives of the MPs, one proposal came from National MP Martinjuk Adam Ivanovich to invite on Friday to report on the implementation of the Law on Minimum Wages and Social Standards of the Minister of Labour and Social Policy and the Head of the Pension Fund. I'm putting the people's deputy Martinyuk to a vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[10:33:35]] For 393 Decision taken. On Friday, we will begin our work with a report from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, the schedule for today offered by the Conciliation Council, you have. The Ukrainian Act on the Organization and Order of Activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, with proposals from the President of Ukraine, is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 5264]] Reported Deputy Head of the Ukrainian Presidential Secretariat Popov Igor Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u16	Honourable Chairman, Honourable People's Deputies of Ukraine! On October 22, 2009, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the Ukrainian Act “On the Organization and Order of Activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine”. It is stipulated by the law that the organization and order of activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is established by the Constitution of Ukraine, by the laws of Ukraine entitled “On the Status of National Deputies of Ukraine”, “On Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine”, “On Temporary Special and Temporary Follow-up Commissions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine”, by other laws of Ukraine and by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Article 1]] The working order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is established by the Constitution of Ukraine and by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine, adopts the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a special act establishing parliamentary rules and procedures for the exercise by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of constitutional powers to carry out an appropriate legislative, institutional, control or other function. [[Article 2]] Thus, the law authorizes the adoption of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules by a special act, which, by virtue of article 91 of the Constitution of Ukraine, is not the law. This approach does not correspond to article 92 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which refers to the organization and order of activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to exclusive regulation of laws. [[paragraph 21 of Part One]] As the Constitutional Court of Ukraine noted in its decision of 1 April 2008 in the Supreme Council Rules case, the list of issues to be governed solely by the laws of Ukraine, as provided for in article 92 of the Constitution of Ukraine, is peremptory. [[No. 4PP-2008]] This means that all decisions about them must be made in the form of law. It should also be pointed out that in the so - called decision, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, examining the situation of part five of article 83, paragraph 15, of the first article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine in their systematic relationship with the provisions of part two of article 6, part two of article 19, paragraph 21, part one of article 92 of the Constitution of Ukraine, concluded that the Rules governing the organization and operation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine should be adopted solely as law and under articles 84, 93 and 94 of the Constitution of Ukraine as a procedure for its consideration, approval and application. Thus, the law under consideration does not comply with the stated provisions of the Constitution of Ukraine and the so-called decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, which is binding on implementation. In the light of the foregoing, the President of Ukraine proposes to reject the Ukrainian Act on the Organization and Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and to bring about the organization and order of activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as required by the Basic Law of the State and in accordance with the position expressed in the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of April 1, 2008. [[No. 4PP-2008]] I would also like to draw the attention of the honourable national MPs that Parliament is not trying for the first time to determine the organization and order of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in circumventing the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine and the decisions of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. An analysis of the law under consideration shows that its text is in principle no different from the same law of Ukraine adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on September 4, 2008. [[No. 374-6]] On 18 September 2008, the President of Ukraine had already applied the veto and returned the Ukrainian Act on the Organization and Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for a re-examination with the proposal to reject the prescribed law as non-constitutional, a series of decisions of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, in particular the decision of 1 April 2008 in the case of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, did not ensure proper resolution of matters of organisation and order of Parliament. [[No. 4PP-2008]] After the defeat of the veto of the President of Ukraine on February 3, 2009, the Law was published “The Voice of Ukraine” in issue 28 and took effect on February 17, 2009. [[No. 374-6]] I would like to remind you that on 19 February 2009, the President of Ukraine addressed the Constitutional Court of Ukraine with a constitutional application for recognition of the unconstitutional Ukrainian Act of 4 September 2008 on the organization and order of activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules of 19 September 2008. [[No. 547-6]] The grounds for submission were the inadequacy of the provisions of the aforementioned legal acts of the Supreme Council of the Basic Law. It was on October 22, 2009, that the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, at the closed part of the plenary session, was to continue its consideration of the constitutionality of the said legal acts. At the same time, on October 22, 2009, Parliament adopted the Act “On the Organization and Order of Activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine”, which is in fact a new edition of Ukraine’s uniform law of September 4, 2008, which only contains an additional article 2. [[No. 1667-6]] [[No. 374-6]] In addition, article 3 of the law, article 3, states that it had lost its validity since September 4, 2008, which was soon to be decided by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. [[No. 374-6]] As demonstrated by the statements made by a number of national deputies during the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on October 22nd, Parliamentary deputies seemed to have decided to advance the most predictable decision of the Constitutional Court with a view to neutralising it and continuing the work of Parliament in accordance with the Rules, which would still be out of law. On 26 November 2009, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine finally adopted decision No. 30-rp-2009, which, as foreseen by the Ukrainian Act on the Organization and Order of Activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 4 September 2008 No. 3746 and the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules of 19 September 2008 No. 5476 were declared unconstitutional and they have ceased to be valid since the adoption by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of this decision. I would like to point out to you that, in the motivating part of my decision, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine in turn, I would like to point out that “it has come to the conclusion that the Rules, which, inter alia, regulates the organization and order of the Supreme Council, should be adopted exclusively as the Law of Ukraine under articles 84, 93, 94 of the Constitution of Ukraine, should be the procedure for its consideration, approval and taking effect.” The President of Ukraine urges the Supreme Council of Ukraine not to exceed its constitutional powers and to stop ignoring the position and decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Please, honourable national deputies, support the position of the head of state and the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, reject this law and start drafting a new law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u17	Let's sign up for a question to the reporter. Katerinczuk Mikola Dmitrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u18	Mikola Catherinechuk, European Party of Ukraine, faction "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense". Well, with the Constitutional Court's decision, I don't think we're going to argue, and I think it's absolutely right. The only thing I wanted to point out is that imagine a system of political coordinates where the higher legislature did not act in a constitutional way. So Parliament is operating today completely out of the legal field of Ukrainian legislation. And I think today the question is out of date. If we want to comply with certain procedures and regulations for the adoption of laws in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, this issue is already, I think, the Constitutional Court has decided in its decision one more time. Because what is happening today in the Supreme Council is a systematic blockade on political grounds, it is a violation of the Rules by the presiding officers. This has to be done. I think that in the new law that our faction is proposing, it is necessary to foresee the possibility of an accusation.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u19	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u20	Dear Mikolo Dmitrovic, thank you for supporting the positions of the Constitutional Court. Indeed, even yesterday at the Conciliation Council, a number of points were discussed, the organization of the work of the Supreme Council. It's a question of fellow MPs, it's a question that two deputies can't be included in the Supreme Council committees that they want to work in. It's a question of how each of the deputies understands the quota principle of each faction. And that is, if the Rules are adopted in the form of a law, I really think that these issues will be easier for the Supreme Council itself to decide.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u21	Crnowil Taras Vejacheslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u22	Your Honor, I'm not going to discuss the Constitutional Court's decision here either. We counted it. We're going to take a new edition, and then it's going to go as it should. And I'm still in this room: I've been put away by a party of regions to stay away from them. You can look at the center of the room, back. That's it. As far as this is concerned. You know the Constitution, too. There is a double norm, perhaps not clearly defined. On the one hand, the Supreme Council coordinates its activities in a manner defined by laws. This is the Law on the Status of Deputies, this is the Committees Act. Furthermore, another rule is that the Supreme Council accepts the Rules to carry out its activities. There is no clear, as I think, indication that this should be the law that is passed, which is approved by the President, which any change to him, including proceduread-hoc, should also be approved by the President and so forth. So, in my opinion, it is a political decision to refer the President to the Constitutional Court. There will be a new president. If we do not submit to the Constitutional Court, we will continue to act in accordance with the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u23	Dear Taras Vejacheslavovich, I can agree with you in the sense that different lawyers treat it differently, in fact, as enshrined in the Constitution. But it's the only authorized body that officially treats the Constitution. And so we already have two conclusions from the Constitutional Court, where they clearly explain that what is enshrined in the Constitution needs to be understood as how the organization and the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is governed by law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u24	Sas Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u25	Thank you. Your Honor, I have two questions for you. The first question is, I hope you remember the rules of the Constitution in the 96th edition of this issue. I'll just remind you. There were 82 articles that determined that the work of the Supreme Council was governed by the Rules and the Law on the Rules. Article 88 also determined that the Head of the Supreme Council is governed by the Constitution, the Rules of Action, the Law of the Rules. And there was article 85, which does Parliament in principle. It was written in 85 articles: In addition to other acts, the Supreme Council adopts laws. After the changes were made in 2004, there was another 83 - article rule, where the order of work of the Supreme Council was determined by the Rules, and in article 88 the word “law” disappeared. Article 85, on the other hand, gave rise to the norm that the Supreme Council accepts.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u26	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u27	And paragraph 15 of this article states that it accepts the Supreme Council Rules. It's a question of order. What the legislator meant by accepting such a standard. And the second question. In accordance with article 153 of the Constitution, does the Constitutional Court work in the constitutional field when it takes a decision on the basis of the Rules adopted by an act adopted by the Constitutional Court? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u28	Part of this is repeated by the former, past question of the previous National MP. In fact, I agree that when constitutional changes were adopted in 2004, a number of norms were adopted that could be interpreted in two ways. But the decisions of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine should be implemented, not discussed. It is the same if the Supreme Council passed a law and the government would not want to do it, but would start to discuss why the government did not like it. The constitutional system of Ukraine provides for the unconditional implementation of the decisions of the bodies to which we have placed these powers.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u29	Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u30	Dear Igor Volodymyrovich! Oleg Zarubinsky, Block of Lithuania. I'm sure you know there was such an English philosopher Thomas Hobbs, right? I know you know it was Charles Montesquie. You know, it's people who have led to the fact that the state system, the state system, is a system of power-sharing. There are different branches of authority. Parliament in any country is a legislative branch of power. The president doesn't refer to her. Give me, not a legal one, but just an answer from the point of view of common sense. What, the President has nothing to do? Why does he constantly intervene in the internal procedures of another branch of authority? It's not a political issue, it's a moral question. Could it be better to engage in the positions of deputy heads and his office with people who do not buy diplomas on higher education? It's not a political question, but I'm asking you to answer it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u31	Dear Oleg Alexanderovich! One of the main functions of the President is to guarantee that the rules of the Ukrainian Constitution are fulfilled unconditionally. In this case, the President is doing his job. He ensures that the legislative body of high experts does not violate the Constitution, and all its decisions are in conformity with the Constitution. In this case, the President is also guided by decisions of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. About my diplomas, if that's what you mean. I have three degrees in higher education, all real. If I have to, I'll show you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u32	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u33	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense. Dear reporter! I agree that the Law on the Rules should be passed, and I would like to hear your opinion. Do you, by the way, know the President as a guarantor of the Constitution what is going on in the Constitutional Court? In fact, open hearings in the Constitutional Court, including this case, have been suspended. The Constitution and the Constitutional Court Act are gravely violated. There is a regulation that is actually adopted as a legislative body by the Constitutional Court. So I see that the position of the Head of the Constitutional Court, Mr. Stryzak, is not constitutional in this regard. And why is there no President's reaction as a guarantor of the Constitution? Do you not see that, in carrying out the decisions of the Constitutional Court that have been taken in violation of the procedure, although it is essentially correct, we also become violators of the Constitution, as well as of the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u34	In this case, we're discussing something else. And to me, it's kind of unethical, if some people are calling for the failure of the authorities, it's accompanied by criticism of the personnel or the activities of these authorities. Similarly, the government may say that the Supreme Council is not so, so it has adopted not such laws, we will not do so. That's why we need to ask these two questions. One is actually the Supreme Council regulation that we're talking about right now. Secondly, if there are claims before the Constitutional Court by the Supreme Council, by individual deputies, there are legal mechanisms as well as requirements for information, and to require reporting, and to influence the activities of the Constitutional Court within the framework of the Constitution of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u35	Knyazevich Ruslan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u36	Dear Mr. Igoru, please tell me, frankly, that Oleg Alexanderovich is essentially right, because there is no country in which the Rules would be governed by law. But it's absolutely not the President's fault. This is a question and a problem of those drafters of the Constitution in 2004, in accordance with their changes, who in an incorrect way wrote the Constitution so that in one article the word “law” was removed and the other simply forgot to clean. Frankly, one of the developers had a discussion on this issue, and he says: “Really, on the last night we wrote you “on your knees” and didn’t finish, and 92 articles just forgot to clean.” But I have a question. In fact, the caution of most of the Chamber of Deputies is that there is a potential danger that some of these, let's say, the President's standards are going to want to be seen in the Rules that will not be accepted by the House of Sessions. So please tell me whether the secretariat thought of drafting its own Law on the Rules, sending it to Parliament, so that Parliament could see that there is really nothing so terrible, "with the horns", that there will be nothing. And then, I think it's too easy to ask the procedure for adopting the Rules of Procedure Act in the session room. Or others like me.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u37	To my profound conviction, the authorship of the Law on the Rules should be exclusively the Supreme Council of Ukraine, although of course all the subjects of the legislative process are equal in this regard. As for your criticism of the changes to the 2004 Constitution. Although the public discussion of the Constitution ended yesterday under the President's decree, I think we will make an exception and add this proposal to the proposals that have come and will be included in the updated text of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u38	Have a seat, please. A report from the Committee of Ephraim by Alexander Sergiyovich
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u39	Honourable Alexander Volodymyrovic, honourable colleagues, at the meeting of the Committee on 18 November this year, discussed the proposals of the President of Ukraine for the Ukrainian Act on the Organization and Order of the Supreme Council. [[registered number 5264]] The legal position of the President of Ukraine is that adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 22 October 2009 by the Ukrainian Act “On the Organization and Order of the Supreme Council” authorizes the adoption of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules by a special act, which, by virtue of the content of article 91 of the Constitution of Ukraine, is not the law. Therefore, the President of Ukraine proposes to reject the law. The Committee disagreed with the proposals made by the President of Ukraine, since according to article 92, paragraph 21, of the Constitution of Ukraine, according to the provisions of article 92, paragraph 21, of the Ukrainian Constitution, it is stipulated that the organization and order of activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine are determined exclusively by the laws of Ukraine. Thus, this rule covers the provisions of articles 83, 85, 88, part of the fifth article of article 89 of the Constitution of Ukraine, according to which the organization and procedure of the Committee of the Supreme Council, its temporary special and temporary committees are established by law and, at the same time, the legislator has separately defined the Constitution of Ukraine that the order of operation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is established by the Constitution of Ukraine and by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Committee adopted a conclusion and decided not to support the President of Ukraine's proposal to reject the Ukrainian Act on the Organization and Order of Activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the re-adopted law as a whole. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u40	Sign up for a question to a co-rapporteur. Knyazevich Ruslan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u41	Alexander Sergiyovich, well, it's clear that, you know, running around, everything else is going to be submitted to the Constitutional Court, and the Constitutional Court finds it unconstitutional again. Please tell me, did it not come to the committee's mind to consider the possibility and still to propose a draft Law on the Rules, which, even if the veto could potentially be overtaken, has been vetoed, better to deal with and deal with than that that which only makes a blank?? The rule of law for the Supreme Council? [[send-off norm]]
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u42	We are almost ready to consider, there are little nuances left that remain to be agreed upon, a new Supreme Council regulation. The Committee will be ready to submit a new version of the Rules for adoption soon. While in the future, what you are saying is that we need to conceptually determine in the Hall if we are going along the way that regulations are adopted by the laws of all, everywhere, then we must agree that, under the Rules, as a law, the Constitutional Court should work, that the Rules, as a law, should operate the Cabinet of Ministers and so on. If that's legal, I don't think so. Each body, by governing its internal documents, shall determine the rules of its work. Here this is the case, I would say, the manic desire of the President's Secretariat, through the Supreme Council Rules as a law to govern directly and directly the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u43	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u44	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense. Dear Alexander Sergiyovich, I have a more difficult question for you. Please tell me, first of all, I think we need to adopt the Rule of Law Act. But what I want to understand is why is Law 2104-1, which was introduced on March 7, 2008, by the people's deputy Catherinechuk, who was not brought into the hall? Do you not think it is necessary to adopt the interim regulation by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in order to oblige the Supreme Council of Ukraine to manage it for a period of two or three weeks, until we have finally adopted the draft Act on the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which will then affect the rights and freedoms of people, they will be able to challenge our decisions, the laws in accordance with the law. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u45	In this case, we have had a discussion in this regard on the Committee no longer once. We have returned to this issue several times, and I report on the views of most of the members, the absolute majority of the members of the Committee, as set out in this decision today. And I can have my point of view or not have my point of view on some issue. But if the committee votes unanimously in favour of a decision, I have the authority to report this decision to the Chamber, which I am doing today.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u46	Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u47	Dear Alexander Sergeyevich, this is not an understanding of the position of the President. Or does he have nothing to do? Or has all the problems already been solved in the country? The country is united, a consolidated society, the economy is growing, social standards are being raised. No, these issues have not been resolved. Or did he strengthen the image of Ukraine in the international arena? Nothing's done either. Yeah. Or did he at least make arrangements in his secretariat? That's what you're gonna call a mess, yeah. What's he doing in the Supreme Council? Or he is guided by one principle that he sees a sorina in another’s eyes, and he does not even see a log in his own eyes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u48	I don't know how much I need to respond to what Mikhail Vasilevich said, but I would like to continue with the topic of what, of course, we need to build a system of government. And when we have such disadvantages, when the Constitutional Court decides on a legislative body which, in principle, determines activities, including the Constitutional Court, by enacting relevant laws, these issues must be resolved before they are dealt with at the legal level and then political decisions are taken. It seems to me that in a decision where there are clear references to the Constitution to the Supreme Council's Rules, except that the Supreme Council's law, and there is such a notion of the Supreme Council, the Constitutional Court could refrain from making final decisions, in this case recognizing the unconstitutionality of the rules as such. That's my point of view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u49	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Dear colleagues! We have a simple task now. We have two suggestions. One proposal from the President of Ukraine, argued by his authorized representative in Parliament Popov Igor Volodymyrovich. And the second proposal for a profile committee presented by Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov. I am voting on the proposal of the President of Ukraine to the Act on the Organization and Order of Activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, registration number 5264, on the rejection of the law. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:01:28]] For-33 The President's proposal is not supported. I am voting on the proposal of the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Security of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to overcome the veto on the Ukrainian Act on the Organization and Order of Activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Registration number 5264. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:02:05]] For 384 Decision taken. The Ukrainian Law on amending the Ukrainian Budget Code, with proposals from the President of Ukraine, is being announced for consideration. Kirilchuk Eugen Ivanovich reports.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u50	Eugen Kirilczuk, “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko”. Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, the honourable presiding officer! The Supreme Council, after considering the President of Ukraine's October 21st proposal for the Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Budget Code number 2709, did not support any of them, but did not overcome the President's veto. And the law is aimed at furthering the Committee on Budget Affairs to complete, introduce and re-examine the Supreme Council. Regarding the work, it should be noted that according to the Rules Committee, MPs, and the work of the Supreme Council, the preparation of such a document is based not only on the President’s proposals but also on proposals by other subjects of the law of the legislative initiative. Since the adoption of the law, the committee has continued to be approached by various authorities and public organizations, which contain both a positive assessment of the bill and a note of its implementation on the rules of the new budget. In particular, many warnings are made and are submitted to the 2010 State Budget Bill, which is mainly based on a new edition of the Budget Code. But the most positive response comes from local councils that require direct budgetary relations on this issue, and the removal of mediators who change in their opinion is that they are fiscal indicators that fall within the authority of local councils and then their resources are being violated. In addition, individual rural councils also see direct relations on the negative side, especially cities and towns. Finally, the President's proposals set out a separate view of the approaches and timetables for such relations. The president made a number of comments on the responsibilities of the Court of Auditors. In this regard, on November 20, the Supreme Council returned to the government a draft State Budget Act for 2010, on the ground that there was no balanced budgetary relationship. Thus, the amended State Budget Bill, as determined by the last Supreme Council decision, should be based on the old Budget Code. But many of the rules of the old budget code, which was adopted more than 10 years ago, are no longer in line with existing legislation, even the Constitution. Changes are mandatory. But we have, for example, a party of regions that had the most – six important differences. Three of them are already in agreement. We're still working on three. And I think that if we decide today to move the re-examination of the Law amending the Budget Code to the next, sixth, session of the Supreme Council, this could come out as a normal, balanced and coherent document, which is the whole constitution that is practically budgetary for many years of the Supreme Council. [[by number 2709]] Thus, the working group of the Committee on Budget Affairs continues to accept comments and suggestions in order for this bill to work perfectly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u51	We'll sign up for Eugene Ivanovich. Hell-bent Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u52	Dear colleague, we have indeed worked with you seriously and substantively, and we understand that the country needs a new budget code and, for the purposes and tasks that have been originally set, there is much in this option that deserves understanding and support. But I would not like to turn my statement into another criticism of the current Government and, unfortunately, acting in one direction or another in the direction of elections. It is this approach that has marred all the goals and objectives that were originally set out in this good, in principle, document. Our firm conviction, therefore, is that, in view of the changes that have taken place, it has no right to the future, best in the future to return to the best that there is and to write a new budget code.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u53	Excuse me? Alexander Mikolaiovich, you know that you were preparing an alternative code, and when I checked out what you were preparing, and what we accepted in the first and second readings, I would say that 95 percent of the positions on this issue are consistent. We have some positions that didn't match in terms of strengthening the control of the Court of Auditors and in terms of inter-budget relations -- that was the two biggest differences. But if 95 percent of the positions that are in the two readings of the code with yours are left, that's five percent left, and I think we need to work out, not start over. I'm sorry, but this is my position.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u54	Lyszko Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u55	Thank you. Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Sadly, the new Codex of Budget became a hostage of politics, a hostage of presidential elections. And if the President hadn't vetoed it, we would have known from a new year, all the local budgets would have had considerable additional resources to solve the urgent problems that are now in the village, the village, the city. In order not to screw up this budget code, in order to allow the territorial communities to have a chance to obtain additional resources, I am confident that the proposal of the rapporteur needs to be supported and that the consideration of this issue should be postponed once the country has identified itself with the new President, there will be a new configuration of power and then the new budget code will be signed immediately after the presidential elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u56	I want to confirm the words of Zarubinsky's deputy, which is exactly where there are no constitutional claims to this code, but as in any economic issue, how in any legislative matter does the President interfere with another branch of power. This is exactly the same example.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u57	Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u58	Dear reporter! This year was an unprecedented time when, for the first time in the history of an independent Ukraine, the Government had established a budget on a mythical non-existent basis, including an unaccepted budget code, which did not take into account elevated social standards. It was therefore fair that the draft budget was sent to the Government for a thorough reprocessing. Today, we must put an end to the illusions of the Government that we can once again bring this zero budget code to the new draft budget. Place him in the basket. The Government should therefore submit a budget on an existing legislative basis, and after New Year's, a new team led by the new President, Viktor Yanukovic, would adopt the normal budget code that the country needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u59	Mr. Chechetov, I could have said your position before you spoke, it sounds clear and daily as a spell: “Our President. our President is the future." But if one and a half thousand proposals from the national MPs are made here, who's a nobody: The budget code voted twice here or are you? Give yourself an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u60	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u61	Yuri Carmazin. Dear reporter, I want to thank you for working on the Budget Code. We have forgotten, honourable national deputies, that it was you and I who voted in favour of this code, and we changed it. Let's not insult him, because we insult ourselves with this. I agree that we should send him out for further work, but I would like to express the hope that in the amended code, in the final positions, there will be no change to the Criminal Code, no subject of the Budget Code, no change to the Code of Administrative Violations, this is again another subject of regulation. And I'd like us not to go into a foreign field in the future, a foreign field, I mean other committees that deal with these issues in a profiled way. And I believe that the budget could be prepared to satisfy cities, villages and villages by stopping part of the budget code, as proposed by the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u62	I fully agree with you, and already a working group on these issues has found that in our final positions we will ask other committees of profile to regulate the relationship between budgets and other codes, as they say, as a whole. But what you're saying is that 18,000 local budgets are asking for a new system of budgetary relations, that's a fact and no one is denying it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u63	Moisik Volodymir Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u64	Vladimir Moisik, MP “For Ukraine!” Please pass the word to Kseniya Lapiniya.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u65	Thank you. Xenia Lapina, group “For Ukraine!” If we reject political discussions, there are two postulates. Number one postulate. The way this Codex of Budgets is now presented, it will not pass. Because it doesn't meet the first problems we've discussed here over and over again. But there's number two postulate. The current budget code is also unsatisfactory. So we're still destined to develop a new but completely different option. Whichever way we go, whether we're going to be working now, we're going to have to rework thoroughly. Is the budget committee ready for this? Or we need to redesign it. Then the question is, how long are we going to be looking at this? And one and the other have their pluses and minuses. But I would like to point out that the position of our group is clear that this Budget Code will not work until it is adopted.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u66	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u67	In fact, the government needs to develop a budget for the current code and place it in the hall, because the state cannot live without a basic, well-established budget for the following year.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u68	You're half right and half wrong. Because you deny to yourself that so many positions of the old code are no longer in line with the laws or the Constitution. So something focused should be the end result of our work. Therefore, we ask, taking into account the position of the deputies, taking into account the coming of mass documents to improve the code, to move his consideration to the next session so that we have time to work on and take into account all your thoughts and positions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u69	Sergey Vladislavovich was involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u70	Dear reporter! Sobolev, Reform and Order Party, Timoshenko Street. Please tell me that there are enough deputies in this session hall who remember well as in the distant year 1999, when serious changes were made to the budget code for the first time and instead of 25 entities to which funds had previously been directly channeled, we started to do so for all areas and districts. [[I mean 25 districts, the city of Kiev, Sevastopol and Autonomy of Crimea]] Thus, more than 600 subjects received direct budgeting. What a noise there was in this session room that would be impossible to do. Do you not think that the time has come when it is really necessary to radically change and approach every inhabited point, as recorded in the Constitution? And each village council should have its own budget and not depend on when and how much they receive from Kiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u71	I fully agree with you, I recall when one of the first codes in the Supreme Council Hall was adopted by a budget committee headed by Julia Timoshenko. And indeed, there was a scandal, a noise, because there were 600 executives who had the right to manage the budget by hand. But the Constitution states that the budget process should go down. So how do you get closer to this formula? Give communities the right to form their budgets and move downhill. But who today is the greatest opposer of such a position? Because the district authorities can't take the floor anymore. a beloved head of the village council, because he has his budget approved and he can't take it off.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u72	Thank you, Eugene Ivanovich. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, you have heard the reasoning, the proposals of the Budget Committee, which suggested that we postpone the review of the Budget Code. This proposal was also presented yesterday at the Conciliation Council. This proposal is, of course, in conflict with the regulatory rule, which only provides for a maximum of 30 days to be worked out, but in this case there is a committee proposal, which is the position of a series of our parliamentary factions. And by a decision of the Conciliation Council, which was adopted yesterday, the proposal to continue working with the law that regulates our budgetary legislation may be extended. I'm voting on the budget committee's proposal. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:20:21]] For 205 The decision is not taken. So we have to make a final decision. I'm voting on a proposal to defeat the President's veto for a draft Ukrainian budget code. [[Registration number 2709]] I'd like to make a statement. [[11:20:52]] For 199 The decision is not taken. The law has been revoked. A draft Law on Amendments is being announced for consideration. For the reasons of the vote of the previous national MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u73	Thank you. The decision that the Supreme Council has just taken will, in the first place, be extremely negative in the state of the local budgets. All the plans that the local communities had built for 2010 include road repairs, repairs to FAPs, children’s facilities, outpatients, and local budget clubs, all of which had just been put to the cross by this vote. There's no money in the local budgets, and there's not going to be, except for the salaries of the energy companies. And to thank local communities, heads of village councils, village heads, city heads, they have that part of the Supreme Council that did not support the new edition of the Budget Code. We've been talking to you all for years about supporting local self-government. When it comes time to support it, we don't do it in the Supreme Council. I'm sure after the presidential election.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u74	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u75	After winning these elections, Volodymyrovna Timoshenko will first sign the new Code of Budget and provide additional resources to solve the problems of local communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u76	Dear colleagues, I think Oleg Valeriyovich here has made a slight mistake by decrees of the Code. So since you've discovered the problem of voting motives, we now have a few more national MPs. Please, First the People's Deputies of Pecklusenko and then the People's Deputy of Žebrovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u77	Dear colleagues! Respectable voters! Only what may have happened has happened, and the current authority has no authority. Therefore, their agony in an attempt to divert them from the main work and from the budgetary process. ?? It's a bill. We are told that this bill is 95 per cent ideal. Yes, not that five percent of them can be corrupted by any code. Remove the word “democracy” from the Constitution, which will remain. So you, by adding the word “budgetary dictatorship” to the Budget Code, have turned this document into a piece of philosophy and meaning into a worthless paper. Therefore, we are really using the best, the new President, the new Government and the new Parliament, regardless of the elections, will be a new Parliament, creating the new budget code that a country needs.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u78	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u79	The new Budget Code on the basis of proposals made by local councils, based on what Victor Fedorovic has introduced into this Budget Code, will be adopted by a majority, not by decree, but by a majority in Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u80	National deputy, Zebrovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u81	Dear colleagues, in fact, that draft Law on the Budget Code, which was introduced for first reading, was reasonable enough, balanced and balanced. After the work was done by polytechnologists, not economists, we got what we got. Today, we are saved for the fact that 12 with something thousands of pleasures will receive money. That's a lie. If they're 95 percent budget subsidies, they won't get anything, and because of that, without administrative and territorial reform, it's hopeless. Because here our colleagues say that the next step is for every citizen in the central budget to get the money. The situation is not the same! You can do anything you want. Therefore, he should not be an apologetic pre-electionist of the Budget Code. This is actually the Constitution, the budgetary constitution. The whole country must live by this constitution. And to put into the electoral process what to do with it is shameful and unsuspecting. This is not the course of intelligent politics.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u82	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u83	I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm Ukraine. I urge that the elections be held, that all heads lose their minds, and then we will actually adopt the real budget code. The budget today needs to be included in the existing budget code in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u84	Dear colleagues, the representatives of the three factions expressed themselves on the grounds of the vote. Of the two factions that have not been expressed, there is no need to vote? There's a need. Please, Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u85	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues! By supporting the previous speakers, especially the last two, I would like to point out that we have submitted to you those who have not voted in favour of this virtual budget code have done the right thing. Because it wasn't a budget code written -- it was a pre-election program written by one of the presidential candidates who, if he became president, would do anything to keep this code from working, because he's unrealistic. He's lifeless. Imagine, for a moment, who knows the organs of local self - government, if they divide the cost of capital into each population, they're going to get 100 dollars. What 100 dollars can you do. Another issue is when these expenses go centralized to the district council. The district council may well know that these expenses can be concentrated and done. It was just another good story, which is good that it didn't become a reality. And let's do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, let us now consider the next issue of the order of the day. The Draft Law on Amendments to the Law on the State Register of Voters is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 3469]] According to Sergey Petrovich Podgorny.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u87	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! Ukraine's draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Register of Voters to create the State Register of Voters as a result of the first reading was adopted as a basis on June 25, 2009. The Supreme Council of Ukraine has entrusted the Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government with the task of drafting a bill that takes into account the comments and suggestions of the subjects of the right to legislative initiative and to present it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine in its second reading. The committee submitted a bill twice for consideration by Parliament. In view of the fact that, on 10 September 2009, the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts since 21.08.2009, which included amendments to the Ukrainian Act on the State Register of Voters, the individual provisions of the bill prepared by the Committee and filed on 13 July 2009, have become obsolete. The committee therefore reviewed the bill at its meeting on October 14, 2009. I would like to remind you that the bill proposes to improve the legal regulation of the work of the State Election Register. It is now extremely important and relevant because the electoral process of the election of the President of Ukraine is already in progress and the timing of the previous voter lists is approaching. The adoption of the law will contribute to the fact that the electoral lists in the polling stations were real, high - quality. In doing so, the bill is in line with the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine (the President's election (registration number 5263-2), which will be considered by Parliament today with the following question. It should also be noted that representatives of the Central Election Commission participated in the work on the bill. Some 144 amendments and proposals were submitted to the project by the Ukrainian People's Deputies, and the 22 of these amendments have already been taken into account by Act No. 1616 of 21 August 2009. As a result of the consideration of amendments and proposals at the committee meeting, 72 amendments were included, 13 were taken into account in editorial terms, and 4 were taken into account in part. The Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the outcome of a second reading of the draft Ukrainian Law on the Status of Implementation of Election Registers and the compilation of voter lists prior to the creation of the State Register of Elections to be accepted in second reading and in general. In view of the fact that the extended title of the bill has already become obsolete and does not exactly conform to its contents, it is proposed to leave it in its final form.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u88	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u89	leave in the final version the short title of the Act “On Amendments to the Law of Ukraine on the State Register of Voters”. If none of the authors of the rejected proposals insists on their consideration, it might be advisable to vote in favour of the adoption of the bill immediately on second reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u90	From the procedure for reviewing the draft law? Please, Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u91	An honourable reporter, respected colleagues, is a very serious law, so there must be no haste. And the faction of the Party of the Regions insists that each amendment, irrespective of whether the Committee has studied it or not, put to the vote separately, no adoptions as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u92	After all, this is a requirement of the Rules, so if there is such a will of deputies, we will consider each amendment and each article. Yes, dear fellows, the first amendment to Article 5: “The news of the register”, introduced by the People's Deputies of Klukkowski, Uphill, Sinchenk, the committee recommends that consideration be given. Amendment No. 1 shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:32:54]] For-160. Amendment No. 1 is not supported. Amendment No. 2, introduced by the people's deputies Lukas and Portnov. The authors of the amendment insist on arguments regarding their amendment? Don't insist. The committee recommends that this amendment be disregarded. Amendment No. 2 shall be put to the vote. [[11:33:32]] For the five of us. Correction not supported. Amendment No. 3, tabled by the People's Deputies of Klukkowski, Podgorny, Sinchenk. The committee recommends that we consider it. Amendment No. 3 shall be put to the vote. [[11:33:59]] For 186 Correction not supported. Amendment number four, national deputies Lukas and Portnova. The committee considered it editorially. Do the authors need an argument on how to take this amendment into account? There's no need for that. Amendment No. 4, the national deputies Lukas and Portnova, are to be voted on. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:34:35]] For-79 Correction not supported. Amendment No. 5, National Deputies: Klukkowski, Podgorny, Sinchenko. The committee recommends that the amendment be taken into account. Amendment No. 5 shall be put to the vote. [[11:35:06]] For a hundred and Correction not supported. Dear colleagues, we can only improve the procedure in such a way that I will then read the text of the amendment, if not all are in front of the eyes. Please log in. National MP Gordijenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u93	Sergey Gordienko, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Dear comrades, of course, one of the most important documents is the Ukrainian Electoral Registration Act. However, its implementation has been very difficult from the outset, and the initial attempts to falsify the elections have been made. That is why we need to approach this very carefully today. I would like to read literally a few words from the letter of Žilchenko to Love Stepanovna from the village of Pistane Kremenchucki district, which emphasizes that letters from the residents of the Kremenchuck region, who died 3-4 years ago but were included in the voter register, including her husband. In parallel, with the opportunity, I would like to turn to the Central Electoral Commission today on the issue of what is in the regional government authorities that are the organs that.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u94	I'm sorry, National Deputy Matthew Valentin Grigorovich is also passing on a minute to motivate the national MP, Gordonko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u95	The bodies that form and maintain the State register of the electorate themselves today faced a huge problem -- a problem because with great difficulty they created and created this register of voters themselves, but there is absolutely no funding to print and put into practice, to issue this register of voters. The Poltavian District Administration, along with many Ukrainian administrations, has asked the Central Electoral Commission the question that there are no funds for this, that the Central Election Commission has answered that there are enough funds in place. I think that this issue needs to be addressed immediately and that funding should be provided for the publication of the voter list.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u96	Pavlovsky Andry Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u97	Andrew Pavlovsky. I ask you to give the floor to the deputy of Matvienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u98	National MP Matvienko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u99	Ukrainian Republican Party “Cobor”, “Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense” Block. Alexander Volodymyrovich, I want to address you: Matthew has the right to pass on his moment when Chechtov and Matviyenko agree, not as he stands on the list unknown where, and you count an extra minute. And now, essentially. Please, Alexander Volodymyrovich, stand representative of the committee, you call the amendment, give the right, don't turn off the microphone on the stand, let him comment on the committee's position, and then just put it to the vote. It's my right to hear the committee's argument. You don't, and in that way, the hall doesn't know what he's voting for or why. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u100	Dear Anatoly Sergiyovich, you have one more minute because you have been handed over and you are also recorded through one deputy. Is there no need? As for the argument of each amendment, it is correct, reasonable. That's why I asked. After all, if there is no table, no point of view, you can base any correction. There is no objection. Please, Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u101	Dear Alexander Vladimirović, thank you so much for seeing us in an uninterrupted manner. But I see such a paradox that virtually all the amendments initiated by the BUT faction, the BUT factions and our Ukraine are not accepted or voted on. Well, there must have been some paperwork, and they don't just want to vote. Therefore, the rapporteur may, for colleagues from the BUT and Our Ukraine factions, fully read out the amendments in order to support them at least, and it is not clear what will happen to the law at that time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u102	People's deputy Kamchatny.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u103	Thank you. Kamchatny, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko”, Kharkiv region. Dear colleagues, our distinguished voters who observe this, I'm sorry, I don't even know how to pick up a word, a process. I want everyone to notice that the faction of the Party of the Regions does not support any amendment that is smart about the voter register, and even the amendments that have been made by colleagues on their factions, say, Olena Lukash. It's smart stuff. Once the voter register was created, more than 600,000 dead souls and doubles were found in the Donetsk region alone, resulting in a previous election of counterfeiting. And now there's an attempt to continue this election with these forgings. So I urge everyone to stop this, to vote on all the wise amendments and to ensure a transparent and democratic process of registering voters, and accordingly the President's election, which will be won by our candidate, Timoshenko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u104	Dear colleagues, after a certain retreat, we continue our work. Amendment No. 6 was introduced by the People's Deputy of Klukkowski, Podgorny, Sinchenk. Please state the substance of the amendment if necessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u105	First, I want to go back to the first amendment and give me my word if the hall has decided. Because the first amendment is a technical amendment that just changes the reference to the numbering of articles and parts. The numbering has been changed and the link has not been changed. That's the first one. The second amendment, more faithfully, is the third amendment that applies if a person does not have a document that bears witness to his birth date, and there is a great deal of it in the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u106	Dear Sergey Petrovich, please Amendment 6. If you want the first one, make an offer so that we can go back to looking at all the amendments. Then we'll do it. There is an offer to return to consideration from the first and beyond. Do I understand you correctly? The proposal to return to the consideration of all amendments, starting with the first, is based on a vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:42:23]] For 214 The decision is not taken. Please, your argument for Amendment 6.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u107	Amendment 6 is strictly technical, it changes the links in the law. We have to vote for it so that we don't have a sum of it in the law itself.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u108	All of it, all of it?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u109	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u110	Amendment No. 6 recommended by the committee is voting. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:43:01]] For 210 Correction not counted. Amendment No. 7 of the national deputies Lukas and Portnov. The committee recommends that we consider it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u111	The committee proposes to complete the article with the words “the area in the city” because this is an administrative unit.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u112	Amendment No. 7 shall be put to the vote. [[11:43:38]] For 215 Correction not supported. Amendment No. 8 of the national deputies Lukas and Portnov. Please, your argument.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u113	The committee suggests that this amendment be taken into account. It refers to the removal, in parentheses, of the “military part number, number of installations”. Because it was included in the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u114	Amendment No. 8 of the people’s deputies Lukas and Portnova are voting. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:44:19]] For 212 Correction not supported. Amendment No. 9 of the national deputies Lukas and Portnova.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u115	This amendment is also included. It's purely technical, it's added one more point, and it's made by points. It was the fifth and the eleventh, and the sixth and the eleventh.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u116	The committee is actually appropriate, if you believe because it's written in the table, I recommend you reject this amendment. It's for clarification, for you to make a decision. Amendment No. 9 shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:45:05]] For the 10th. Correction not supported. The next amendment is the 10 national deputies Lukas and Portnov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u117	Correction rejected. That's the norm.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u118	Dear Sergey Petrovich, the amendment has not been rejected, the amendment has been tabled, and the committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine disregard it, not support it. Amendment No. 10 shall be put to the vote. [[11:45:41]] For two. Correction not supported. Amendment No. 11 of the national deputies Lukas and Portnova. Puts to the vote if there is no objection to the argument.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u119	The committee proposes to reject the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u120	Please vote. [[11:46:10]] For-0 Correction rejected. Amendment No. 12 of the People's Deputies of Upper and Sunny. Please, your arguments.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u121	The committee's amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u122	Is that the whole argument?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u123	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u124	Dear colleagues, amendment No. 12 of the People’s Deputies of the Horn and of the Sunchenka vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:46:47]] For the five of us. No correction supported. Amendment No. 13 of the national deputies Lukas and Portnova.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u125	So the committee is offering to take the amendment into account. The amendment clarifies the formulation that political parties exercise public control over registering.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u126	Amendment No. 13 of the people’s deputies Lukas and Portnova are voting. [[11:47:23]] For-179 No correction supported. Amendment 14 of the national deputies Lukas and Portnova.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u127	I mean, this amendment is already taken into account by the law that we passed earlier, the law. [[1616]] And so it's just an agreement that the laws will be written in the same way.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u128	Amendment 14 of the people’s deputies Lukas and Portnova is subject to the vote. [[11:48:00]] For-179 Correction not supported. Amendment 15, national deputies Lukas and Portnova.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u129	Similarly, this amendment is also included in the law. [[1616]]
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u130	Amendment 15 of the people’s deputies Lukas and Portnova is subject to the vote. [[11:48:30.]] For 180. Correction not supported. Amendment No. 16 of the People's Deputies of Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u131	The committee suggests that the amendment be rejected, which suggests that the registration authorities be subject to the actual Ministry of Justice. Yet, we suggest that these authorities be subject to local self - government.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u132	Amendment No. 16 shall be put to the vote. [[11:49:09]] For-30 No correction supported. The 17th Amendment of the People’s Deputies of Lukasz and Portnova
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u133	This amendment is already included in the law. [[1616]]
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u134	Amendment No. 17 shall be put to the vote. [[11:49:37]] For-55 No correction supported. Amendment of 18 national deputies of Klukkowski, Podgorno and Sinchenka
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u135	Amendment 18 is proposed. She suggests that the registration authorities be subordinated not only to the district councils, district councils, and to the councils of villages, villages, and cities that are part of the district.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u136	Amendment No. 18 shall be put to the vote. [[11:50:18]] For-191 Correction not supported. Amendment No. 19 of the national deputies Lukas and Portnova.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u137	This amendment is also included in Law 16, and we propose to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u138	Amendment No. 19 shall be put to the vote. [[11:50:47]] For-183 No correction supported. Amendment No. 20 of the People's Deputies of Klukkowski, Podgorny, Sinchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u139	This amendment is edited and the committee proposes to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u140	Amendment No. 20 shall be put to the vote. [[11:51:18]] For-200 Correction not supported. Amendment No. 21 of the national deputies Lukas and Portnova.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u141	Honorable MPs and distinguished voters! I want to pay attention -- this is another amendment that is already in the President's Election Act today, in the current law. We're not voting on these amendments right now. I think the electorate sees which factions don't vote on these amendments, mostly the faction of the Party of Regions. And that's why the question. When we have a collegiate election today, one rule, under the Presidential Election Act, by another law, under the Act on State Register, is another rule. How, then, will the election campaign proceed, and who is interested? - the question. Therefore, the committee still requests that the amendment be voted on.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u142	Amendment No. 21 shall be put to the vote. [[11:52:27]] For 218. No correction supported. 22 Amendment of the People’s Deputies of Klukkowski, Podgorno, Sinchenko
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u143	The committee proposes to support this amendment because there is a clarification here, the law says that the unit is incomprehensible about which unit. Thus, refinement is a division of the government’s apparatus.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u144	Amendment No. 22 shall be put to the vote. [[11:53:06]] For 222 Correction not supported. The 23rd Amendment of the People’s Deputies of Lukasz and Portnova
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u145	Once again, this is also an amendment that applies to the rule already included in the current Presidential Election Act. And if we don't vote it, we're giving birth, once again, to a legal coalition in the conduct of these elections, and what political power in this interested one we see. Thank you. Please support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u146	Amendment No. 23 shall be put to the vote. [[11:53:52]] For 224 No correction supported. 24 Amendment of the People’s Deputies of Klukkowski, Podgorno, Sinchenko
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u147	The committee suggests that this amendment be taken into account, and it will specify exactly what the population points are referring to in this article, Kyiv, Sevastopol.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u148	Amendment 24 shall be put to the vote. [[11:54:28]] For 225 The decision is not taken. No correction supported. The 25th Amendment of the People’s Deputies of Lukasz and Portnova
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u149	This is also an amendment that is already working today in the Presidential Elections Act. And it needs to work in this law too. Please support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u150	Amendment No. 25 shall be put to the vote. [[11:55:06]] For 225 No correction supported. The 26th Amendment of the People's Deputies of Klukkowski and Podgorny.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u151	The committee suggests that this amendment be taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u152	There'll be no other argument?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u153	It won't.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u154	Amendment No. 26 shall apply to the vote. [[11:55:40]] For 228 Amendment No. 26 is taken into account. The 27th Amendment of the People's Deputies of Lukas and Portnova.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u155	Amendment 27 is also an amendment that is already included in the current Presidential Election Act and the committee proposes that it be included in this bill. Please vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u156	Amendment No. 27 shall be put to the vote. [[11:56:19]] For 222 No correction supported. 28 Amendment of the People’s Deputies of Klukkowski and Podgorny.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u157	The committee suggests that this amendment be taken into account. It specifies who has access to all register entries in read mode. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u158	Amendment No. 28 shall be put to the vote. [[11:56:54]] For 227 Correction supported. 29th Amendment of the People’s Deputies Lukash and Portnova
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u159	This amendment is also included in the Presidential Elections Act and the committee proposes to include this bill. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u160	29 amendments to the vote. [[11:57:26]] For the 220. No correction supported. 30th Amendment of the People’s Deputies of Klukkowski and Podgorny.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u161	The committee suggests that this amendment be taken into account. It provides that only the organ where the electorate resides, not elsewhere, is entitled to enter the register.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u162	Amendment No. 30 shall be put to the vote. [[11:58:05]] For 225 No correction supported. 31 Amendment of the People’s Deputies Lukash and Portnov
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u163	This is another amendment that is also included in the existing Presidential Election Act. The committee proposes that this law be incorporated.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u164	Amendment 31 of the people’s deputies Lukas and Portnov is subject to the vote. [[11:58:43]] For 226 Correction supported. 32 Amendment of the People’s Deputies of Klukkowski and Podgorny.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u165	The committee proposes to support this amendment. It specifies that the operation is carried out according to the same law. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u166	Amendment 32 shall be put to the vote. [[11:59:17]] For 225 No correction supported. 33 Amendment of the national deputies Lukas and Portnova
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u167	I reiterate that this amendment has also been made to the President's Election Act. In addition, I state that the faction of the Party of the Regions in its entirety presided over this amendment, and now it is not voting for some of these amendments in this State Register Act. The one conclusion is that they want to break the election. I ask the Hall to support this amendment and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u168	Amendment 33 shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:00:07]] For 224 No correction supported. 34 Amendment of the People’s Deputies of Klukkowski, Podgorny, Sinchenka
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u169	The committee suggests that this amendment be taken into account. It refers to the fact that at least two persons should be present when entering the database. Let's take this into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u170	Ladies and gentlemen, there is some inaccuracy here, because the table signed by the committee manager says that the committee recommends a rejection. This is information for you to make a decision. Amendment 34 shall apply to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:01:05]] For 219 No correction supported. The 35th Amendment of the People’s Deputies of Lukash and Portnow
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u171	Once again, this is also an amendment that is in force in the President's Election Act. The committee proposes to include it and in this bill, please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u172	Amendment 35 shall be put to the vote. [[12:01:40]] For 223 Correction not supported. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 31 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u173	Your argument.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u174	Amendment number 36. This is also an amendment to Act 1616. Please support her.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u175	Amendment 36 shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:32:09]] For-75 No correction supported. Amendment 37, national deputies Lukas and Portnova.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u176	This is also an amendment that is included in Law 1616. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u177	Amendment 37 shall apply to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:32:40]] For 109 No correction supported. 38 Amendments, People’s Deputies of Klukkowski, Podgorno, Sinchenka The MPs don't insist on taking her into account. The committee recommends a rejection. Amendment 38 shall be put to the vote. [[12:33:11]] For 116 No correction supported. 39 amendments, national deputies Lukas and Portnova.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u178	This is also an amendment that is included in Law 1616. The committee's asking her to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u179	Amendment 39 shall be put to the vote. [[12:33:42]] For-129 No correction supported. Amendment number 40, national deputies Lukas and Portnova.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u180	This is also an amendment that is included in Law 1616. Please support her.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u181	Amendment No. 40 shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:34:13]] For 131 No correction supported. 41 Amendments to the People’s Deputies of Klukkowski and Podgorny
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u182	So the committee is proposing to take this amendment into account. She means that when an order is issued, the order is given according to the decision of the registry administrator. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u183	Amendment 41 shall be put to the vote. [[12:34:51]] For-137 No correction supported. 42 Amendment of the People’s Deputies of Klukkowski, Podgorno, Sinchenko
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u184	This amendment is also included in Law 1616, which states that the registration authorities are now operating and are already issuing orders, not orders. So it's like it's perfecting this standard. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u185	Amendment 42 shall be put to the vote. [[12:35:32]] For 139 Not supported. 43 Amendment of the national deputies of Lukas and Portnos
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u186	Also included in Law 1616. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u187	43 amendments to the vote. [[12:36:01]] For a hundred and Not supported. 44 Amendments to the People’s Deputies of Klukkowski and Podgorny
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u188	The committee proposes to take this amendment into account, also -- technically, replacing the word “order” with the word “order” -- what the registration authorities are already doing today.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u189	Amendment 44 shall apply to the vote. [[12:36:35]] For-161 The decision is not taken. The 45th Amendment of the People’s Deputies of Lukas and Portnova
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u190	A similar amendment is already included in Law 1616.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u191	Amendment No. 45 shall be put to the vote. [[12:37:04]] For 168 Not supported. Amendment 46 of the national deputies Lukas and Pornov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u192	Amendment taken into account by Law 1616. Please count now.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u193	46 amendments to the vote. [[12:37:32]] For 168 Not supported. 47 Amendment of the People’s Deputies of Klukkowski and Podgorny.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u194	The committee suggests that this amendment be taken into account. It expands when an authority gives an order. It says: “In revealing the record of a person who is not an electorate.” Then we need to issue an order and remove this person from the voter list. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u195	Amendment 47 of the People’s Deputies of Klukkowski and Podgorny is subject to the vote. [[12:38:14]] For 181 Not supported. Amendment No. 48, People's Deputy Klukkowski and Podgorny.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u196	The committee proposes to support this amendment. She's giving. provides another basis for issuing an order to enter into the voter list.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u197	Amendment No. 48 shall apply to the vote. [[12:38:57]] For-183 Not supported. Next amendment number 49, People's Deputy Klukkowski, Podgorny, Sinchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u198	The committee suggests that this amendment be taken into account. It's about public control.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u199	49 amendments to the vote. [[12:39:28]] For 172 No correction supported. 50 amendments to the national deputies Lukas and Portnov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u200	The committee suggests that we consider it editorially. Here you can change the link to another part of the article.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u201	Amendment No. 50 shall be put to the vote. [[12:39:59]] For 176 No correction supported. 51 Amendment of the People’s Deputies of Klukkowski, Podgorno, Sinchenka
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u202	Please consider this amendment. It repeats a previous correction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u203	Amendment 51 shall be put to the vote. [[12:40:30.]] For-174 Not supported. 52 Amendment of the People’s Deputies of Klukkowski, Podgorny, Sinchenka
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u204	The committee proposes to support this amendment. Here is a clarification of the names of the institutions that work with register authorities: the replacement of the “consular institution” with the “deplomacy institution of Ukraine”.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u205	Amendment 52 shall be put to the vote. [[12:41:12]] For 190 No correction supported. 53 Amendment of the People’s Deputies of Lukash, Portnov
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u206	The committee suggests that this amendment be taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u207	Everything?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u208	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u209	Amendment 53 shall be put to the vote. [[12:41:44]] For 190 Not supported. 54 Amendments to the national deputies Lukas and Portnova
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u210	The committee proposes to take this amendment into account, because it is being clarified, instead of a “order” the term “order” is being introduced. There have been previous amendments to this content. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u211	54 amendments to the vote. [[12:42:21]] For-198 Not supported. 55 National Deputies of Klukkowski, Podgorno, Sinchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u212	The committee suggests that this amendment be taken into account. Here comes the clarification, instead of the “help” we propose to replace the word “messages” that are addressed to the electorate.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u213	Amendment 55 shall be put to the vote. [[12:42:57]] For a hundred and No correction supported. 56. Amendment of the national deputies Lukash and Portnov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u214	The committee proposes to reject this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u215	The whole argument?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u216	Decline.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u217	The authors of the amendments insist on their arguments? Don't insist. The 56 amendments shall be put to the vote. [[12:43:35]] For-26 Not supported. 57 Amendment of the national deputies Lukas and Portnova
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u218	The committee suggests that this amendment be taken into account. It refers to the direction, the message from the information about the electorate.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u219	Amendment 57 shall apply to the vote. [[12:44:06]] For-183 No correction supported. 58 Amendment of the national deputies Lukas and Portnova
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u220	The committee suggests that this amendment be taken into account. It refers to the issue of a refusal to accept a citizen’s appeal there.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u221	Amendment 58 shall apply to the vote. [[12:44:40]] For 184 No correction supported. 59 Amendment of the national deputies Lukas and Portnov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u222	The committee suggests that this amendment be taken into account. It refers to the fact that if the electorate has turned himself down and is refused, he should be sent a written report. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u223	Amendment 59 shall apply to the vote. [[12:45:17]] For 178. No correction supported. 60 Amendments to the National Deputies of Lukash and Portnow
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u224	So the amendment is edited. It refers to the fact that each voter has the right to apply to registering authorities if he has any observations, mistakes, or other. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u225	Amendment No. 60 shall apply to the vote. [[12:45:56]] For-188. Not supported. 61 Amendment of the People’s Deputies of Lukasz and Portnova
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u226	The committee proposes to reject this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u227	From the national MPs, the authors of the amendment are required to argue it? None. Amendment 61 shall be put to the vote. [[12:46:31]] For-170. No correction supported. 62 Amendment of the People’s Deputies of Klukkowski, Podgorno, Sinchenko
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u228	The committee suggests that this amendment be taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u229	Everything?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u230	Yes, vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u231	Amendment 62 shall be put to the vote. [[12:47:04]] For-195 No correction supported. 63 Amendment of the national deputies Lukas and Portnova
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u232	The committee proposes to reject the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u233	The authors of the amendment have a need for argument? None. 63 amendments shall be put to the vote. [[12:47:36]] For-39 Not supported. 64 Amendment of the People’s Deputies of Klukkowski, Podgorno, Sinchenko
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u234	The committee suggests that this amendment be taken into account. It also refers to the change in the word “order” to the word “order” and the fact that the registration authority reports at the previous address where the voter was making changes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u235	Amendment 64 shall apply to the vote. [[12:48:15.]] For-183 Not supported. Amendment of 65 national deputies Lukas and Portnova
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u236	This amendment is practically taken into account in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u237	65 amendments to the vote. [[12:48:42]] For 178. No decision taken, no amendment supported. 66 Amendment of the People’s Deputies of Klukkowski, Podgorno, Sinchenko
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u238	The committee suggests that the amendment should be taken into account, and it provides that when changes are made to the register, the electorate will also be sent a message.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u239	66 amendments to the vote. [[12:49:17]] For-189 Not supported. 67 Amendment of the national deputies Lukas and Portnov
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u240	The committee proposes to reject this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u241	People’s deputies need to argue with the amendment? They don't. 67 amendments to the vote. [[12:49:49]] For-129 No correction supported. Amendment No. 68 of the People's Deputies of Klukkowski, Podgorny, Sinchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u242	The committee suggests that this amendment be taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u243	Amendment 68 shall be put to the vote. [[12:50:18]] For 180. No correction supported. 69 Amendment of the national deputies Lukash and Portnov
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u244	The committee suggests that this amendment be taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u245	Amendment 69 shall apply to the vote. [[12:50:50]] For-173 Not supported. 70 Amendments of the national deputies Lukas and Portnov
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u246	The committee considered it editorially.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u247	Amendment No. 70 shall be put to the vote. [[12:51:18]] For 169 Not supported. 71 Amendment of the People’s Deputies of Klukkowski, Podgorny, Sinchenka
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u248	The committee suggests that this amendment be taken into account. It is meant that the electorate refers to the registration authorities for his electoral address. Please support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u249	Amendment 71 shall be put to the vote. [[12:51:55]] For-200 No correction supported. 72 Amendment of the People’s Deputies of Klukkowski, Podgorno, Sinchenko
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u250	The committee also suggests that the amendment be taken into account. The point is that consular institutions are being replaced into diplomatic institutions. Let's count it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u251	72 amendments to the vote. [[12:52:30.]] For-195 Not supported. 73 The amendment of the national deputies Lukas and Portnova
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u252	The committee suggests that this amendment be taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u253	Amendment 73 shall be put to the vote. [[12:52:58]] For-187 No correction supported. Amendment 74 of the national deputies Lukas and Portnov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u254	This amendment is proposed by the committee to be rejected because it gives the right that the electorate has the right to apply to the registration authority at any point in Ukraine. In our opinion, this is wrong, only at the polling station. So we're going to say no.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u255	Amendment 74 shall be put to the vote. [[12:53:39]] Z-70. Not supported. 75 Amendments to the National Deputies of Lukas and Portnova
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u256	The committee proposes to reject this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u257	Amendment 75 shall apply to the vote. [[12:54:08]] For-35 Not supported. Amendment No. 76 of the national deputies Lukas and Portnova.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u258	This amendment is taken into account, and please support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u259	Amendment 76 shall apply to the vote. [[12:54:36]] For-97 Not supported. 77th Amendment of People's Deputies Lukas and Portnova.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u260	The amendment is also included. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u261	Amendment 77 shall be put to the vote. [[12:55:03]] For-76 Not supported. 78th Amendment. People's deputies Lukas and Portnova.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u262	Partially counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u263	Everything?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u264	All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u265	Amendment 78 shall apply to the vote. [[12:55:32]] For-72 No correction supported. The 79th Amendment of the People's Deputies of Klukkowski, Podgorna, Sinchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u266	Correction counted. Please be supportive. This applies to which rows are changed to the register.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u267	Amendment 79 shall apply to the vote. [[12:56:05]] For-89 No correction supported. Amendment No. 80 National Deputies Lukas and Portnova.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u268	The amendment is also included. And it explains how changes are made to those who will be 18 years old on election day. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u269	Amendment No. 80 shall be put to the vote. [[12:56:40]] For-100 No correction supported. 81 Amendments to the People’s Deputies of Lukash and Portnow
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u270	The committee proposes to reject this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u271	Amendment No. 80 shall be put to the vote. [[12:57:08]] For-66 Not supported. 81 Amendments to the People’s Deputies of Lukash and Portnow
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u272	Also rejected. That's 82nd already.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u273	Uh, 82nd, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u274	I'm suggesting we turn it down.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u275	Amendment 82 shall be put to the vote. [[12:57:39]] For-39 Not supported. 83 Amendment of the People’s Deputies of Klukkowski, Podgorno, Sinchenka
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u276	The committee suggests that it be taken into account in part. It's about making changes again.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u277	Amendment No. 83 shall apply to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u278	Please be supportive. [[12:58:08]] For-74. Not supported. 84th Amendment of People’s Deputies Lukash and Portnov
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u279	The amendment is proposed by the committee. Changes are made to the dead voter.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u280	Amendment 84 shall be put to the vote. [[12:58:38]] For-89 Not supported. 85th Amendment of the People’s Deputies Lukas and Portnova
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u281	The committee suggests that these amendments be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u282	Amendment 85 shall be put to the vote. [[12:59:04]] For-29 Not supported. Amendment No. 86 of the national deputies Lukas and Portnov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u283	The committee also proposes to reject this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u284	Amendment 86 shall apply to the vote. [[12:59:31]] For the 17th. Not supported. 87 Amendment of the national deputies Lukas and Portnova
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u285	The committee also suggests that the amendment be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u286	Amendment 87 shall be put to the vote. [[12:59:57]] For the 10th. Not supported. 88 Amendments to the National Deputies of Lukas and Portnova
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u287	The committee also suggests that the amendment be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u288	Amendment 88 shall apply to the vote. [[13:00:23]] For-16 Not supported. Amendment No. 89 of the national deputies Lukas and Portnova.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u289	The committee proposes to take this amendment into account, and it refers to changing the register by submitting the head of the consulate to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for voters who are 18 years of age.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u290	Amendment No. 89 shall apply to the vote. [[13:01:01]] For-42 Not supported. 90th Amendment of the People’s Deputies of Lukasz and Portnova
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u291	Please support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u292	Amendment No. 90 shall be put to the vote. [[13:01:30.]] For-33 No correction supported. Amendment number 91, national deputy Lukas and Portnova.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u293	The committee also suggests that the amendment be taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u294	Amendment 91 shall be put to the vote. [[13:01:59]] For-38 Not supported. 92 Amendment, People’s Deputies of Klukkowski, Podgorny.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u295	Please consider this amendment. It also refers to changes in the voter register regarding the dead voters.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u296	Amendment 92 shall be put to the vote. [[13:02:29]] For-33 No correction supported. Amendment No. 93, People's Deputies of Klukkowski, Podgorno, Sinchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u297	The committee suggests that this amendment be taken into account. It refers to changes in the voter register for voters in military service.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u298	Amendment No. 93 shall be put to the vote. [[13:03:03]] For-41 Not supported. 94 amendments, national deputies Lukas and Portnova.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u299	The committee also suggests that the amendment be taken into account. It refers to changes in the voter register for those who cannot keep moving.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u300	94 amendments are made to the vote. [[13:03:38]] For-31 Not supported. 95 amendments, national deputies Lukas and Portnova.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u301	The committee's proposing a rejection.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u302	Amendment 95 shall be put to the vote. [[13:04:05]] For-19 Not supported. 96 Amendment of the national deputies of Lukas and Portnos
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u303	The committee counted it in part, please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u304	Amendment No. 96 shall be put to the vote. [[13:04:33]] For-40 Not supported. Amendment No. 97 of the People's Deputies of Klukkowski, Podgorno, Sinchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u305	The committee suggests that this amendment be taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u306	Amendment 97 shall be put to the vote. [[13:05:01]] For-39 Not supported. 98 Amendments to the National Deputies of Lukas and Portnos
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u307	The committee's proposing a rejection.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u308	Amendment 98 shall be put to the vote. [[13:05:27]] For-13. Not supported. 99th Amendment of the People’s Deputies of Lukas and Portnos
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u309	Edited in the next correction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u310	99 amendments to the vote. [[13:05:56]] For-28 Not supported. 100 Amendments to the People’s Deputies of Klukkowski, Podgorny, Sinchenko
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u311	Dear colleagues, the committee proposes to support this amendment, it applies, if the name of the administrative-territorial unit has been changed, then the registration authority should make changes to the register itself. It's not political, it's technical. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u312	Amendment No. 100 shall be put to the vote. [[13:06:40]] For 139 Not supported. 101 Amendment of the People’s Deputies of Lukash and Portnov
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u313	The committee's proposing a rejection.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u314	People's deputies don't insist on their arguments? Don't insist. 101 amendments shall be made to the vote. [[13:07:12]] For-31 Not supported. 102. Amendment of the national deputies Lukash and Portnov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u315	This amendment, as in the following, refers to the link in the article. It's edited in the next one.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u316	Amendment 102 shall be put to the vote. [[13:07:46]] For-39 Not supported. Amendment No. 103 of the People's Deputies of Klukkowski, Podgorny, Sinchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u317	The committee suggests that this amendment be taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u318	Amendment 103 shall be put to the vote. [[13:08:16]] For-35 No correction supported. 104. Amendment of the national deputies Lukash and Portnova.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u319	The committee proposes to reject this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u320	Amendment 104 shall apply to the vote. [[13:08:43]] For-27 Not supported. 105 Amendment of the national deputies Lukas and Portnova
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u321	This amendment is taken into account in another edition, namely: 106. The committee is asking for this amendment to be rejected and 106 to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u322	105 amendments shall be put to the vote. [[13:09:16]] For-24 No correction supported. 106 Amendment of the People’s Deputies of Klukkowski, Podgorno, Sinchenka
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u323	The committee suggests that this amendment be taken into account. It also provides for changes to the register. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u324	Amendment No. 106 shall be put to the vote. [[13:09:48]] For-49 Not supported. 107. Amendment of the national deputies Lukas and Portnova.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u325	The 107th, 108th and 109th committees are proposing a rejection.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u326	Amendment 107 shall apply to the vote. [[13:10:16]] For-16 Not supported. Amendment 108 of the people’s deputies Lukas and Portnova are voting. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:10:38]] For 20 Not supported. Amendment No. 109 of the national deputies Lukas and Portnova. Puts the vote to the vote. [[13:11:02]] For-13. Not supported. Amendment No. 110 of the People's Deputies of Klukkowski, Podgorny, Sinchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u327	The committee suggests that this amendment be taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u328	Amendment 110 shall apply to the vote. [[13:11:29]] For-46 Not supported. 111. Amendment of the national deputies Lukash and Portnova.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u329	It's counted. Next word.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u330	Amendment 111 shall be put to the vote. [[13:11:56]] For-27 Not supported. 112 Amendment of the People’s Deputies of Klukkowski, Podgorny, Sinchenko
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u331	The committee proposes to take this amendment into account, especially since this standard has already been implemented this year.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u332	112 amendments to the vote. [[13:12:27]] For-36 Not supported. 113. Amendment of the national deputies Lukash and Portnova.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u333	The committee's proposing a rejection.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u334	Amendment No. 113 shall apply to the vote. [[13:12:52]] For-21 No correction supported. 114th Amendment of the People’s Deputies Lukash and Portnova
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u335	The committee proposes to take into account editorial changes in links.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u336	Amendment No. 114 shall apply to the vote. [[13:13:22]] For-29 Not supported. 115. Amendments to the national deputies Lukash and Portnova
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u337	The committee proposes to reject this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u338	115 amendments shall be put to the vote. [[13:13:46]] For-27 Not supported. 116 Amendment of the People’s Deputies of Klukkowski, Podgorno, Sinchenka
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u339	The committee suggests that this amendment be taken into account. It refers to the deadlines for sending a message to the electorate.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u340	116 amendments shall be put to the vote. [[13:14:17]] For-28 No correction supported. 117 Amendment of the People’s Deputies of Klukkowski, Podgorno, Sinchenka
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u341	The committee suggests that this amendment be taken into account, including the replacement of the name of the consular authorities as diplomatic institutions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u342	117 amendments to the vote. [[13:14:49]] For-33 Not supported. 118 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u343	The committee suggests that we take it into account. These amendments relate to the very public control of the registering body by political parties of time. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u344	118. The amendment of the people’s deputies Lukas and Portnova is based on the vote. [[13:15:26]] For 116 Not supported. 119. Amendment of the national deputies Lukash and Portnova.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u345	The committee proposes to support this amendment, and it also applies to political control.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u346	Amendment 119 shall apply to the vote. [[13:15:58]] For-136 Not supported. Amendment No. 120 of the national deputies Lukas and Portnova.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u347	The committee also suggests that the amendment be taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u348	Amendment 120 to vote [[13:16:26]] Z-85 Not supported. 121 Amendment of the national deputies Lukas and Portnova
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u349	This amendment is edited, and it applies to the protection of those copies that the registration authority gives to political parties.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u350	Amendment No. 121 shall apply to the vote. [[13:16:59]] For-48 Not supported. 122 The amendment of the national deputies Lukas and Portnova
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u351	This link references the article, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u352	122 amendments shall be put to the vote. [[13:17:25]] For-45 Not supported. 123 Amendment of the People’s Deputies of Klukkowski, Podgorno, Sinchenko
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u353	The committee suggests that the amendment be taken into account; it refers to the fact that not one copy, but the copies received by the corresponding batch return all of these copies. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u354	Amendment 123 shall apply to the vote. [[13:18:01]] For-53 No correction supported. Amendment No. 124 of the national deputies Lukas and Portnova.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u355	It's partially accounted for, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u356	Amendment 124 shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:18:30.]] For-56 Not supported. Amendment No. 125 of the People's Deputies of Klukkowski, Podgorno, Sinchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u357	The committee suggests that this amendment be taken into account. It refers to the name of the article, which is not only made up of lists but also made.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u358	Amendment 125 shall be put to the vote. [[13:19:07]] For-64 Not supported. 126. Amendment of the national deputies Lukash and Portnov
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u359	It's counted, please count.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u360	Amendment 126 shall be put to the vote. [[13:19:33]] For-48 No correction supported. 127. Amendment of the national deputies Lukash and Portnov
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u361	The committee proposes to reject this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u362	Amendment 127 shall be put to the vote. [[13:20:01]] For-23 Not supported. 128. Amendment of the People’s Deputies of Klukkowski, Podgorny, Sinchenka
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u363	The committee suggests that this amendment be taken into account. It's complex for making a list of voters for the presidential election, for the election of national deputies, for the referendums.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u364	Amendment 128 shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:20:35]] For-51 Not supported. 129. Amendment of the national deputies Lukas and Portnov
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u365	Well, if it had been voted on, that amendment had been taken into account before, unfortunately. You should put it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u366	129 amendments to the vote. [[13:21:05]] For-53 Not supported. 130 Amendment of the People’s Deputies of Klukkowski, Sinchenko, Podgorny
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u367	The committee proposes that this amendment be taken into account; it applies exclusively to references to articles of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u368	130 amendments shall be made to the vote. [[13:21:35]] For-59 Not supported. 131 Amendment of the People’s Deputies of Lukash, Portnov
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u369	This amendment is also proposed to be taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u370	131 amendments to the vote. [[13:22:03]] For-57 Not supported. 132 Amendment of the People’s Deputies of Klukkowski, Podgorno, Sinchenko
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u371	Here, too, the change in the link and the committee suggests that the amendment be taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u372	Amendment 132 shall be put to the vote. [[13:22:33]] For-58 Not supported. 133 Amendment of the national deputies Lukas and Portnov
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u373	It is proposed to take the following correction into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u374	133 amendments to the vote. [[13:23:01]] For-54 Not supported. 134 Amendment of the People’s Deputies of Klukkowski, Podgorny, Sinchenko
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u375	The committee suggests that this amendment be taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u376	134 amendments to the vote. [[13:23:30]] For-61 Not supported. 135. Amendment of the People's Deputy of Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u377	The committee proposes to reject this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u378	Yuri Anatolyevich insists on his amendment? Don't insist. The 135th amendment shall be put to the vote. [[13:24:03]] For-34 Not supported. 136th Amendment of the People's Deputies of Klukkowski, Podgorny, Sinchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u379	136th and 137th subsequent amendments rejected by the committee. The authors do not insist on voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u380	136th amendment to the vote. [[13:24:33]] For-25 Not supported. The 137th amendment shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:24:53]] For-28 Not supported. 138th Amendment of the People's Deputies of Klukkowski, the Underworld.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u381	The committee suggests that this amendment be taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u382	Amendment 138 shall apply to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:25:21]] Z-62 Not supported. 139th Amendment of the People's Deputies Lucas and Portnova.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u383	It is counted in Law 1616. Let us also consider this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u384	Amendment No. 139 shall be put to the vote. [[13:25:48]] For-53 Not supported. The 140th Amendment of the People's Deputies of Lukash and Portnova.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u385	The committee suggests that this amendment be taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u386	Amendment 140 is a vote. [[13:26:14]] For-55 Not supported. 141 Amendments to the national deputies Lukas and Portnova
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u387	The committee also suggests that the amendment be taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u388	Amendment 141 shall be put to the vote. [[13:26:41]] For-58 Not supported. 142. The amendment of the People’s Deputies of Klukkowski, the Horn.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u389	The committee also requests that we take into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u390	142. The amendment shall be put to the vote. [[13:27:06]] For-174 Not supported. 143. Amendment of the national deputies Lukash and Portnova.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u391	It's also taken into account in Law 1616, please take into account in this edition.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u392	143. The amendment shall be put to the vote. [[13:27:34]] For 197 Not supported. 144 Amendments to the People’s Deputies of Klukkowski, Podgorny.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u393	The committee suggests that this amendment be taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u394	Amendment number 144 shall apply to the vote. [[13:28:02]] For 221 Correction not supported. We've considered all the amendments. Dear colleagues! And after we've done that, I'm voting on the second reading of the draft Law on Amendments to the Law on the State Register of Voters. [[on the status and authority of the State Election Register and the compilation of voter lists]] [[Registration number 3469]] I'd like to make a statement. [[13:28:46]] For 231 In the second reading, the law was passed. Please, Sergey Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u395	Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman, considering that the vote that took place in this room for an hour and a half, was balanced by the bill that was there. That's not funny at all, considering that most of the amendments that the committee took into account were from the Party of Regions. So we have a proposition. Today this bill cannot be voted on as a whole. We invite him to return the committee to read again. We're going to work on this procedure and we're going to look at it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u396	Dear colleagues, we can't re-send it, it's approved, it's for third reading, of course, if that's the offer. Please, Deputy Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u397	Dear colleagues, Reverend Alexander Volodymyrovich! Well, of course, you have all seen the key to this bill today, and we fully understand that we will not be able to bind up the amendments that have been voted upon and those that have not received support today. So I have two suggestions, and I bring them up for consideration by the Supreme Council: either send them to the third reading, or cancel the previous decision and send them to the committee for second reading. I think that the third reading will not solve the problems that unfortunately arose during the vote in this room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u398	Dear colleagues, I see a lot of hands. Then please write down the procedure for making the next decision. People's deputy Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u399	Thank you. Well, the results of today's review of the bill on the National Electoral Register show that the faction of the Party of Regions, which did not support any of the amendments, is obviously interested in falsifying the results of the election because of the distortion of the voter register. And so unfortunately, we have a law that needs substantial work. I think we should support a proposal from a colleague of Pisarenko, cancel the vote for the adoption of the law on second reading, and send it to the committee for second reading again with a mandate: in the shortest possible time to work it out. Because this bill is supposed to allow us to eliminate the inadequacies that there are, and the contradictions in legislation, and the main thing is to prevent the falsification of the elections, which is obviously the accounting of the representatives of the Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u400	Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u401	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, with regard to this bill, it is a pity that we adopt similar laws when they are no longer to be adopted. Because I'm very afraid that if this law becomes law, it may not improve the election situation, and it will contribute to the deterioration of the electoral situation. Because we will, we will be obliged by law to do things that will no longer be done, that the Central Election Commission will not be able to do, as the head of the State Register, there is quite a danger. And so I'm proposing that, really, the law is broken, sorry, for such a non-parliamentary word, we can vote in favour of the third reading. But when we go to third reading, we should clearly give the task to the committee, which articles, which chapters, which are sent to the third reading. Now it's not likely that we're going to do that, so you can probably see that we really need to cancel the results after the second reading and send it back to the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u402	Zarubinsky National MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u403	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. You know, the Lithuanian Block faction is taking the voter register very seriously. We understand very well that every voice lost by a human being is already a crime against this person, it is deprived of its right, of its right to vote, and therefore this register must be irreprehensible. In turn, now that I've seen what's been going on, I realize that if the law is now adopted in general in this way, it's balanced. And that's why, really, two choices. You know, we're more inclined to go to the third reading. Why? Because, in principle, we just had practice, respected colleagues, that for the third reading there was one or two, but there's no limit to the number of issues that might be normalized during the third reading. If we go back to voting on the second reading, it's going to be a brake. I suggest a third reading. I think that's the most constructive option. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u404	National MP Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u405	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, now the Supreme Council of Ukraine can make one of two decisions, especially in relation to the position that the committee has heard that this law cannot be adopted in general. One decision, what was proposed, is to cancel the second reading and return to the committee for review on a second reading. It needs a decision. Another step in our decision may be the next. To take into account that the law adopted in the second reading is not accepted as a whole, but therefore, a committee without a decision of the Supreme Council is obliged to prepare it for consideration in the third reading. This does not require a separate decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which is where I propose to stop the discussion on this issue. And the committee, of course, has to prepare the project itself for consideration in the third reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u406	Pavlenko Jeduard Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u407	Please pass the word to Lukash Elena Leonidovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u408	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! Honestly, and ashamed, and sad to look at you now. Five minutes went by, as you voted in favour of the law, we were accused of trying to falsify the following elections, especially the registry, and we immediately cried out that they had adopted it unbalanced, destroyed the electoral system and had to think about something. What were you thinking five minutes ago? What did you think when you voted for every amendment that balanced the electoral system? Keep it on your conscience. Why didn't we vote in favour of this bill? Just a year and a half ago, you failed it. We voted for him, I voted for him. Just a year and a half ago, when the authorities could have clarified the register, they could have done something about current data on citizens. Today, when you have shown complete inability to ensure the right of citizens to vote, you are the power, you are the governing coalition, now you are trying to cover the holes with our voices by adopting balanced laws? You'll apologize before now.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u409	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u410	Cancel your decision by closing your eyes as you close everything, and send it back to second reading. Don't be embarrassed!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u411	The conversation is over. Dear colleagues, I want to remind you that 128 articles actually regulates how they prepare for the third reading of the draft law. This does not require a separate decision from the Supreme Council of Ukraine. But I want to point out that for the third reading, there are only certain points that relate to correcting, clarifying, correcting errors and contradictions in the text of the project. No fundamental things are being considered. Subtle things should be considered in a second reading. This is so that you can consciously adopt the decisions you make. Dear colleagues, there are 2 proposals for proposals. The proposals were made by the People’s Deputies Pisarenko, Lyashko, and Martinyuk. Cancel the voting results in the second reading by then deciding to re-direct the second reading. Pisarenko, Laško, Martinyuk in relation to the proposal of the People’s Deputies
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u412	You're filming. The proposal of the People’s Deputies of Pisarenko and Martinyuk to abolish the results of the second reading vote is put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:38:08]] For-97 The decision is not taken. So we don't need another vote. The bill is sent for third reading. The bill is sent for third reading. Please make sure that the profile committee meets all the regulatory requirements. Please, Sergey Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u413	Dear colleagues, the committee does not object to considering the bill in the third reading after all the amendments that have been rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u414	I must, unfortunately, send you to the Rules and say that the Supreme Council of Ukraine will work in accordance with the Rules, not the wishes of any, not even the highly esteemed national deputy of Ukraine. Question completed. [[B in m in s a l in]] A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the election of the President of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 5263-2]] According to Sergey Petrovich Podgorny. First the report, then we have the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u415	Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, the honourable presiding officer! The draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the election of the President of Ukraine following the first reading was adopted by Parliament on 4 November 2009. [[Registration number 5263-2]] Taking into account the relevance of the bill and the fact that the electoral process from the election of the President of Ukraine had already begun, the Supreme Council of Ukraine had entrusted the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government with preparing the bill in short periods to be considered in the second reading. The committee set up a working group to finalize the bill, which included the Ukrainian National Deputies — members of the committee, representatives of the Ukrainian Presidential Secretariat, the Ministry of Justice, the Central Electoral Commission, the Supreme Council's Chief Legal Office. People's deputies, the authors of alternative bills, were invited to participate in the work. There were 243 proposals and amendments to the bill. They were carefully considered by the working group twice -- November 16, 18 -- they were discussed at a committee meeting. According to Parliament’s comparative table of committees, 128 amendments and proposals by national deputies are included, 28 are taken into account in part, and 11 are taken into account in editorial terms. The Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, following a second reading of the draft Ukrainian Law amending certain legislative acts concerning the elections of the President of Ukraine, to be adopted in a second reading and in general. I also consider it necessary to note that the drafting of the proposals and amendments to the bill was done with the participation of the authors or their representatives. In doing so, the vast majority of the proposals were taken into account in full, in part, or in editorial terms. During the committee meeting, the authors did not insist on a separate view of the rejected proposals. Therefore, it might be appropriate to vote in favour of the adoption of the bill immediately in the second reading and in general. The committee in the process of working on the bill tried to take the most into account the amendments and proposals made by all the national deputies who submitted them. In this context, the proposed amendments to the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Judiciality have unfairly used the name of the Court of Appeal, whose territorial jurisdiction extends to the city of Kiev. Therefore, I would like to support the proposal in advance that the final draft of the law be marked as a draft of the bill adopted by Parliament in the first reading, namely: the Kyiv Court of Appeal. Let me remind you once again of the considerable amount of work that has been done on the committee in preparation for the second reading. Therefore, in the case of support and adoption of the bill as a whole, I would like to stress the need for legal certainty.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u416	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u417	Legal and technical processing of the text of the committee with the participation of the Chief Legal Authority in the drafting of the law to be signed by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as provided for in article 130 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. In doing so, it will have to be borne in mind that, since the bill was not considered in the last plenary week, individual positions such as the establishment of polling stations, the acceptance of an oath by members of district and district election committees may take effect after the holding of the presidential election. January 17, 2017. So we suggest that we have a Presence, which is said from July 1, 2010. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u418	Thank you, please log in. Pisarenko Valeriy Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u419	Thank you. Unfortunately, dear colleagues, on the last day, we had a lot of discussions about the Elections and Amendments Act. And it seems to me that we need to contain all these passions and go through this law today. And any decision that will be adopted today will be for the benefit of society. Whether it will be accepted or rejected, but in any case we have to stop amending the election legislation when we have 50 days left before the election. So today we need to follow through on all the amendments. I actually think the committee worked pretty well in some part. But there are fundamental points that we need to discuss here. Because it is the Supreme Council that will eventually control what will happen in the President's election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u420	Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u421	Dear colleagues, the Party of the Regions is more interested than anyone else in ensuring that the elections are conducted in a transparent and objective manner. Based on today's rating and the withdrawal of Viktor Fedorović Yanukovic by 15 to 17 per cent, it would already be possible not to hold the elections, which is already understandable to the people. We do not want this to happen the last time the people voted for Yanukovic, and the courts, breaking the will of the people through their knees, appointed President Yushchenko. And now the country has been suffering for five years. It is therefore such a principled law that it is not here that every amendment here has to be voted on and discussed so that we do not get caught by the head. And so that the people do not come to us with justice, why is the will of the people distorted again? Why do the courts again break the will of the people? The people must elect the President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u422	People's deputy Kamchatny.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u423	Dear colleagues, Kamchatny, “Blok Timoshenko”, Kharkiv region. Please pass the word to the colleague Pisarenko for one more speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u424	Please, People's Deputy Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u425	Ladies and gentlemen, let's stop all the discussions because someone in the courts is going to determine the outcome of the election and appoint the President, we've already gone through this and we've put a big point on it. Actually, let's go back to the Constitution. The Constitution states one thing: “Which citizen of Ukraine can challenge any right of relationship in a court of law.” So where we do it more widely, where we do it harder, it doesn't matter. In fact, the ideology set out in the Ukrainian Presidential Election Act, which is currently in force today, is stated that the President will be determined by the people of Ukraine, and his will will ultimately be announced by the Central Election Commission, so we need to go ahead. And today people are already being intimidated by “fearful” courts, it's not necessary for society, let's move this conversation into professionalism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u426	Lukas Olenna Leonidina.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u427	Dear colleagues, we are now standing right in front of the situation we were facing half an hour ago. 242 amendments and, of course, not enough votes for all of them, some of them are only possible to have enough votes in the room, which will not only balance the law but make it impossible to apply it. So for those who have already decided to push the buttons, I suggest that we think about what will happen next. And I also want to talk about two moments. First. In this bill, we have studied the implementation of the proposal of the Venice Commission. So telling us that democratic and user-friendly is a lie. And the second. The purpose of the bill is to make the elections as difficult as possible, to calculate the votes, to determine the results of the vote and to announce the winner. This is the purpose of the law, this is the law for the loser, this is the law for the one who fears, as a sentence, the result of the vote. Study his rules carefully and vote for him, recognize your defeat now, not confuse procedures until they cannot be applied.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u428	Lyszko Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u429	Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. It's a shame, of course, that 50 days before the election, we're changing electoral legislation again, and then we're wondering why people we didn't vote for suddenly become presidents. And the notable conversation that colleague Mikhail Vasilovich has just said that no elections are needed – Janukovic is already President. Now, you see, this is your whole democracy. You appoint presidents by conspiring with Yushchenk, and you have already divided positions — the one assigned to the President, Yushchenka, Prime Minister. You're implementing this conspiracy today in Parliament without giving a billion to the flu. Today, without the support of the Codex Budget. That's your whole citadel policy. Learn to work openly, openly, and publicly. Therefore, the law must be voted on, although it was certainly desirable for him to vote another two weeks ago when we insisted.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u430	People’s MP Mironenko hands over the right to speak to the national deputy Lukash.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u431	I want to respond to the previous performance. Well, it's hard not knowing and forgetting and not reading at all, but wanting to talk. I'll remind my colleagues that the rules of the proposed bill provide for the reformation of district and district election committees in a different way. And I'll remind you that they, district commissions, have already been formed by the Central Election Commission. And without going into detail before they form, let me tell you that you want to introduce this from July, from July, 2010. Tell me, please, do you think the elections will be in July? What are you going to do today? Read what you have to offer! Read the transitional positions! That you have some rules in force for this law in July. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Are you afraid of elections today? Are you afraid of losing? Then why do you have to lie to the law? Sit quietly and be afraid.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u432	Dear colleagues, the procedure has been tabled, we will work in accordance with articles 119 and 121 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules in accordance with the proposals. We will consider every proposal made by the Ukrainian national deputies to the draft law. And we will be defined in each article as provided for in article 119 of the Rules, part one, the law will be adopted in an article. So, respectable colleagues. From the Breakup Hall!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u433	We've got nine more minutes to break, sorry. Thus, we have the first article, article 2, “General electoral law”, to which the first amendments are made. Amendment No. 1 of the People's Deputy of the Horn. Please, Sergey Petrovich, your argument.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u434	Dear colleagues! Dear voters! I would like to point out immediately that this law changes something very radical, especially with regard to the commission. The only thing the authors wanted to do was to unify this law and bring very much of its standards into line with the Law on Elections of People's Deputies, which worked in 2006 and 2007 and had a very positive assessment of both the public in Ukraine and the public outside it. With regard to the amendment, the amendment responds precisely to the Constitutional Court’s decision and changes with regard to those who may vote abroad. And the committee proposes to support this amendment and the second amendment, they're the same content.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u435	Amendment No. 1 of the People’s Deputy of the Horn shall be subject to the vote. [[13:52:29]] For 180. No correction supported. Amendment No. 2 of the People’s Deputy Pisarenko also to article 2. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u436	The committee proposes to support this amendment. Once again, it refers to those citizens who will be abroad on election day. There was a lot of talk about it on one of the shows last night that we should be able to vote. So why don't you give our citizens that right in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u437	Please turn on the microphone of the People’s MP Pisarenko the author of the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u438	Ladies and gentlemen, if we don't just want to do a law-adopted show, let's give it a shot. This is about these amendments that we're already voting first, these are the basic positions that both the Constitutional Court and what the Venice Commission said, which, by the way, we've counted almost everything they said, very much at least. This is true of those citizens who will take part in the vote in Ukraine’s territory. The Constitutional Court has said its word -- it's just being transposed, it's being implemented into this law. If we're going to go that way, here, really, we need to think straight away about what this law is going to do, not for the third, but for the second reading again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u439	Thanks for the offer. Is there a question that doesn't arise afterwards? At present, the Pisarenko National MP is already proposing to transfer the second reading to read again. Oh, no? Please continue to work on the amendments. No problem. Amendment No. 2 of the People’s Deputy Pisarenko is subject to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u440	The committee's asking for support. [[13:54:27]] For-183 Correction not supported. Now, in accordance with part two of article 121 of the Supreme Council’s Rules, I am voting for the whole article number two, the general electoral law that was approved in the first reading of that edition. I'd like to make a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u441	The committee's offering to support it. [[13:54:59]] For 193 The decision is not taken. Article 2 is rejected by law. The following article, to which amendments are being made, suggests that the number 17 be amended with regard to the dates of the appointment and the holding of the elections. Amendment No. 3 of the People's Deputy of the Underworld. Please, your arguments.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u442	I don't agree with one of the speakers who said we were doing or asking to do the law today. This law, I hope, will work both for these elections and for future elections, if we still have the president's office. So when you and I made the decision to set a date, we assigned it not in ninety days but more. Therefore, it is not possible to make a 90 - day appointment and an election in 90 days. Thus, the amendment indicates that it is not later than 100 days later but 90 days later. It's a technical amendment. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u443	Amendment No. 3 of the People’s Deputy of the Horn is subject to a vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:56:15]] For 186 Correction not supported. This was the only amendment to article 17. Article 17, “About the terms of appointment and the holding of elections”, which was adopted in the first reading, deals with the voting as a whole. [[13:56:43]] For-187 This article is not amended. Article 19, the next proposed change, refers to constituencies. Amendment No. 4 of the People's Deputies of Klukkowski, Podgorny, Sinchenka. Can I have your argument, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u444	Dear colleagues, the amendment suggests that the elections are held in a state-wide district, which includes not only the territory of Ukraine, but also the foreign constituency, which is not in the law today. So you can view it as a foreigner, what, people don't vote? Therefore, we need to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u445	Amendment No. 4 of the People’s Deputies of Klukkowski, Podgorny, Sinchenka is voting. [[13:57:42]] For 201 No correction supported. The following amendment number 5 also applies to article 19. Please, Sergey Petrovich Podgorny, your amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u446	This amendment also applies to constituencies. And we ask for her support. The point here is that in the transitional positions it's stated that this rule will work for us after these elections, given that the districts are already created. But this amendment brings the law, once again, to the norms that have worked in the election of Ukrainian national deputies in 2006 and 2007, is the unification of electoral legislation. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u447	Please, the microphone of the Lukash People's Deputy. Wait a minute, I'm sorry, you'll be out of here in a minute. The question is why, since we have article 119, part one provides for a discussion of the amendment if necessary. Please, National Deputy Lukash.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u448	The amendment seems innocent because its developers want to cut the constituencies, not by the number of voters, but by the number of districts. What you don't care about voters for a long time is a well-known question. But I still have a simple question: "Why do you want it to become effective, like the rest of many major amendments, since July 1, 2010?" Today the constituencies have already been created, district election committees have been created and started their work, and you are writing your own electoral code, in which you want to codify all the rest of the norms. But why, then, do such warnings appear in this law? Tell me, what was the ideology of making changes to the law that was now in force and needed now, until July?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u449	Ideology was out of date. They just took a neutral date. We can write it from September 1st, October 1st -- it's not in principle in this case. As far as we are concerned, we respect the electorate. If you think that the district commission that is going to be on Donetsk will process 51 protocols, and the district commission that is going to be in another area will process the protocols of 300 electoral commissions, that normal work will be for the district commission members, then I don't understand how this can be normal. The same commission in the same warehouse will do a very different amount of work. That's not right. And you fought the national MPs showed it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-01-m0.u450	Amendment No. 5 of the People’s Deputy of the Horn is subject to a vote. [[14:00:36]] For 209 Correction not supported. Please, by the factions. Region Party – 0, “Club of Timoshenko” – 134, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” – 55, Communists – 0, “Club of Lithuania” – 19, “Afterfractional” – 1. The morning plenary session is closed. We continue our work at 4:00.
