ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:01:45.]] The 430 national deputies registered in the session hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues, we continue our consideration of the four - year schedule. The draft Law on Urgent Measures for Prejudice of the Consequences of the World Financial Crisis and for Amendments to Certain Laws of Ukraine is under review. Reporter: Head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy Sergei Anatoliyovich Teryohin Please, Sergey Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u2	Dear Mr. Head, the only request, is that I be one of the authors of this law and I have to sing on behalf of the committee not for 2 minutes, and four minutes should be from, again and again, the authors, from the co-reporters. If you don't mind, let me give you a general overview of this bill. The Supreme Council Committee on Tax and Customs Policy reviewed the draft Law on Urgent Measures to Prejudice the Consequences of the World Financial Crisis and on Amendments to Certain Laws, introduced by a team of authors, including me, Mikola Kruglov and Katerina Vaszczuk, registered number 3306 from 23.12.2008. You may have observed that the proposed structure is somewhat unusual because it is built on a sectoral principle rather than on taxes. In our view, the proposed structure of the bill at the stage of its discussion is more clear because it clearly follows which areas need to be supported and what measures are needed to implement support. It is necessary to build a bill before the normal standard-setting process is completed during its processing for the second reading. The main purpose of the bill is to introduce preferential incentives and tax provisions to citizens and companies during a period of financial crisis. The draft law includes amendments to a number of legislative acts in Ukraine: certain tax laws, laws governing the operation of the Deposit Guarantee Fund, mortgages, including housing financing mechanisms, insurance market.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u3	Allow me to complete my posturing and from the committee immediately.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u4	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u5	No, but the point is, the committee has to speak to the committee head again.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u6	I'll do the same from the committee head, from the committee, I apologize.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u7	Now the author of the project is finished, and now from the committee, and then we'll talk about it. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u8	Each of the authors, each of the chapters, is aimed at introducing anti-crisis measures in the direction of legislative regulation. This law has nine chapters and 37 articles. The bill aims to stimulate investment in Ukraine’s economy, by introducing active anti-crisis depreciation policies is chapter one; to restore balance of payments by increasing non-trade payments, chapter two; to protect the financial interests of citizens, chapter three; to protect the interests of mortgage and mortgage market entities, chapter four; to support the liquidity of banks and other market participants, chapter five; to support insurance market entities, chapter six; and to support lysing activities, chapter seven of the bill. Well, just to be clear, only in the first chapter is proposed to introduce accelerated and bonus depreciation for companies that use active waste management funds for the extraction of methane gas or butane gas from coal mines or other natural deposits, for metallurgical purposes, for gas transport, for the production of renewable energy sources, alternative fuels, electricity, thermal energy, or the disposal of nuclear wastes for the preservation of crops and agro-industrial complex, etc. Unfortunately, I do not have time to give a full review of this bill. I can tell you, the committee's decision is that. This bill, the following three drafts by Yanukovic, Kinah, Kruglov and Katerinczuk, we have proposed to adopt in the first reading because there are all the interesting ideas to be discussed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So the request, on behalf of the committee, was a unanimous decision taken to adopt this bill as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u9	Thank you, Sergey Anatolyovich. Please sit down. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the performance. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up, please. Roman Tchac. What, what? Dear colleagues, we'll re-record after the performance. Okay? Roman Tchac, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u10	Dear Roman Tkac, "For Ukraine", faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! In general, in support of what Sergey Anatoliyovich said, that there are really a lot of proposals here that relate to many directions in the real economy, I would still like to remind myself once again of what I was talking about in discussing the so-called broad anti-crisis bill. This is about what we did the first step. And they put a zero VAT on the tribal livestock. I think that's what we talked about last time, and I think we need to take the second step now, and we need to introduce, and we need to put VAT into the equipment that's not produced in the country. Last time we discussed this, Sergey Anatoliyovich and I supported this idea from the hall. The point was to reconcile the code lists with the Ministry of Agrarian Politics. This is what I would like to do under the protocol, under the transcript, to propose such a thing that, in support of the idea that the first reading can accept it, the second reading should introduce the amendments to article 37 of the Law on Added Cost Tax, which refers to what is at the zero rate of import VAT to supplement, paragraph 5.18 of article 5 should be supplemented by sub-paragraph 5. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. 3 of this content: technology and equipment for animal complexes and according to appropriate codes. Thank you. I support Teryochin's idea of voting for the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u11	Dear colleagues, here either failed or failed to work, they say, the opportunity to sign up. We have one performance, and we still have the right to three speeches, please. Sign up again. But please be careful. There's a "for" and a "against" to be recorded. I'd like you to put on the board the name of the national MPs who signed up. Katerina Vaszczuk and Roman Tkac Dear colleagues, you have to look either “for” or “against” there, but you should press it correctly, please. Katerina Vaschuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u12	Dear colleagues, this law, reported by Sergey Terhochin, was very carefully discussed and considered by our committee. Most of the positions in this law are designed to improve the legislation that exists today by adapting it to today’s requirements. We have adopted many laws. And these corrections often disagree with the law as a whole: either conflict or cause a double interpretation. Thus, the adoption of this law can solve so many of the issues that our farmers are facing today. And most importantly, there is an opportunity to improve the legislation that people manufacturers work for. That's the main thing. Today we have a debt to manufacturers. For this law in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u13	People's MP, Arzhevtin. The right to speak is given by Roman Tkac.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, if you have read this bill carefully, I respect Sergey Anatoliyovich, but this document is difficult to call a bill. It's a build-up of all kinds of initiatives to a dozen bills. Among other things, the Legal Authority also claims that the structure of the document is extremely complex and does not meet the standards of the legislative technique. In addition, this law has already lost its relevance by 50 percent at least because we have passed specialized laws regarding housing, banking. This is no longer relevant. Besides everything else, we're on our way right now and we're looking at the specialized law on the guarantee fund, credit unions, and so on. So I think the relevance is lost. Next. I think in the bill, when it's proposed to give the National Bank non-specific functions, at the same time, to take away its functions, I don't think it's right. The Population Investment Guarantee Fund should now provide State support to those who are engaged in entrepreneurial activities and who are working on a simplified system of taxation. I think it's about accelerated depreciation, maybe that's the right thing to do, but what prices are going to be in the country and how much budget is not going to get. So I think I need to ask the author to call it off, to clear this bill, to remove standards that are neither present nor functional in this committee, and then to submit a new version of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u15	Your Honor, the matter has been discussed. Government position. Any comments, suggestions?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u16	Mikola Half-Dean, Deputy Minister of Finance. The government's position is outlined in an expert opinion given to the Ukrainian people's deputies, Minfin does not support this project because the negative impact that these rules may have on the implementation of is estimated at 9 billion dollars for the State budget for local budgets at 4.5 billion dollars.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u17	Dear colleagues! Please, Sergey Teryohin's closing statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u18	Dear colleagues, I would like to sum up the discussion that took place today. I'd like to say that the Ministry of Finance's findings on these losses were created two months ago on a completely different project. There's no such thing now. What's more, imagine this project is talking about the possibility of accelerated or conical depreciation for the real economy sector under the new core funds. Minfin thinks it's going to be budget losses. Praise you, Lord, if new equipment is brought into this country to make an energy saving economy, to do ecology, to do metallurgy, to do agriculture. These core funds don't exist right now. But unfortunately, you know, these calculations were made by the Ministry of Finance about a month and a half ago. They're based entirely on a different text, and they don't have any basis right now. And one more thing. Now there was a national MP who denied, let's say, joining the fund to guarantee the contributions of the individuals involved in the business. What difference does it make if it's a personal deposit, is it a small enterprise deposit? It doesn't matter. I urge you, on behalf of the committee, to take the basis of this project, to base the following four projects, two of them from the opposition, and to make a normal anti-crisis package that will have a positive impact not on banks, but on the real economy and people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u19	Dear colleagues, the draft law has been reviewed. [[Registration number 3306]] I'd like to ask your colleagues to listen to the committee's chairman's suggestions. We have a whole package of drafts to help the country in their relationship. If there's any doubt, let's take these bills as a basis, and in preparing for the second reading, we'll be able to figure out and make a final decision. I request attention, and with such a proposal, the vote is on the basis of the draft Law on Urgent Measures for Prejudice of the Consequences of the World Financial Crisis and for amending certain laws of Ukraine. Registration number 3306. Please vote. [[16:16:54]] For 216 The decision is not taken. What have they “not been able to reach ”? Dear colleagues! Please, I'm voting for a return to the bill, registration number 3306. About the return. Please. [[16:17:32]] For 216 The decision is not taken. Question completed. [[B in m in s a l in]] It's being announced. Okay. There is a proposal for re-reading draft Law 3306. Please vote. [[16:18:05]] For 227 Decision taken. A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on economic growth in Ukraine is being announced for consideration. Reporter: National Deputy of Ukraine, Mikola Catherinechuk The focal point will be the chairman of the committee, Sergey Teryohin. Please, Mikola Dmitrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u20	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! Dear radio listeners! Before presenting this bill, I would like to introduce you to the conclusion of the World Bank contained in its latest report, entitled “Tax payments in 2009”. So Ukraine and Belarus remain two countries where it is most difficult to pay taxes. And the tax rate is 147. The tax-paying rating is 172th place. In the tax-paying ease rating, 178 seats. So the only conclusion is to lower taxes, gentlemen. Under conditions where industrial production is declining, both parliament and the government should take anti-crisis steps precisely to support the economy of Ukraine, and do so quickly. That's the model we proposed in our bill. First of all, we're proposing a completely new approach to paying the value added tax -- it's practically a new edition. In particular, it is envisaged to reduce the tax rate to 15 percent and to change the VAT payment mechanism. The purpose of the innovation is to direct VAT sales to end-users of goods, jobs, and services to payers of the tax. When selling or reselling goods to end consumers, the company should pay VAT immediately — within three days. The project is also expected to release VAT investment into the capital, introduce tax incentives for investment, such as introducing an investment benefit from income tax and increasing depreciation deductions. The adoption of the bill is aimed at solving the problem of the basic funds of the Ukrainian economy, which today account for more than 60 percent. The bill also controls the purpose of the tax payer’s tax exemption.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u21	Give me a chance to finish the thought, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u22	In these circumstances, we have to deliberately go to lower taxes in order to allow the industry to get out of where it is. And unfortunately, there is no other alternative. Thank you for your attention. And I'd like to support you in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u23	Dear colleagues, before we announce the recording. Huh?Oh, my God! Please, Sergey Anatolyovich Teryohin. But I would like to remind you, when we register for discussion, when we speak for, we press the green button when "against" is red, so that there are no complaints that have not been registered. Please, Sergey Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u24	Thank you. Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, this bill was carefully studied by the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy. There's a lot of comments, there's a lot of comments from the scientific and scientific administration of the Supreme Council. But as I told you earlier, we agreed that all the bills should be supported on a basis. Unfortunately, this agreement, which was made by the representative of Mr. Azarov's Party of Regions on the Committee, does not now follow the faction of the Party of Regions, well, the god of their judges. So the committee is proposing, with the exception of changes to the value added tax, because these changes are in the way they are written, will lead to uncontrolled budgeting, to adopt this bill as a basis. If the value added tax position remains in this bill, then the suggestion is to send it back to the first reading. The committee, once again, proposes to adopt as a basis the deletion of the rules relating to amendments to the Ukrainian law on value added tax. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u25	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for a discussion. May I have the names of the national deputies on the board? People's MP Pisarenko, then Catherinechuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u26	Dear colleagues, of course, we need to think about tax reform at this time of crisis. After all, all countries of the world have now gone to lower tax pressure on entrepreneurs. And in order to move the economy and create new jobs now, we need to vote on such bills, including those submitted by my colleague, Mr. Catherinechuk. But let's understand that we still have the Tax Code in our agenda, which we haven't been able to accept for years, and in which we need and need to improve and list the taxes that will be collected by the entrepreneur and their size. Because it seems to me that today to solve fate, for example, VAT in a separate law, might only change the situation today and turn it into a dead end and not solve the problems that are. Maybe we should say that we should lower the tax rate without changing the tax procedures themselves, but in general, I wanted my colleagues from the opposition who are not voting for such important laws today, but we still need to convince ourselves that we need to force ourselves to work on such bills today. So now we have to vote in the first reading, then we go to work on the committee, and then we start working on the tax code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u27	Mikolo Dmitrovich Catherinechuk, please, the faction "Our Ukraine-People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, it's kind of strange that this is all because the Party of Regions is introducing anti-crisis bills and then it's not voting for them. On all the shows, you say you have an anti-crisis program, and you and I on the committee did it all. Why don't you vote? This is the first time. Second, relative to VAT. The reform of VAT today is, I think, one of the main problems that exporters face. That is why this is also a pre-election promise of BUT. I'm sorry I did this job for you, but I would like us to continue this discussion, we've adopted this bill in the first reading and we've adopted the Tax Code because the issue of getting out of a crisis is a change, first of all, of fiscal policy. And God let us deal with it this week. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u29	Mikola Kravchenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u30	Cowchenko, the Communist faction. We won't vote in 3355, I won't even explain the reason. But I want to say this. There's 3306, and 3355 are so grateful, so to speak! But I think I'm already an MP with experience, but I don't understand how it could be an executive faction to vote for a law that completely destroys the previous legislative framework. We have adopted an anti-crisis law on industrial development. There's an amortization on Group 3-4. We have clearly and clearly entered into force, and that law will work. What is the need to prepare this Talmud, which violates the full legislative framework adopted earlier. I don't understand it when the Deputy Minister of Finance sits and says that it will destroy the nine billion and so fragile a bad budget, the executive faction runs and forces everyone to vote on it. I don't understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u31	Let me finish. Are you all right, Mikola Vasilovich? Please. Anna Mikolayevna Herman, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u32	Party of regions. Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! The regional party certainly supports every initiative that reduces tax pressure on entrepreneurs and makes people’s lives easier. And it doesn't depend on who's proposing these bills, whether it's the opposition, whether it's the coalition, whether it's the people who don't belong to the coalition or the opposition. We don't share good things with coalitions and opposition. We always support those initiatives that make people's lives easier in such extremely difficult times. So we're going to vote in favour of the Katerinczuk bill and we're going to do everything we can to lower taxes in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u33	Thank you. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Teryohin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u34	Dear colleagues, let me rephrase the committee's decision. The committee proposes to take the basis for a bill drafted by the national deputy Catherinechuk 3355, subject to the deletion of the rules relating to amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Value Added Tax. The standards contained in this bill can optimistically result in the loss of some 9 billion dollars, 9.8 billion dollars by the end of this year. So let's not do this kind of experiment in a crisis. Please put to the vote a decision of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u35	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I will put to the vote as required by the Rules of Adoption on the basis of the draft law, registration number 3355 on amending certain Ukrainian laws on economic growth, and in preparing for the second reading, we need to hold discussions and make the best decision. So once again, the proposal for adoption is based on draft law, registration number 3355. Please vote. Based on the base. [[16:30:07]] For 215 The decision is not taken. By factions, please, the Party of Regions - 153, Block of Timoshenko - 2, Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense - 40, Communists 0, Block of Lithuania - 20. Dear colleagues, we will return, I would like to say once again, the proposal made by my colleague Teryochina, the head of the committee, but according to the rules we take as a basis, and in preparing for the second reading we must proceed from the amendments and proposals that are, I cannot put conditions to the vote, because the first vote is only the one required by the Rules. So, honourable colleagues, I'm voting on the return to Bill 3355. Return to Review! Back to the debate. [[16:31:15]] For 224 The decision is not taken. It is now up to the vote to re-read the draft Law 3355. Let's do it again. [[16:31:39]] For 381 Decision taken. I'd like to ask you in preparation for your first reading to reconcile the differences. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Corporate Income Taxation and amending certain other tax laws is being announced for consideration. Rapporteur: National Deputy of Ukraine Anatoly Kirilovich Kinakh, co-reporter of the committee Sergey Anatoliyovich Teryohin. Please, Anatoly Kirilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, I have great hope that when we consider in our plenary room the issues that are aimed at overcoming the economic and industrial crisis in Ukraine, regardless of the political color, we will unite our efforts. There is an unprecedented decline in industry in Ukraine: January is minus 34 percent, which is not the same in Ukraine's history of independence. Ukraine’s industry is operating under very difficult conditions, starting with an unfavorable environment in the world’s markets, a sharp increase in the cost of energy resources, and, in fact, the destruction in the internal space of Ukraine’s investment, innovative policies, which deepens the crisis in all sectors of our economy. Moreover, our energy output is 2-3 times higher than our competitors in both the East and the West. The physical moral breakdown of the core funds is about 60 to 70 percent. And including Ukraine's tax system, there are no practical incentives to reinvest the profits of enterprises, modernise production and the real economy today are virtually isolated from access to credit resources. As a step towards addressing these problems, the faction of the Party of Regions proposes the above-mentioned bill to accelerate the modernisation of Ukraine's core funds, their technological and technical rearms and introduce appropriate accelerated depreciation standards in terms of incentives to drive businesses to their competitiveness, energy conservation, and the creation of new jobs. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u37	Thank you, Anatoly Kirilovich, thank you. Sergey Anatolyovich Teryohin, head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u38	Honourable National Deputies, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Tax and Customs Policy on 5 December 2008, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Taxation of Business Income and amending certain other tax laws introduced by Ukrainian National Deputies Janukovič and Kinakh. [[3391 — Number]] The bill is proposed, you have already heard, the author said, one of the authors said that the introduction of this bill resulted in the loss of the budget at one position of 1.2 billion dollars, at the second position of 2.8 billion dollars. But understanding that we need to look together for a way out of the crisis that is in the real sector of the economy, we have decided at our meeting to support the two laws that give rise to the opposition on the basis of the first reading. Unfortunately, the 3306 vote showed that there was nothing to agree on at the level of the committee that voted, among other things, the absolute majority. Not an absolute majority, but everyone voted: both opposition and coalition for this approach. Well, there's nothing to expect now that the opposition will support the promises it made in public with the cameras at the committee meeting. I'd like to do a summary. Officially, the committee proposes that it be based on an official conclusion. But my dear friends, with such political conduct in mind, decide for yourselves. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u39	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the performance. I'd like you to put on the board the name of the national MPs who signed up. Klimec National Deputy, faction of the Party of the Regions. Herman's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u40	Dear colleagues, today in this room could have been an event that all Ukrainians would have hit in a hurry. We could unite around the idea of lowering taxes for small, medium - size business, for all who wanted to survive in this Ukraine. The opposition met a coalition member and supported his bill. But Julia Timoshenko's block refused to vote in favour of this bill. So there's a double standard. On the one hand, Prime Minister Timoshenko is talking about all the microphones on all the TV channels that she's reducing tax pressure, that she's doing everything she can to get out of the crisis. On the other hand, the political power it controls does not support the bill of their colleague, their colleague, of a bill that could make people's lives easier. We want voters to know that in Ukraine. Now we're going to vote again for a bill that makes people's lives easier. And we call on the Yulia Tymoshenko Block, the entire coalition to join that vote. We urge you not to divide Ukraine and not to divide Parliament, but at a time when the whole world is united in crisis.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u41	National MP Pisarenko. Well, I see, in the end, let's finish the performances.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u42	Dear colleagues, first of all, we need to learn to keep our word before one another. If we decided today to adopt a package of tax laws, we need to adopt a package of laws. And if we want to share it, someone's better off baking people, someone worse, let's not do it after the fight with our fists. So today all the bills are, unfortunately, going to the committee, and let's ask our colleagues to put them back in the room as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u43	Yes, please, Sergey Teryohin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u44	Thank you very much. The answer is in order. The "Julia Tymoshenko Block" was blocked. Dear national MPs, our distinguished voters! You know, the devil is hiding in small things. If in 3306 we really offered to improve the life of the real economy, of the citizens, of our laborers who come or work abroad, come from abroad, improve the possibility of not having apartments built and so on. So it's in the bill, which is now being considered, that a simple thing is being written. As Janukovic and Kinach suggest, the biggest reduction in taxation will be in two categories of companies: importers and the financial sector. Citizens, Mrs. Hermann, here doesn't smell in this law, there are no citizens here. There are the interests of a large business involved in imports or financial instruments. This is the difference between what Block Timoshenko gave and what the Party of the Regions filed.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u45	I beg of you, dear fellows, listen. Anna Mikolayevno, you can listen. You were speaking, there was no one in the room who signed up. I just gave it to the representative. You've spoken, well, you've answered, you've exchanged lines, so let's do it. Please, Herman microphone, please. But let us, fellow workers, make such arrangements that those who are not in the room should not be given the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u46	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention once again to the fact that the opposition today supported the draft tax reduction bill proposed by Mr. Mikola Catherinechuk as a coalition member, and we were able to demonstrate, together, the unity of the people's interests. What they're now saying is that there's no need to lower the tax pressure there and so forth, there are millions of ordinary Ukrainians working in the big business that have jobs, and we have to save those jobs today. And I urge you once again, don't divide by factions, don't share your interests, let's adopt together those bills that make people's lives easier, leave party ambitions in your pockets.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u47	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion of draft Law 3391 has been completed. The committee's proposal is to accept as a basis and prepare for the second reading. I'm putting this proposal to a vote, namely, on the adoption of the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Business Income Taxation and amending certain other tax laws, registration number 3391. Please vote. Please vote. [[16:42:57]] For 208 The decision is not taken. Let's maybe re-read it first. There's no warning. The factions, please. Region Party – 165, “Timoshenko Yulia Block” – 1, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” – 14, Communists – 14, “Litvina Block” – 1. Dear colleagues, I am voting for re-reading draft Law 3391. Please vote. Please vote. [[16:43:41]] For 219 The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u48	The factions? Please. Region Party – 173, “Block of Timoshenko” – 0, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” – 18, Communists – 27, “Block of Lithuania” – 1. Dear colleagues, we have more talk right now -- not this rational pragmatic approach, but obviously political accounting. Let's get away from this, please. A draft Law 3396 on amending certain laws of Ukraine to reduce tax pressure and encourage the development of the domestic market is being announced. The rapporteur is the National Deputy of Ukraine, Anatoly Kirilovich Kinakh. Terjehoin’s head, Sergey Anatoliyovich, will be the narrator.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u49	Dear People's Deputies, speaking to you again from the faction of the Party of Regions, once again, we are not only turning to you, but we demand: Stop the war on destroying Ukraine's economy! According to the decline in industrial volume in January 2009, when in the main budgeting sectors of Ukraine's economy, the collapse of machine building -- minus 58 percent, the metallurgical complex -- minus 46, construction -- minus 57, chemistry minus 40, that's the level of collapse that was only in June 1941, but then the war started! With whom is the ruling coalition and government at war? With his own people and his own country? This is the first time. Second, the economy of Ukraine today, according to the UN, the worst in the world, is the first disgraceful place. External trade: negative balance – minus 18.5 billion, credit rate, including the National Bank account, which is itself high in Europe, in energy efficiency, I remind you twice as high as in the world, by productivity, 4-5 times lower than in Europe. And this package of bills that we're proposing is designed to create conditions, not for populist policies, for the destruction of Ukraine's economy, but for its development. So there's a proposal, honourable national MPs, move away from political ambitions, remember your own state, the economy, and support the above-mentioned bill, which allows you to provide a lysing system, lower taxes, improve the situation with external trade balances and create tens of thousands of workers.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u50	Let me finish. Yes, please, Sergey Anatolyovich. From the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u51	Dear National Deputies! Let me repeat on behalf of those deputies, members of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, who have political honour. We agreed on a committee to support all the bills in the first reading, including this one. In view of the fact that the drafters of this bill are more than controversial, I am very grateful to the drafters of this bill that they have adopted and broadcast part of Bill 3306, for which you have not voted, directly rewrote without. With the mistakes that were in the insects, from 3306 to their bill, but they added, as they say, “hotels”. [[I'm sorry.]] “Hotels” are such. Let's say it's suggested to lower by 3 times the tax on dividends, interest and royalty received from non-residents. Roughly speaking, not to be plagued by the transfer of money to offshore and then by the transfer back, all the passive incomes that Ukrainian citizens or companies have in offshores are offered, taxing three times as much as they are today. Or, let's say, new people are offered a profit tax that costs the State budget in today's situation at least 19.5 billion dollars; new ones are offered in a tax-added value that costs a direct bill of 18 billion dollars and bills called plus another 30 billion dollars. We agreed with the drafters of this bill that the most ominous standards I've ever mentioned would be deleted on second reading. But I understand that these arrangements are completely broken. So I've given you a decision from a committee that was based again and again on the principles of political honour, and you decide how to vote. Thank you. For the attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u52	Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for the bill. Please put the names of the people's deputies on the board. National Deputy Karpuk faction "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u53	Vladimir Karpuk, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense”. We've heard a lot from the Party of Regions that they have a large anti-crisis package of laws, the main author of which is their leader. Today, however, they really wanted to listen to the suggestions that so much is said about the great manager who can lead the country out of the crisis. However, if this great manager had actually gone to the rostrum and told what is going on, and what we've heard today, we can't support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u54	Jaroslav Suhi, please. Dear colleagues, once again, red and green. Red is against, green is for. Yeah, so there's no problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u55	Dear colleagues, I do, well, answer to a colleague about the opposition that has or does not have, what we offer. You see, we're proposing laws that reject you. It's your right, you're the majority. You have taken responsibility for the future development of Ukraine's economy. I want to talk about something else. These bills that we have considered today, including Bill 3306, I sincerely regret that we did not vote for them. But I want to tell you, we didn't make any warnings about this bill. I think we will vote for him later when he is reworked. Because what's in there really applies to my industrial district, because it's about changing the form of depreciation, and you know, that's what unloads the tax pressure. Dear colleagues, today’s crisis, accompanied by the upheaval of basic sectors of the national economy, the catastrophic poverty of the people, began long before the world’s crisis. Remember in 2005, the then authority that came from Maidan, the law on the new budget, I remember, the Ukraine region -- the faction then did not vote for it, stopped all preferences for the domestic car, ship, aircraft and agricultural machinery. And what was to end in 2008, 2009 with the upgrade of basic real-economy products, was stopped. And today we have a negative that we have to overcome here together in this session room. Some insults here to show, some anger at some word of honour, of inconvenientity, it's just nobody here, believe me, not to anyone's face. And yet, the initiatives were when the then finance minister ordered that the fat of the oligarchs, the oligarchs, when all the preferences were stopped, should not be performed here today. And I'm just, well, embarrassed to hear about the big industry, about the basic capital, about the bad oligarchs again, someone went off again. Come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u56	Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the vote. Another suggestion is that we have another bill that refers to measures to mitigate the financial crisis. Let's take these bills as a basis, if you don't deny it, then we vote, we go back, all these bills, so that we can make, well, a judgmental decision. No objections? So now I'm voting on draft law, registration number 3396, amending some of the laws of Ukraine to reduce tax pressure and stimulate the development of the domestic market, 3396, please vote. Please vote. [[16:53:27]] For 193 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 166, "Club of Yulia Timoshenko" – 0, "Our Ukraine-People's Self-Defense" – 1, communists – 21, "Club of Lithuania" – 1. What if we put the first reading back on, right? Can we do it again first? I'm making a motion to re-read the draft law, registration number 3396. Please vote. [[16:54:17]] For 205 The decision is not taken. It is announced before the review of the Draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine, registration number 3515. [[on reducing the negative impact of the global financial and economic crisis on the domestic oil sector]] Reporter Sergey Osika. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u57	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, all respected colleagues! I represent a very short law, there are only two articles in it, but I think it is of sufficient importance to our oil-producing industry. What is it? Article 1. The SOT protocol, ratified in May of the past, has a conversion rate of 10 per cent for five years. We have something today that's zero, so we're not protected by imports. At the same time, we have about this balance, and Anatoly Kirilovich will confirm me. We consume about 600,000 tons a year, of which we only had 300,000 tons a year last year. Or we could produce about a million tons. So we suggest that the rate of 10 percent balance this situation a little bit and we can fully meet our needs at the expense of our own production. So far, the excess bitumen just burns with the oil, goes into the oil. That's the first thing. It's a different situation. Such an article, we have an export tariff, a restriction on the export of compressed gas. I'm giving you the numbers. Last year it was raised to 756 thousand, which means we're completely satisfying our needs, but the exports were done.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u58	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u59	It's only $55,000. If we cancel this ridiculous export tariff, we'll be able to export two hundred thousand tons a year. These countries are now subsidizing the production of compressed gas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u60	Thank you. Sergey Anatolyovich Teryohin, please. Who will speak from the committee? Please, Sergey Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u61	I'm sorry. The final negotiations with the faction of the Regions were. Dear National Deputies! The reporter has already talked about the essence of this issue, and we really don't use all of the possibilities to protect the internal market from the supply of low-quality bitumen products and low-cost products that compete with our manufacturers, on the other hand, we have an export duty on scrapped gas, which leads to industrial underdevelopment, and industry knows more about this than macroeconomicists do, let's say. Summary. The committee fully supported this unanimously, among other things, supported the decision. Once again, all factions, all factions. The Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council has also supported the Cabinet of Ministers. That is why the committee is proposing to adopt this law as a basis for today as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u62	Yes, thank you. Dear colleagues! Please sign up for the discussion. Please show me the names of the national MPs. National Deputy Zeynalov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u63	Edouard Zejnalov, faction "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense". I would like to add to what is happening that the Ukrainian oil industry has always had, provided for the needs of Ukraine in oil products, and had a very large expertise. Today, we see that, apart from Ukraine's failure to provide itself with oil products, very much, a large number of oil products are being imported by Ukraine. So the introduction of a 10% tax rate, I think is absolutely justified. Furthermore, today, when we talk about scrap gas, which is not a natural substance, but is a product of oil processing, having an export duty on scraped gas, we are not today using the possibilities that Ukrainian oil refineries have for exporting this product. So I ask my fellow national MPs to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u64	Yes, the honourable colleagues, all who signed up, spoke. A committee proposal. What? The committee's proposal to accept it in the first reading and generally as a law. But I'm going to put acceptance first. That's why I'm asking for your attention! A proposal for adoption is put to the vote on the basis of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on reducing the negative impact of the global financial and economic crisis on the domestic oil sector]] 3315 – vote, please. [[17:01:37]] For 404 Decision taken. Based on the base. The committee's proposal to accept as a matter of law. No warning? All in favor? I put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt as a whole as a bill of the Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on reducing the negative impact of the global financial and economic crisis on the domestic oil sector]] Please vote. [[17:02:25]] For 410 The law is passed. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? How would you feel about this proposal if we went back to these bills, which we had considered before, and didn't make a decision, and still voted in favour of adopting them as a basis? Is there a denial? Please don't come back then. Then those bills that we sent for rereading should be prepared for rereading. Those bills that aren't supported to send back the first reading, they're rejected so that you can have understanding in all of them. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the second reading of the bill. The draft Law, Registration No. 2606 on amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts, is being published, and the rapporteur is Roman Tkac, please. [[on documents certifying ownership of land as well as the division and consolidation of land]]
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u65	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, distinguished ones! You are considering a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts on Land Rights and Land Divisions. This bill was already adopted in the first reading, which was further elaborated on our second reading. I would still like to say that this is a very important bill and I would like to thank the group of authors led by Anatoly Matvienk who tabled this bill. In addition, all of our colleagues who made their remarks and suggestions for second reading are also Mr. Mikola Crutz, and MPs: Mishchenko, Pisarenko, Carmazin, and a number of others. But I want to say that this is a very important bill, and when we've already had this bill before us on the committee, and in principle, we've submitted it to a meeting of the Supreme Council, a number of suggestions have been received from our fellow deputies, particularly our colleague, Oleg Láška, and my remarks. That's why we've made a decision on our committee and we're asking you, Sir Vladimir Mikhailovich, to withdraw this bill with the proposals that have come and that will come today from our consideration and send it to our second reading committee and at the next session to consider. For the second reading again.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u66	Author Anatoly Matvienko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u67	Ukrainian Republican Party "The Council", "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" Block. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I would like to address you and may ask you in connection with such a precedent for one matter. In fact, when we decided on the second reading, we cut the deadline to one week. And because of the one-week cutback, really many of our colleagues, including Mr. Lazko, failed to make their proposals in time. But my second point is, what do we obviously need on the profile committees, at least the author?? report when the bill will be considered for second reading, because there is a lot of money here, which is a little bit of a different way of running this bill, and sometimes they change radically. So I think it would be worth your, I know, interfering with it so we can keep doing it. Today, it is suggested that, if possible, we continue to consider the second reading rather than the second reading, we vote on the second reading and thus solve the problem and make it quality.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u68	Dear colleagues, there's no warning that we're going to make a second decision, but we've clearly defined the term, let's say on March 5, I think that's enough. Valerius Pisarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u69	Thank you. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I was just about to support your initiative, because, well, so that we don't hide this law anywhere so that we can put it in order on the first working day of the next week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u70	Well, it's going to be a Thursday, so let's vote for the second reading, and at the same time, let's put it on the schedule for the March 5th meeting, and on March 6, yes, on the fourth plenary week. Is such a proposal supported? I put it to a vote, yes, for a second reading and a review of this bill in the next plenary week on Thursday. [[17:08:01]] For 389 Decision taken. A draft law amending some of Ukraine's privatisation laws is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 2331]] Alexander Mikolaiovich Bondar, please head of the Committee on Economic Policy subcommittee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u71	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. So to privatize our long-suffering relationship that at the end of the day we are considering very conceptually important laws. An important State privatization program was considered yesterday. Today, two laws are being revised: privatization of state property and small privatization, as well as amendments and additions to legislation on the characteristics of the privatization of unfinished construction and in the agro-industry complex. First of all, I would like to draw the attention of the deputies to the fact that these legislative changes are directly linked to the State Privatization Program that we discussed yesterday. All standards are consistent. The bill received 125 proposals from members of the people. 81 are included, 18 are included in part, and 26 are rejected. I would like to point out that after reviewing the proposals made by MP Marmazov regarding the need to define one of the conditions for a competitive enterprise, the committee considered them and offered to support them. [[No. 74/115]] I would like to take this bill very seriously right now and realize that privatization is neither allowed nor prohibited. There are completely new mechanisms for transparent and open privatization, which so much is spoken of by national deputies. Like what? We enter in the 5th article the entire list of objects that are not allowed to privatize, regardless of whether they are included in the banned or unbanned list, cannot be privatized at all times. I mean, you don't have to include them in the banned list, they fell into the 5th article of this law and that's it. They're forbidden. If we want to impose an additional ban on the privatization of objects, we include them in the banned list. The other one. We prohibit the holding fund from declaring itself or ending the competition for its own judgment. Only according to the decision of the court that came into legal effect. I mean, there were no charges. Third. It is forbidden for the Fund to set additional conditions on its own, that is, conditions that cut off potential buyers, except in the case of experience in a particular field. You know that there were a lot of complaints about the Maintenance Fund and a lot of complaints about that. And finally. Since the bill actually introduces two new texts of two laws and then changes in two more laws, in agreement with the Legal Department and with Alexander Vladimirovich Lavrinovich, I have agreed to do so, and I propose to vote these laws separately. This will be easier both in signing and vetoing and amending. So go through the amendments to the first law, then vote on the second, and then change on the third, vote on the last three. I've got everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u72	Dear colleagues, the offer is clear. In order not to overturn the entire law, but to go through parts of it, to adopt three laws separately by considering the amendments accordingly. Alexander Volodymyrovich, please, for this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u73	Dear colleagues, this will be a real precedent. We've never had that in the Supreme Council, and it wasn't in the legislative practice at all. But you missed just when you took the first reading, the wrong approach, when there were two laws in one draft of the law entirely, from the beginning to the end in the new edition and then the other changes. I mean, in standard technology, it's unacceptable. But since this was approved in the first reading, each of them was approved in the first reading. In order to get out of the way, the proposal now made by the committee head deserves to be supported in a separate second-reading vote and in general for each of these laws. So that we can get out of the situation that we created by voting in the first reading. I'd like to support the committee's proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u74	No warning? Well, then let's go to the repairs. Page two of Eugene Marmazov’s amendments. It's rejected. You didn't count it? You insist on this amendment, don't you? Amendment 5, Anatoly Seminoga insists? No, it's not. Amendment eight, Oily, are you insisting on it? No, it's not. Correction of Anatolia Seminoga 15th. Don't insist. The 17th Seminog. Is he insisting? 18th. No, it doesn't. Yeah, let's keep going. Amendment to the 41st Eugen Marmazov. There's no insistence? None. 43rd. Don't you insist? No, it's not. 49th. No, they don't. 57th. There's no insistence. 70th, Seminomist. Don't insist. 71st, Marmazov. Don't insist. 74th. Don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u75	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, 74th Committee proposes to consider.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u76	The 74th Amendment Committee counted. Please, Eugene Marmazov, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u77	Alexander Nikolaevich, in the 74th amendment, that is, certainly what conditions should be adopted when privatization takes place. I have made a proposal to make sure that business activity is included. It's a mandatory competitive environment. Why was he rejected? Because many accept, privatize profitable enterprises and then show them zero profits, and the State receives nothing. So why don't we include a requirement for a competition – a compulsory business activity?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u78	Eugene Vasilovich, at the beginning of the report, I said that the 74th Amendment and the 115th Committee would like to take this into account. This 74th amendment is considered by the committee. If it has to be voted on, is it?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u79	Dear colleagues, the committee took into account 74 amendments. The author of the amendment reasoned with her. We'll just count. Is there no need to vote? None. Let's move on. 78th Amendment, Eugene Marmazov. Are you insisting on her? No, it's not. Oilman, '80s. Is our colleague insisting? No, it's not. Correction to the 88th Alexander Lavrinovich. It's okay. Mikola Ivanovich Derkac, 89th. Are you insisting on her? No, it's not. Oilman, 92nd. Is he insisting? Ninety-three? Don't insist. Eugene Marmazov, 95th Amendment. No, it's not. Amendment 111 by Alexander Lavrinovich Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u80	Dear colleagues, in this case, it's about counting the funds into the state budget special fund, that is, directing development rather than using these funds from privatization to financing in general, which should be made up of completely different sources. So I'd like to listen to this so that at this time of crisis, we need a development without which there can be no way out of the crisis. So I would like to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u81	Please, the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u82	Alexandre Volodymyrovich, indeed, the cost of privatization, including fines, comes to the Special Fund of the State Budget. Since the Budget Code states that privatisation revenue comes into the state budget, so we wrote. And the State Budget Special Fund is one of the units. So that includes your amendment, we don't deny it, but it's in line with the Budget Code. It's under the Budget Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u83	I understand a certain nuance here. You can understand it this way, as it's written in the Budget Code, but since there are two components in the Budget Act, and we understand very well how they were used, I know in my own experience what a general fund is, what a special fund is. So if there is an understanding that this is exactly what it should be, I would ask your support to write down the “special fund”.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u84	No, well, the thing is, all the costs of privatization go into the budget, and fines do. We can't change the name now. Then we should go back to the preceding article. But they're all going to the special fund now. I would simply like to understand that this is the budget code.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u85	Since you were convincing, the author withdraws his insistence. So, dear fellows, we're the first law. Eugene Marmazov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u86	Vladimir Mikhailovich, there are 24 amendments. It's written that is partially counted, and there, in fact, my amendment was not taken into account. This is page 15, paragraph 3. Well, what's not privatized is listed as: nadra, useful fossils, state-wide water resources, in brackets, except for artificial water, not more than one million cubic metres. I suggested that "except the artificially created" be put down, because, well, what did we live to be? Water has already been privatized in each village.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u87	What kind of correction is that?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u88	That's my 24th amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u89	24th, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u90	Mine. It was written that it was partially accounted for. She's, in fact, unaccounted for. Water bodies should not be privatized. Almost all water bodies have now privatized in the villages, it is impossible to approach the watercourses, and so on and so forth. In addition, it is the Constitution of Nadra, and water is a public asset. That's why I'm suggesting you lower these spikes, Alexander Nikolayevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u91	Please, Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u92	The point is that the 24 amendments apply to a much larger number of objects, and they introduce a new completely fifth - article graduation. If only individual plumbers, I do not deny it, but 24 amendments are larger than the text. Well, your 24th amendment goes to five pages. That's why we partly counted it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u93	Please, Eugene Marmazov's microphone. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u94	Well, I'm telling you, Alexander Nikolaevich, look carefully, it's a page, but it's a 24th page, but it's an issue. Here you are, page 15 third paragraph. “Nadra, useful fossils, water resources, staples other than water pipes”. That's what we need to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u95	Well, he agrees, that's the position he agrees with, for the stenographer. Dear colleagues, as we agreed, we will now put the first part to the vote, this is a draft law. a new edition of the Law on Privatization of State Property. Please prepare for the vote. Let us put in place a new edition of the Ukrainian Law on Privatization of State Property, which defines the mechanism, not the objects. Please vote. [[17:21:59]] For the 220. The factions, please. Region Party – 1, “Timoshenko Yulia Block” – 155, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” – 44, Communists – 0, “Litvina Block – 20. Alexander Mikolaiovich, once again, tell us what is going on, fellow dignitaries, the definition of procedures and mechanisms that are not specific objects. If we do not clearly write down the rules, then we will complain that they are privatizing as they please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u96	I'm asking the national MPs to concentrate. We're not allowing any object here or banning privatization, we're banning all corruption schemes, all bypass maneuvers for undiscovered opaque privatization. Only open competitions are allowed. I don't understand why such ideas are not supported by MPs who are critical of today's privatisation situation on all screens. I'm asking "Our Ukraine" what's wrong with the country, if we are, we're going to introduce mechanisms for open and transparent privatization? We don't allow anything in here.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u97	Roman Zvaric, please. Dear colleagues! I'm asking for your attention! I understand that we're tired of emotion, but we have to make decisions that we have to make. Please, Roman Zvarich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u98	Dear colleagues! It is rare to consider a bill in this room that clearly defines procedural rules. I would ask you not to think about the political categories here, because if I were in the Kabmin place, I wouldn't want this law, because there are so clearly set standards that even restrict Kabmin in some preparatory work to privatize individual subjects of state property. But this law is necessary in order to regulate the process of privatizing public property. That's why I insist, I'm just asking you to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u99	Valerius Pisarenko, please. And invite the deputies to the session room!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u100	Dear colleagues! You know, the last year we've talked to you a lot about privatization, about how to do it, and we're only showing you one thing that we want to do in our country, that we can crash. Look, do we not want the State Privatization Program with you? We don't want to. Today, improving privatization procedures is no one wants to do that either. I'll even tell you why you don't want to. Because the President of Ukraine, Viktor Yushchenko, has today set the main task for Ukraine's budget not to be filled by privatization. That's why today you're blocking the adoption of the necessary laws that the President in his decrees insists that they are necessary for the country to begin the privatisation procedure. How many regional parties can the EU and the EU block privatisation in Ukraine? And I want to go to the Communist Party. You have the Privatization Commission, you're in charge. What's the problem with unlocking today?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u101	Yes, Ivan Stojko, please. And now we're going to keep working. Okay, there'll be a line.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u102	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! I would like to point out that “Our Ukraine”, Mr Alexander, voted in favour of this bill. We understand that he is needed today, but now a young man, a deputy, has come forward and has just blamed not only me, but also the group that openly supports the President today. That's why I'm not voting anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u103	Please, Alexander Ephraim. And Adam Martinyuk. And everyone just took the floor, and we're going to vote now.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u104	Dear colleagues from the coalition, we have one request for you: don't confuse everything in your head into one glass. If you haven't learned to work and learn to manage the economy, and you're trying to fill the State budget only by selling businesses that were built by our ancestors, one moment, and the other moment by running around the world with your hand and asking for something, what are we doing here with the Party of the Regions? We will not support your proposals to eat up the property that remains in Ukraine. And do not tempt us to do so, our esteemed colleagues. We will support only if this is aimed at the development of our economy, for the construction of new enterprises. And here we have not heard any suggestions from you. And your activity.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u105	Adam Martinyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u106	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, well, I can forgive a colleague-deputy who doesn't know much about the Communist Party program, even though it's worth studying. Communists cannot vote in favour of improving privatization laws because they are firm opponents of privatization. Therefore, we should not be blamed. The other one. I would like to remind you that we are leading the commission, not through privatization, but through the control of privatization. It's different things. And the third. Yesterday, you had a fairly calm 239, 236 vote on rehabilitation or on the adoption of NATO laws. Gather around, mobilize and vote for privatization if it makes you so hot.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u107	Yes, please, Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u108	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that, as of today, there are laws on privatization, they are in force. Today, there is a State Privatization Program that was adopted as early as 2000. And we're going to adopt these laws, or we're not going to adopt them, all privatization is going to go. But I insist that much has changed since 2000. And we have to make radical changes there, and we tried to do that. Almost all the amendments, including, first and foremost, the Marmazov deputy, were taken into account by the review board. I totally understand the Communist faction, she never voted in favour of privatization laws. But I don't understand the Party of Regions. I don't understand. Why? You don't make a new law that allows privatization, it already is. You are making changes that are long overdue and that await our society. I'm asking you to take a close look at this and not make it out of it, really, the discovery that we seem to be allowing is opening up privatization. And I want to tell you, no words to the President's address or position. I'm a law reporter, and I ask you to listen to my words, and I'm asking you to uphold this law. I'm talking to the faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u109	Dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts. I want to emphasize once again what our colleague just said is a reporter. The legal basis is, it's imperfect, sometimes it's weak, it's going to work. If we don't take a new one, a new one to ensure transparency and accountability in these matters. If we're not going to make this decision with political motives and arguments right now, then things are going to get worse. And I would ask you not to persuade each other here, but to vote to those to whom it belongs. Let us return to this issue and vote. Unfortunately, we put up a standoff when we considered laws on prejudice, warning financial crisis, everyone voted for their own. We had to make these decisions, and then when we were preparing for the second reading, we'd go to the agreed position and stop sharing us here in the session room. So I would like your attention once again, and I will now put to the vote a return to the review of the law on the new edition of the Ukrainian Law on Privatisation of State Property, a new edition, no more, on return. Please vote. [[17:31:11]] For 216 The decision is not taken. Huh? Well, on re-second reading, the committee proposes to put a new draft of the Ukrainian Law on Privatisation of State Property. Please vote. [[17:31:37]] For 214 The decision is not taken. Let's move on. Please now draft the Law on Privatisation of Small State Enterprises, so-called small privatisation. Please, this is page 76.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u110	Well, it's also a new version of the law that applies to small objects. It also includes most of the amendments. I'm not going to do a thorough analysis. Please proceed as amended.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u111	I'm sorry. Yes, fellow believers, this law ends on page 97. So, Alexander Mikolayovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u112	I'll tell you what. Yeah, 97th.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u113	All adjustments are included. So, dear colleagues, please. Dear colleagues, I ask you to stop holding the meeting temporarily, prepare for the vote. The proposal to adopt a new draft Ukrainian Law on Privatisation of Small State Enterprises is put to the vote, [[low privatization]] Please vote. [[17:33:35]] For 213 The decision is not taken. What? Now let's put the second one again. I am voting for a second reading of the Ukrainian Law on Privatization of Small State Enterprises. [[new editor]] Please vote. [[17:34:10]] For 215 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party - 1, Block of Timoshenko - 155, Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense - 39, Communists - 0, Block of Lithuania - 20. Now, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u114	Now we're making changes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u115	And now, dear colleagues, we are now moving on to a draft law amending some of Ukraine's privatization laws. Please, Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u116	Here, on page 97 of this Act, amendments are made to the Law on the Specificities of Privatization of Property in the Agricultural Complex, in particular the privatization of unfinished construction, and the Act is repealed by such a framework “On the formation of competitive principles in the process of privatization of public-owned particle shares”. [[pears]] So I'm asking for amendments starting with page 97.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u117	Amendment 117. Does the oil guy insist? 118. Nor does he insist. 123 The Oilman, does he insist? Seminoga, 124? There's no insistence? All corrections are taken into account. So please prepare for the vote. The proposal for a second reading committee and, in general, the bill of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Laws of Privatisation is put to the vote. Please vote. [[17:36:12]] For 208 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues! I am voting on the proposal to refer this draft law to read again. Please vote. [[17:36:39]] For 214 The decision is not taken. How can we do this again? We can't. That's it. Since he was already accepted, what can we do? Dear colleagues! Regrettably, it must be noted that the great work carried out by the appropriate committee went up in flames. I understand those who associate themselves with the opposition, but I can't understand those who seem to support the state, support the government, support their ministers who guided the government, and don't vote in favour of these bills. It's an installation to make it worse. It's gonna get worse. We'll see who gets better. I don't think there's any more way to persuade you. Parliament will not be a parliament when it is governed by institutions outside Parliament. Today you are doing well. [[Applause]] A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[for Rent Relations]] I'd like to see that at least one parliament in the world that doesn't respect itself when people work and make the right decisions. You think we'll do worse for the government and Timoshenko? No! No! The worse we do to people, they're going to privatize under the laws they're implementing today. Please. The draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine, Registration No. 0903, Reporter - Alexander Mikolaiovich Bondar, please. [[for Rent Relations]]
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u118	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, for your support. We've really done a lot of work on all these bills. I don't think this bill will make any more comments. This bill was passed by the Cabinet of Ministers in the past. We accepted it in the first reading and the second reading included all the amendments made by the Cabinet of Ministers and the deputies. No amendment to the list has been rejected. So, if there is no objection, this law simply introduces, regulates leases, interacts with other laws, with the code of commerce, removes differences, and introduces a more modern normative framework here in order to protect the interests of the state. There's no word here about privatization. Here, on the contrary, procedures for the disposal of property through a lease on government property are being complicated. I ask that this law be supported in the second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u119	Dear colleagues, all the adjustments are taken into account. So there is every reason to put a bill on your mind. I put to the vote a proposal for a second reading committee and, as a whole, a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on leases, registration No. 0903, please vote. [[17:40:28]] For 403 The law is passed. It is announced before the review of the Draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on State and Municipal Property Rental, registration number 0904. [[on the protection of the rights of owners]] Reporter: Alexander Mikolaiovich Bondar Please, Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u120	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished national MPs, this is the law of MP 5 calling our colleague Bespalo Boris, who was accepted in the past when he was called on in the first reading, before the second reading, I, as a deputy, made amendments that harmonize him with the normative practice, largely based on the observations of the Scientific and Experimental Authority. They are all taken into account and included also the amendment of MP Marmazov. This law is designed to protect the right of the owner, in the first state, well, it provides that leases cannot be automatically extended without any conditions if the owner does not consent. It must be the owner's consent and he must, if he does not agree, warn the tenant that he will not continue the lease. I think that this law is useful for today's situation, it applies to books and books, the polygraph that we've been looking at, and I'm asking him to accept it in the second reading and in general as a law. All corrections have been counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u121	Dear colleagues, all the adjustments are taken into account, no warning? No, I can't see. There is a motion for a second-reading committee to vote and, as a whole, draft law, registration number 0904 amending the Ukrainian Law on State and Municipal Property Rental. [[on the protection of the rights of owners]] Please vote. [[17:42:40]] For 381 The law is passed. Announcing the draft Act on Supplements to the Act on Concessions of Ukraine, registration number 0949. [[on the characteristics of concession contracts in centralized water, heating and water supply activities]] Reporter: Bondar Alexander Mikolaiovich Please, Alexander Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u122	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. This bill is also transitional from the past composition of the Supreme Council. His authors: Kucherenko and Bondar You know that Kucherenko is now the Minister for Municipal Affairs. This law provides for the avoidance of abuses in the transfer of gas and water supplies into concessions. He introduces more stringent standards for the transfer into the concession of objects by their control and permission to do so. If the terms of the concession are broken, it is possible to terminate concession contracts, to disqualify the licensee of the concessionaire. Two amendments — Bondar and Marmazov’s deputy — are included. Please accept this law in the second reading and in general. I've got everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u123	Dear colleagues, there were two amendments. They're accounted for. Is there no objection to the committee's proposal to adopt it as a whole as a law? I put to the vote a proposal for a second-reading committee and, as a whole, a bill to amend the Ukrainian Act on concessions on the specificity of the application of concession contracts in the conduct of centralized water, heating and water supply activities. [[Registration number 0949]] Please vote. Take the lead on Mikhail Vasilovich and we vote. [[17:45:01]] For 367 The law is passed. The factions, please. Region Party – 152, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko” – 144, “Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense” – 52, Communists – 0, “Clocus of Lithuania” – 19. Dear colleagues, we should now consider a bill amending some of Ukraine's pension insurance laws. I want to ask you again, because they came from the committee and from the faction, they say that the bill is still in the process of not looking at it. Is there any objection to delaying the consideration of this bill? None. Thank you. A draft Act amending article 65 of the Ukrainian Higher Education Act is being announced for consideration. [[on the creation of self-sustainment units]] [[Registration number 0951]] [[second reading]] Vitaly Semenovich Kurilo. And Vladimir Ivanovich Polochalo is head of the Committee on Education and Science, Science and Education.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u124	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The bill, which was passed by the Ukrainian national deputy, Mr. Taras Crnovil, proposes to supplement article 65 of the Ukrainian Higher Education Act with a new part in which it is assumed that higher education institutions with status nationals can create self-accounting units. Making changes is caused by the need to eliminate contradictions arising from the existing law, namely, the lack of a clear understanding that the structures created by the higher education institution can provide legitimate pay services. The committee has been working on this bill, taking into account the comments and suggestions of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration and the Committee of the Supreme Council on Legal Policy, namely the need to determine the legal status of self-accounting units. The committee proposes to replace the term “self-accounting unit” with “structural unit” for the purpose of valid legal formulation. The other one. Allowing them to create such structural units and higher education institutions that do not have national status. And the third. Not to indicate what kind of pay services are being provided in the field of higher education, since this issue is already regulated by a decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The committee decided unanimously, all members of the committee of all six parties and five factions, to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the bill in second reading and in general. In times of crisis and in the face of today’s problems of higher education, settlement, and legal settlement, it will help higher educational institutions to survive in these difficult conditions. The committee suggests, once again, in the second reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u125	Dear colleagues, no warnings, no comments? Yuri Miroshnichenko, please. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u126	Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear colleagues, I fully support the idea of the bill and in principle I do not deny to accept it in general. But there are these things, in what form of organization do they have to exist? There's no definition for that. Maybe now we'd take that question into consideration and include it. At that time, the whole vote was taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u127	Dear colleagues! I would ask our colleague Yuri Miroshnick to withdraw this warning as far as possible. Because they work. This is about expanding the possibility. In the past, such a right was exercised only by the branches that had national status. And it was just a narrow profile. And in order to survive, the whole spectrum just needs to be legalized. And they act according to the laws and regulations that are approved by the institutes. The explanation is accepted. Note withdrawn. I put to the vote a proposal for a second-reading committee and, as a whole, a bill amending article 65 of the Ukrainian Higher Education Act, registration number 0951. [[on the creation of self-sustainment units]] Please vote. [[17:50:07]] For 402 The law is passed. Dear colleagues, we were about to consider draft Law, registration number 0957. The committee requests that his consideration be postponed in connection with the condition of the reporter. Is there any objection? Then we'll have to postpone to the next plenary week the bill, registration number 0957. A draft law on the approval of the National Programme for HIV Prevention, Treatment, Care and Support of HIV-infected and AIDS Patients for 2009-2013, registration number 2695, is under review. Aunt Dmitry's bachelor from the committee, please. You don't? Who will report from the committee? Please, Adam Martinyuk, microphone. Yes, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u128	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, there are no arrangements here. 0957 is necessary, if the Supreme Council agrees to move or withdraw, then another matter. What the committee decides is the committee's business. We need to consider, or the Supreme Council will support, whether to postpone the consideration of the matter or to remove it from consideration, or. Please take the vote of the Supreme Council, article 57. It's by the teachers and so on, what you do.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u129	Dear colleagues, no, there is Aunt Dmitrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u130	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u131	Dear colleagues, one minute, Auntie Dimitrovno. The point is, the reporter for this law, our colleague, she's sick. And so the committee is asking, if we've postponed it, if there's an insistence, let's now finish this consideration and go back to this bill. No warning? Well, we'll make a deal. Please, Aunt Dmitry.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u132	Yes, I'm sorry for the delay. We were very busy discussing the subject. Today, a joint meeting was held between the College of Minhvod and the Committee on Health Affairs on HIV and AIDS. This is a problem that is very and very relevant and very scary for Ukraine. Because of the fact that Ukraine has, unfortunately, been leading the disease, disability and mortality from the disease of HIV and AIDS in 27 years of existence. On 30 September last year, we voted in favour of the bill on first reading. The Health Committee, on first reading, carried out the mandate of the Supreme Council and prepared a draft programme for second reading. The draft was supported by the Committee and announced by the General Legal Office without comment. I believe that the programme finalized by our Committee for second reading, which will work for 2009-2013, is generally progressive, meets modern requirements and has a number of advantages over all previous other programmes. In preparation for the second reading of the National Programme for the Prevention of HIV, Treatment, Care and Support of HIV-infected AIDS for 2009-2013, 75 proposals of the people's deputies were considered, 66 of which were taken into account, 2 were partially taken into account and 7 were rejected. The amendments to the Committee of the People's Deputy, Mr. Pavel Ivanovich, on funding for the establishment of centres for HIV-positive children and young people, as well as centres for drug-dependent youth, were partially taken into account. With regard to the unaccounted for amendments, this is the amendment by Nikolai Ivanovich Derkac, concerning the postponement of the dates of the programme from 1 January 2009. But that's not possible, because the ninth year will then be without a program. We can't let that happen today. The five amendments made by the people's representative of Ukraine, Zosulai, were also not taken into account. They all relate to almost the same issue: the use of disposable sterile medical devices by treatment institutions, but only domestic production. For this purpose, it should be allocated within 120 million United States dollars. Grieve. All other amendments are taken into account. Regrettably, the amendment of the people's representative of Costenko, which dealt with the financing of the multi-disciplinary system, had yet to be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u133	Yeah, why don't we go to the repairs, Aunt Dmitry? Dear colleagues, amendment number one. Mikola Ivanovich's screamer, do you insist on her? No, it's not. I'm going to stop at the amendments that are rejected. If someone insists on the correction taken into account, then we will return. Fifth Amendment. Zosul's national deputy. Is he insisting? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u134	The point is that Ukraine is systematically imported from China, India, into one-off medical use, which is not sterile. And this is the most basic source of AIDS infection. Therefore, my proposal was for an amendment to avoid the AIDS epidemic, yet to purchase from a domestic producer which is sterile and which has sterile control, because I have repeatedly written to the minister, wrote to the committee that is now entering the containers a product that no one controls at the entrance to Ukraine. When I walk through here, I'll tell you, the sterility stops at 40 degrees. When you're in the account. The red sea, where the temperature is 70 degrees Fahrenheit [70 ° C], I am very interested in the issue of sterility. That's why I insist on my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u135	Please, Aunt Dmitry.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u136	In general, this issue can really be discussed today, because it will indeed be our domestic product, and it is very good. We don't have any today. It will be decided by the tender committee and that today, in such a difficult economic environment, it will be plus money for our country and will dissipate the local budget, including our jobs. In general, I do not object to supporting this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u137	Dear colleagues! Is the amendment understood? A colleague of Zosul suggests that we establish the provision of sterile medical products for the single use of domestic production. Although there is a question. So I'm voting on this proposal, this amendment. Amendment number 5. Please. Well, domestic production means what they are, they're made. [[17:58:10]] For 333 Correction counted. The corresponding amendment of 10 of Zosuli's colleagues -- it's also counted, it's the same thing. Right? Yeah, let's do some repairs. Amendment of the 28th Zosuli People's Deputy: To supplement paragraph 10 of the improvement measures after “antiretrovirals” with the words “and medical disposables”. Well, we've already voted, so we just have to get it right. Don't you have to vote? There's no insistence? Well, let's move on. I remind my respectable colleagues that we've continued our work for 15 minutes, so don't point to the clock. Amendment 31, National Deputy of Zosula. Are you insisting on her? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u138	I insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u139	Please. That's page eight.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u140	I insist on this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u141	It's about increasing the amount of funding. Aunt Dmitrovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u142	In view of the current situation in the implementation of the AIDS and HIV infection programme, this represents only 50 per cent of the funding required and 3.5 billion grivens have been invested in the programme, at a time when a total of 7 billion has been prepared and only 50 per cent funded under the 2008 budget. I think it would be very good if we supported funding for 120 million bracelets today. That'll be very right.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u143	Dear colleagues, as far as there is insistence, I'm putting to the vote the amendment of the 31st National Deputy Zosuli. I'd like to make a statement. Please determine how to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u144	And the budget doesn't vote, you see. [[18:00:40]] For 214 Correction not accepted. Dear colleagues, the amendment of the 55 people's deputies of Costenka. Are you insisting on her? Paul Costenka. [[B in m in s a l in]] No Costenko?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u145	But he insists.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u146	Let's move on. Amendment 61 of Zosuli’s colleague Are you insisting on her? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u147	I insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u148	Huh?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u149	I insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u150	To complete the stated list of measures after the words “the health insurance route” with the words “medical products of disposable use of domestic production”. We've already counted this, so we don't have to insist. Dear colleagues, we have considered all the amendments. The committee's proposal to accept it in second reading and generally as a law. Yes, Aunt Dmitry? Is there no other offer? The proposal for a second-reading committee is put to the vote as a bill of draft law, registration number 2695, “On the approval of a state-wide HIV prevention programme, treatment, care and support for HIV-infected and AIDS patients for 2009-2013”. Registration number, again, 2695. [[18:02:32]] For 409 The law is passed. Dear colleagues, thank you. There was an insistence that we should amend the Ukrainian Law on the Restructuring of Debt from Payments, provided for in article 57 of the Ukrainian Law on Education for Teachers, Science and Education and other categories of cultural workers should be considered in the absence of an informant. Dear colleagues! If you'll let me in, I'll comment. [[I was a member of this committee, and we were looking at this bill.]] A number of amendments to the bill were introduced: Garden and Leichuk, which is still transitional. A rejected amendment by the people’s representative of prison. My colleague, Jazyniński, insists on this amendment? No, it's not. The committee proposes adopted in second reading and generally as a law. Any other suggestions? Please prepare for the vote. I put to the vote a proposal for a second reading committee and, as a whole, a bill of draft law, registration number 0957 amending the Ukrainian Law on the Restructuring of Debt from Payments under Article 57 of the Ukrainian Law on Education for Teachers, Science and Education and Other Categories of Education Workers. Please vote. [[18:04:19]] For 413 The law is passed. A draft law on increasing responsibility for early payment or payment is announced for consideration. [[We went on for 15 minutes.]] A draft Law of 2473 on increasing liability for late payment or unjustified non-payment of salaries, scholarships, pensions or other statutory payments is announced for consideration. [[second reading]] Report: Victor Dmitrovich Schwetz, head of the Committee on Legislative Security and Law Protection. Please, the deputy head of the committee will report.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u151	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! A committee on law enforcement was prepared for second reading by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of the Bill on Strengthening Responsibility for Indemnity of Payment or Unjustified Failure to Pay Wages, Fellowships, Pensions or Other Legal Payments. The mechanism of responsibility for such actions consists of two chains. The first is article 41 of the Code of Administrative Offences. We propose to increase economic fines to 510. From 510 to 1700. So the compressions are going to go up exactly twice. We had two amendments to increase them, but the committee concluded that the amount of fines offered by the government was quite sufficient. Now all it takes is the proper application of the relevant organs. The second link I spoke about was the Criminal Code of Ukraine, article 175 of the Criminal Code, and it was also amended to reflect the systematic approach of the bill, particularly to the subject matter of the crime. In addition, fines have also been increased from 8.5 to 17,000 dollars. A fine of between 17 and 25,000 dollars is raised for non-earmarked wages. There are also other forms of punishment, such as correction, restriction, or imprisonment. I emphasize that in all cases there is a denial of the right to hold certain positions or to engage in certain activities. In general, there were six amendments to the bill. Only those involved in excessive, according to the committee, increases in fines are rejected. I also point out that the bill is being drafted in the General Legal Office without any notice. Thus, the Committee believes that the adoption of the bill will improve the state of criminal regulation in the field of the protection of labour rights of citizens and recommends that the Supreme Council adopt the bill on second reading and generally as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u152	Dear colleagues, let's go to the repairs. Moisik’s colleagues Volodymyr Romanovich’s amendment is counted, and Yuri Karmazin’s second was rejected. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u153	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear friends, I've asked the question exactly what my colleague Shemchuk is now reporting on that I felt that the violation of the prescribed terms of retirement, scholarships, salary and payment of them in full and other violations of labour law requirements that we are currently seeing in mass order are being done by the Kyiv State Administration under the leadership of a large space measure, because what this family is doing is causing us to do in the morning until the Attorney General's night, because, I see, the prosecutor is not in the city. And I propose to raise the fines, and by analogy, as we did with the Road Traffic Rules, we raised them as much as possible, and it started to scare people. So I'm just conceptually asking questions about raising them twice again, 60 and 200 untaxed minimum income. This is the conceptual position in this amendment and in the following amendment, in the third amendment, Vladimir Mikhailovich. And here, as it is, it's a political decision that the Supreme Council will make.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u154	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u155	The position of the committee was as follows: the government is proposing to increase the fines twice; the honourable colleague Karmazin proposes to raise them fourfold. If he insists on this proposal, then the session room will be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u156	My dear colleagues, the difference is once again, the difference is that Kabmin offers twice and Yuri Anatoliyevich four times the fine. That's it. So I'm putting this proposal to the vote, the proposal of the first Yuri Carmazin. [[18:09:22]] For 176 The decision is not supported. Please, then, the other amendments, Yuri Anatolyovich, they're meaningless, they're not supported. 5th Amendment. Please, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u157	Thank you very much to all who have supported. In fact, it is only about the political attitude of the Supreme Council toward the facts of what they are. Now it is quite different in the fifth amendment. This is about changes to article 175 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, I stress. You remember that this is not to be decided. And here's my offer. Make it out of two pieces and I suggest you make it. It's taken into account editorially, in fact, the first part. The second part, which provides for responsibility where it is written: “the same action if it is done as a result of purposeless use of the funds earmarked for the payment of salaries, scholarships, pensions, and other law enforcement agencies or has caused serious consequences”. Some have not received a salary, such as death if they have not been able to pay for the treatment and so on. There's already a heavy liability fine of one and a half thousand and so on. I mean, the qualifying sign is added. The committee counted the portion here, and nothing was said on the other side. I asked.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u158	Give it a chance to finish Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u159	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I'd like that. So that we can conceptually agree to make the second part a good sign that it wasn't just the company that wasn't making use of the funds, but the cost of the scholarships for everything else. We now have a group of rectors who have just started travelling at these costs to different countries. They've spent it, they've got it, and the pay and pension debt, according to the scholarships, more loyally, there are for the students. So this is actually what I write for them, for those who abuse this stuff. Believe me, it's an emergency, it's a very qualified sign that this is caused by the purposeless use of funds. I would ask the committee to agree and bring such a thing in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u160	I speak solely of the committee's position. The committee identified itself, that is, we have taken into account the increase in fines, as proposed by Yuri Anatolyevich, but the committee found it inappropriate to introduce the second part of this article. If the session room is determined to support Yuri Anatoliovich, I think no one will deny it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m1.u161	Dear colleagues, at the same time I have to put Yuri Karmazin's amendment to the vote, that's the fifth amendment, and I'm putting it to the vote. [[18:12:38]] For 211 Correction not accepted. At the same time, honourable colleagues, even with partial consideration for the amendments and taking into account the need for such legislation, let us support the committee’s proposal. However, no comments were made by the Chief Legal Authority. On adoption in second reading and as a whole as a bill of the Bill on Strengthening Responsibility for Indemnity of Payment or Unjustifiable Failure to Pay Wages, Fellowships, Pensions or Other Payments Established by Law. Registration number 2473, please vote, please vote. [[18:13:30.]] For 247 The law is passed. Thank you. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? We agreed with you both at the Conciliation Council meeting, and here, at a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, when a draft regulation on the establishment of the TSC on the investigation of the circumstances of the violation of the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, the adoption of unlawful decisions by officials of the Kyiv City Council and its executive body. We're going to ask this question. It's on the order of the day. They worked, reconciled proposals with factions, as well as with the Rules Committee, a parliamentary ethics committee. It's proposed to set up such a commission led by Kulikov Kiril Borisovich, the faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Deputy Head of TSK, Ukrainian National Deputy Kravchenko Mikola Vasilovich, Communist faction. And the warehouse. I'm reading. Bodnar, Seminoga, Yavorovsky, Lisov, Smitukh, Plotnikov, Miroshnichenko, Borisov and Schmidt. [[Timoshenko’s “Clock of July” faction]] [[the faction of the Party of the Regions]] [["Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" faction.]] [["Livina Block" faction]] And one more thing. The term of office of the commission shall be six months. Not as the TSC suggests, a year. Let's go for it. Three? Let's call it three months. If it's necessary, we'll continue. With that in mind, I'm voting on a draft order, registration number 4035, as a whole, as a decree. Please vote. The term of office is three months, and I announced to you the composition of the commission. [[18:15:44]] For 383 Decision taken. And last but not least, dear colleagues. There's a draft decree for the recovery of children in Cuba. He flips over to us from day to day. I'm asking for your attention. Those who were there saw what they were doing to improve the health of our children. But conditions are extraordinary. So why don't we just take this motion for a ruling? No objections? I'm voting on a draft decree to deepen the relationship between Ukraine and the Republic of Cuba in the area of implementing the Ukrainian children's assistance programme, which has been affected by the Chernobyl and other environmental disasters for adoption, as decisions, with the editorial rights that are needed there. Please vote. [[6:16:52]] For 383 Dear colleagues, for 383, the decision has been taken. On such a high note, I thank you for your work and announce the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed.
