ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Please enable the "Council" system. [[16:00:18]] There are 395 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. I declare the evening plenary session open. We continue our work according to the schedule of meetings for today. A draft law amending the Ukrainian Customs Tariff Act, registration number 3444-D, is being announced for consideration. Reportedly, the head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, Terjehohin Sergey Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u2	The President-in-chief, honourable national deputies, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Tax and Customs Policy for the implementation of the Supreme Council's decree of February 19th, has been working together with the Ministry of Economy of Ukraine and has discussed at its meeting on March 3, 2009, a revised bill amending the Ukrainian Customs Tariff Act. The bill provides for a new edition of the Ukrainian Law of April 5 on the Customs Tariff of Ukraine and in particular. Approval in the new edition of the Customs Tariff. In accordance with the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, all the rules relating to changes in import duties have been removed from the body of the bill. The amended bill aims only to bring Ukraine's legislative base into line with the system of universal rules of international law, including through the creation of the Customs Tariff, which is based on a new version of the Ukrainian classification of goods of external economic activity, based on a harmonised system of description and coding of goods of the 2007 model and combined with the European Union nomenclature. [[GS-2007]] Once again, I would like to point out that the rates of import duty in this bill are not affected. They are reflected at the level of the effective rate of duty. National deputies, members of the committee, unanimously expressed their support for the bill as a whole. I'd like to draw the attention of the people's deputies to one important point. On March 6, 2009, the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws took effect in order to improve Ukraine's balance of payments due to the financial crisis, more loyally already. This law amends the Customs Tariff Act to implement the procedure for the establishment, modification and cancellation of the temporary allowance. In order to avoid the legal colossion that came after the recruitment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u3	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u4	Thank you. By this legislative act, we must complement the text of Bill 3444, which is now being submitted, with the amendments to the Ukrainian Customs Tariff Act No. 923. The committee therefore requests the adoption of a bill on the basis and, as a whole, taking into account the mandatory introduction of those amendments to Ukraine's Customs Tariff Act, which are reflected in Law 923. This proposal is also found in the conclusion of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. Please support the committee’s decision to take these supplements into account. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u5	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Let's sign up for a discussion. There is no desire to share in the discussion. So there's a committee decision that proposes to adopt this bill as a basis and as a whole, and there's a conclusion that he needs to work on and position the committee head in order to accept today as a whole, taking into account the proposals put forward in another project. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft law amending the Ukrainian Customs Tariff Act, registration number 3444. I'd like to make a statement. [[16:05:16]] For-149 The bill is not supported. This was a rereading of the first reading. I think it's clear that the bill is off-limits. A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on housing is being announced for consideration. Registration number 2193. reports Anatoly Stepanovich Gricenko. Please. The rapporteur and the author of the bill are missing, and the bill is off-limits. A draft Law on Building Standards is being announced for consideration. Registration number 2587. reports National Deputy of Ukraine Serbin Yuri Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u6	Dear colleagues! What is the purpose of this law? We all want to discipline the builders so that they can carry out clear building standards so that our buildings and other buildings look good and quality and, most importantly, reliable. Sadly, though, at this time the building standards that they adopt have only the nature of the recommendations, that is, if the case comes to trial, we cannot protect these building standards and oblige the builders to carry them out. So this is the first argument under this law. Second argument. We now have all the departments, including the Minregonbud, doing a lot of their famous standards. It's impossible to find them. And when they start to build, especially industry, builders and customers, investors get confused about these standards. So the second norm of this law: which creates a data bank of building standards, which does not require any budgetary expenditure, but allows it to be oriented in all building standards so that they are not only implemented, but can be found. The main developer and coordinator of these building standards is, officially, Minregionbud or, if there is a reorganization, the central authority of the State responsible for the restructuring of the building. The third issue that is settled by this law. We have flaws in the drafting of laws and in their meaning for different regions. Thus, it is divided into three categories: State building standards that are required to be implemented in the territory of our nation, and local territorial building standards. So one region or another, they have their own characteristics, and so the standards are divided into three categories.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u7	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u8	And the last. Then I won't. There's a note from the Science and Technology Department. They can be used in their work, but the main point is that standards require registration in the Minista. The committee agrees with this and offers it after the adoption of these buildings. This law, in its first reading, is bound by a second reading and written down in law so that these building standards are registered in the Ministit. And the last. This is a pervasive law, it was adopted in the first and second readings by the fifth vocation, but unfortunately, because the Supreme Council was, we will say, incompletely on second reading, it was not signed. Nothing revolutionary he's going to bring into the building industry, he's not going to get out of the breakthrough or out of the pit, but he's going to need it in order for us to, to be able to demand that builders do what's normal so that we know that building standards are the law and that we can make order in this matter. It also helps us to adapt to the general European legislation. Thank you for your attention. Please support in the first reading as requested by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u9	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Yuri Sergiyovich now also used time to report to the committee. In agreement with my understanding that the change took place in the decision on the joint report to be made by the national deputy Yatsuba. Thank you. Please sign up for the discussion. Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u10	Dear colleagues, I remember how this bill, in fact, on the fifth call in the second reading, we considered it and we were still talking about that it would hardly be signed. He was not signed for political reasons. But I want to draw your attention and our voters to the following. This immensity and incoherence of today’s government in the area of construction, especially housing for people, is especially evident to us today. We've been looking at three bills, well, let's talk, we're looking at the third one: 2464, 2193 and 2587. I want to remind you, we've passed a law on prevention financially here in the hall. Well, to prevent a financial crisis in the development of construction and housing. Do you remember that he envisioned the provision of State support to the construction industry? And what are we hearing about today? Dear colleague Serbin, he may be right, but this law, his bill completely falls out of those events, of those actions of today's power that are taking place in our eyes. Here's a letter from the Zaporozhye City Council signed by the head of the city council saying that all of our bills are not being implemented -- support for the construction sector. Because it's already been developed by the Ministry of Finance, Ukraine's draft Decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, some questions about optimization, recognition of the total cost of investment programs and projects. What's this all about? There will be changes in the pricing of construction by refusing to compensate part of the cost of construction work at the expense of the construction worker. So the crisis is going to get deeper in the building industry. And people who have been on the line for decades now, and there's no hope of getting housing. And those formerly youthful labor hostels where the third and fourth generations have been driven out by people who are doomed to extinction. We need a comprehensive program.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u11	Finish up, please, Jaroslav Mikhajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u12	Dear colleagues, I am particularly referring to specialists, to the profile committee: we need to adopt and develop a comprehensive programme to support our domestic construction sector. Why? But because this is the same sector that today, in a situation of deep systemic crisis, will allow us to fill our internal market with our Ukrainian metal, our direct services of the construction sphere. These meticulous, chaotic bills don't give us anything to provide our population with housing.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u13	Thank you. Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u14	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! I'm going to do something from a different point of view and from an ideology than just a colleague of Suhi. The one who has a bearing on the construction, the one who faces it, the one who sees how it is being built now, should probably thank the authors who want to adjust, because right now everyone who was or wasn't a builder is building. Now it's built all over the place to rip out, buy a piece of land and make millions, millions and millions of dollars on it. Any standards are being violated, any building standards and standards are being violated. I know there used to be extremely serious government inspections on construction. Do they exist today? Maybe there is. But do they affect the quality of construction today? They don't. And I'm very and very afraid, I don't want to call trouble, but I'm afraid that those skyscrapers, these super-modern houses that are built to like, only beautiful outwardly, that they can bring us trouble and bring us trouble because they're built to break any norm. So, dear colleagues, let's support this bill. But let's support it in the first reading, because there are moments. I'm not an expert builder, for example, but I still can't agree with that. And I'm asking the author, a respected specialist, why divide the standards into nationals, branches and locals? The requirement for construction should be one state level, one standard. And what's specific, seismology and so on, that can be taken into account on the basis of the state standard. On the first reading, I propose to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u15	Thank you. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, factions that have not been registered for discussion are entitled to one minute for reasons of vote. From the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" of Leapin Kseniya Mikhailn. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u16	Thank you, Your Honor. Leapina Kseniya, group “For Ukraine! ” We support this bill, although I would like to point out that it does not have such global consequences as we have just been told. It's about very operational things, about access to relevant documentation. Today, restrictions on this access actually create barriers to the development of the building business, and it is where bribes or so - called services are taken. Today, it's very expensive, it turns out, to order completely standard documentation. This is absolutely not the right way to travel, in fact, then the same housing that we want to spend on our citizens and the restriction on access to, in fact, a business like building business. So I think this bill is very progressive, very timely, it needs to be supported, and I urge everyone to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u17	Thank you, Xenia Mikhailno. Replica, Yuri Sergiyovich Serbin
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u18	I want to answer to my esteemed colleague. I agree with the need for a comprehensive program to come out of the building crisis. But now the anti-crisis law has established this, let's say, base for this program. I agree with my distinguished colleague that this decision that Minfin represented requires correction because it really is. building complex, especially government contracts. And now for building standards. This is the basis on which you can create an application. Because you can't create a program if you don't have a base, and the base is building standards. So I ask you, if you may, to uphold this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u19	Dear Yuri Sergiyyovich, I am now looking into the hall and I see your head of the subcommittee, who was supposed to be the co-reporter, raising his hand. Does this mean that you've used the committee's time in spite of the committee's decision and introduced a session hall into a deception or some other situation in this case. Please turn on Vladimir Grigorovich Yatsubi's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to open a secret. This bill was prepared by the government of Viktor Fedorovich Janukovich. In principle, to eliminate situations that have arisen in connection with the Elite Centre. It's just sorting out the standards so that there's no disruption in construction. This bill was adopted in both the first and second readings of our ministry, and is now being submitted by the Second Ministry, and this bill is very much needed. I'm asking you to support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u21	Thank you, the discussion is over. I'm voting on the basis of the draft Building Standards Act, registration number 2587, please identify yourself. [[16:19:24]] For 262 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, Anatoly Stepanovich Grizzenko is asking me to convey his apologies to you that he has been delayed and has not arrived to report on his draft law. And if there are no objections to the national MPs present in the Hall, we can go back to the draft law that was to be reported. Is there no objection? If there is no objection, the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on housing, registration number 2193, reports National Deputy of Ukraine Gricenko Anatoli Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u22	Thank you, Your Honor Alexander Volodymyrovich. I am presenting a bill on behalf of the five national MPs who represent all five factions of Parliament: the Greek People's Union "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense", Greenewsky-Block Lithuania, Kuzmuk-Party of the Regions, Velizanski-BUT and Matviev- faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. If this law is passed, and today we ask it to be adopted only in the first reading, it will accelerate the movement of the housing line and primarily in the military groups. In addition, extra effort will be removed from these state departments, I would stress, government departments, different UCBs. ?? And so on, they do housing. The problem was that a large number of people in exiles and layoffs who, according to the law after 20 years of service, have the right to have a place to live, given that this built-up livestock is being reselled here, because they don't need it there. And we have proposed the key word “at the request of” a person to receive compensation in the form of the monetary value determined by the Cabinet in accordance with the DBN rules in a budget that is not even more than one dot. Please support five colleagues in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u23	Thank you, Anatoly Stepanovich. POB: Deputy Head of the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing and Regional Policy, Alexander Pavlovich Popov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u24	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. On May 14, 2008, our committee discussed the bill, as well as the comments and suggestions from the Chief Scientific and Experimental Directorate, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Committee on Budget Affairs and the Committee on National Security and Defence. I want to point out that all of these structures have responded positively to this bill, but they have made some observations and suggestions that can be defined as those that apply, well, first of all, this aims at strengthening standards for the purpose of using the funds that will be allocated for the implementation of such a bill. And the second question is the definition of the deadlines for the introduction of this law. So, given all these suggestions, our committee believes that the bill should be adopted as a basis in the first reading and furthered by taking into account the proposals that are there. We believe that it is on time today and will benefit military personnel who need to solve housing problems. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u25	Thank you, Alexander Pavlovich. Please, two for, two for. Ensign Alexei Vitaliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u26	The honourable chairman, the distinguished national MPs, is proposing to support this important bill because the bill proposes to establish that military personnel who have serviced for 20 years or more, well, and correspondingly, their family members are provided accommodations for permanent residence. So from this point of view, this solves the problem of housing for military personnel. This bill has an important social significance. In addition, even this, the rare case where there is an appeal by voters and in support of the bill is written by Antonina Ivanovna Makarenko, a resident from Zaporozhye, for example. So there's a proposal to accept this project as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u27	Thank you, Alexia Vitaliovich. The discussion is over. I am voting on the adoption of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on housing. [[Registration number 2193]] I'd like to make a statement. [[16:24:46]] For 377 Decision taken. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Election of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils and Rural, Rural, Urban Heads is being announced. [[on the simultaneous holding of elections]] Reporting by Ukrainian national deputy Podgorny Sergey Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u28	Dear chairman, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! The purpose of the bill is to bring Ukraine’s Constitution and the Constitution of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea into conformity with the Ukrainian Law on the Election of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils and Rural, Rural, Urban Heads, which define the order and timetable for the appointment of local elections. According to part five of article 76 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the term of office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is 5 years. Thus, the term of office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the sixth vocation, which was chosen at the election of Ukraine’s national deputies on September 30, 2007, expires at the end of 2012. According to article 141 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the term of office of the local councils for the fifth convocation of rural, rural, urban heads elected in the local elections on March 26, 2006, ends much earlier. According to the second part of article 22 of the Constitution of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the term of office of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, which was elected in the June 26, 2010, expires. It follows from this that the provisions of article 14, section 2, paragraph 2, of the Law on the Election of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils and Rural, Village, Urban Heads, which establishes that the successive election of members of the local councils, rural, rural and urban heads takes place at the same time as the election of the Ukrainian national deputies, conflict with the Constitution of Ukraine and the Constitution of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. The existence of this legal coalition creates problems in the practical application of this law. The bill proposes the removal of the said coalition by deleting the second part of the second part of article 14 of the Ukrainian Law on the Election of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils and Rural, Rural, Urban Heads. The adoption of the proposed draft law will ensure clear legal regulation of matters of order and time.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u29	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u30	which will help to avoid a legal collegiate decision by Parliament on the appointment of the next election. The implementation of the bill after its adoption of amendments to other laws does not require, nor does it require, additional expenditure from the State budget. According to the general conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, the first reading of the bill can be considered as a basis. Please support, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u31	Thank you. Have a seat. Correspondence from the committee, deputy head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, Yuri Bogdanovich Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u32	Dear colleagues! The current law on the election of members of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local councils and rural, village, city heads contains a rule in the 14th article that stresses that local elections should be held simultaneously with the next parliamentary election. I think that anyone who understands the situation can see that this rule can no longer be fulfilled in principle. The next election of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is due to take place in the 12th year. And if you don't give a god, they'll be off the hook later. Therefore, there is no way that another local election can take place at the same time as the parliamentary elections. In this regard, the drafters propose that the law be ruled out. The Committee supports this and requests the Supreme Council to vote in favour of the adoption of this law as a whole. Because there's really nothing to talk about in the second reading. So once again, I'm calling on the committee to support this bill as a whole as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u33	Thank you. Two for, two for, please. Miroshenko Yuri Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u34	Dear voters, dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. I think Yuri Bogdanovich has fully explained the appropriateness, I would say even the need to pass this law. I support the very fact that it needs to be adopted in general, because it is about harmonizing our legislation, not touching the debate that local councils and the Supreme Council should be divided so that the election campaign can be fully organized. Without even touching this discussion, by excluding the standard proposed by the drafters of the bill, the mandatory simultaneous conduct and elections to the Supreme Council, and the local elections, we are actually allowing us to avoid the problem that will arise when the elections are to take place in 2010 or later, in 2012, when the Supreme Council of Ukraine is reelected. So, dear colleagues, it's a perfectly normal law. He will allow us to avoid opposition and political ones, including us, and to bring our legislation to a sound mind. Therefore, I ask you to uphold this law and vote in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u35	Grigorovich Lilia Stepanovna. Ah, the word "Knyazevitch" please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u36	Dear colleagues, we are discussing the issue of the mandate of the relevant councils shortly after last session week. Remember, we had a fun, interesting discussion around the term of office of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. It seemed to me that in this law we would definitely not go back to the subject, because it was clear. In fact, the law is fairly technical, it regulates things that are obvious. We are already in Ukraine with such practices that at the same time we will hold local elections and the elections to the Supreme Council will not be for objective reasons. Although I'll tell you that after every election we've run together, all international organizations, starting with the OSCE and we've promised the voters that there would be no more such a vacchanal, because it's wrong and unreasonable. But please tell me, if last time we had a discussion on the Supreme Council, it was actually due to the fact that the scientific expertise in our findings said that we had a problem with the mandate of the main Republic of Crimea, that the five-year term could only extend to the Supreme Council of the Crimea of the next cadence, and then we agreed that we would accept that logic and all other councils -- rural, rural, urban, district, district, district -- because the Constitution's rule that changed the mandate for them came into effect after the Supreme Council came into effect, that is, on March 15, 2006, and the elections took place, and the elections took place on March 31st. [[May 15th]] So, on the recommendation of the scientific and expert management, we agreed that now all the local councils, starting with Crimea, are operating for four years and starting in 2010, five. In this conclusion, the very feedback of the scientific and expert management, they write: thus, the term of office of the local council elected in the 2006 elections will end in 2011. They're denying themselves. I would ask that these slaps never happen again, because the legal position that was first expressed was absolutely correct and suited to the moods of the vast majority of the session room. If we practice that logic now, we'll go so far. Thank you. And the law has to be maintained because it has a technical character.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u37	Thank you. Have a seat, please. The discussion is over. I am voting on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Elections of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils and Rural, Rural, Urban Heads, registration number 3627. Please vote. [[16:34:06]] For 391 Decision taken. In the committee’s decision and statements, it was suggested that the law should be adopted as a whole, since in this case it was only one norm. Is there no objection to being accepted as a whole? No one's denying it. I am voting on the adoption of the entire draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Election of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils and Rural, Rural, Urban Heads. Registration number 3627. Please vote. [[16:34:51]] For 408 Decision taken. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on the consultation on candidates for management positions in the Ukrainian law enforcement authorities]] Registration number 2681. Reportedly, the head of the committee’s subcommittee on law enforcement, Prokopchuk Yuri Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u38	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! Attempts to resolve issues at the legislative level regarding the implementation of the applicable laws of Ukraine in part of the appointment of directors and their representatives in law enforcement agencies have been made starting with the third call. Despite these bills, there are many authors here who have taken part in this, and including the undeniable need today to adopt this legislative act, I want to prove the position of the committee and as the author of this bill. The question is relevant because what is happening today is especially in the part where government structures are storming, when there are very many complaints coming from our voters from places of work assigned already, let's say, managers and district structures are meant to be, this is both the IMF, and the Public Prosecutor's Office, and the MCS, and customs services, the tax police. Therefore, the matter of settling the matter in a consultative way through a profile committee of appointments and thus not allow the principle of commotion, marriage, other family relationships, or simply the need for a political leader, as it were, to appear in appropriate power structures. Therefore, it is by amending the laws on the prosecution, on the police, on the tax service, where it is the appointment of directors and substitutes that will go through a professional committee, but not in the form of consent, but in the form of consultations, so as not to violate the Constitution of Ukraine, another act of law. Therefore, the position of the committee on this subject is to support the bill in the first reading and the second reading to proceed with approval.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u39	Will you be from the committee? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u40	Therefore, I think it is necessary to regulate legislatively the appointment and discharge of deputy directors of the Ukrainian law enforcement authorities and some other persons of these bodies, namely, in the part of the consultations on the candidates for these posts, with the Professional Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which will contribute to the real establishment of the principles of parliamentaryism in Ukraine, without violating the Constitution of Ukraine, the Law of Ukraine on the Cabinet of Ministers and other legislative acts governing the functioning of the law-enforcement system. In addition, the Supreme Council, as the only legislative body, has control functions. So we will also exercise parliamentary control, and of course this is another step towards civilian control, just as many are talking about, in the power structures. In fact, the proposals made by scientists, practitioners, scientists, experts conclude that similar actions can be done through consultations on committee candidatures that are not in conflict with valid laws. And, of course, we have examples where in the Anti-Corruption Committee, in fact, the directors of the Anti-Corruption Authority are also going through these consultations. So we're going to bring everything into one state, so to speak, completely, all of the staff assignments or, as they say, the impossibility or interference, not interference, but, rather, agreement and other things, as it were, through a profile committee. I think the main thing is that this is going to be a system of human resources policy, and the law enforcement agencies, when we have one minister, come and take off. As the film says, “Take off your boots or roll over your own house. ” So we've got a lot of experts just getting fired and then, they say, at the coming of another minister, it starts again the same way. So the requests, the honourable colleagues, to support this bill in the first reading, and I think, in proper work, we can also accept it as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u41	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Two in, two in, two in. Have a seat, please. Sulkovsky Pavel Gnatovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u42	You know, honourable colleagues, you know, this adoption of a lot of draft regulations that we've been taking in the Supreme Council lately. To a greater extent, the situation shows that these laws and regulations are not in favor of Ukraine. And so I wanted to talk to the author about some of the questions. Because here in the hall, in fact, right now many deputies are thinking, some are "for", and others are "against". Maybe it would be in Ukraine's favor, but for example, I'd like to know from Yuri Volodymyrovich. I don't know how, in this scenario, the Supreme Council voted in favour of a reduced procedure and didn't ask questions. So for me personally, I'd like to know, well, what are these consultations going to do? Maybe they will, but if, for example, such a bill is adopted, I am interested in what to do. Whether it is in the future, then it will be on the profile committee of the consultation, or whether it will already come in and conduct a so - called illustration of the officials. Because today, virtually all state structures are formed according to political vision, as well as the misery in Ukraine. Today, the teacher may also be in the prosecutor's office, which is neither “be” nor “me”, and in the field service can a worker, an expert in the Security Service, continue to work. Why Ukraine is poor. So I would still like the author to provide an explanation in this, or, in fact, how this bill will have the right to exist and what it will bring to Ukraine. Clearly, the author wants to benefit Ukraine. But these discussions, for example, take place in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u43	Bobil's Alexander Fadiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u44	Dear Chief, distinguished colleagues! As a general of the police, I'd like to make some suggestions. He has to appoint the heads of the police and the BSS, and he has to appoint a minister. He is given the right, and we, colleagues, appoint a minister of internal affairs and ministers to administer law enforcement. So it is his right and he must appoint a person who is an expert. If we reconcile here, it will be a political decision that can be. There's no match in that party, there's no match in that party, but this man is an expert. So I'd like to ask you to review this bill, to review it. And he should appoint a minister who works with a man. He's got work to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u45	Pisarenko Valeriy Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u46	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Well, in general, given the logic of what we have to follow in law enforcement, I'm taking notes that have given scientific expertise, and I want to remind you that it's not the last one. Not the first, not the last, probably the bill that our colleagues are passing today. And I, by the way, co-authored one of those bills where the supervisory functions of the Supreme Council are defined in the agreement plan or in the consultation of individual candidates. Of course, on the one hand, if such functions were to work, the Supreme Council would probably not allow the appearance today, for example, as deputy director of the Ukrainian Security Service, the official billionaire, the manager of the Inter Channel, owner of Valery Horoshkovsky's steam plant, who is still a business partner of Rosukrenerego, today, thanks to the resources of the Ukrainian Security Service, is fighting against Ukraine itself. Of course, the Supreme Council would never let that happen. But let us see if we can bring about chaos when each committee takes up the task of agreeing to the respective positions of directors. Of course, each committee can take on such a function and agree on the entire executive branch. Is it good for the Supreme Council? Maybe. Is it good for the country as a whole? I don't think so. So in general, in support of the ideas of improving legislation and norm-setting in Ukraine, I think that certain moments of this bill can be taken into account, but for the second reading, if we now decide to vote, it needs to be carefully worked out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u47	Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u48	Dear colleagues, I would like to address the heads of our committees first. I ask you to take an example from the Committee on Law Enforcement and prepare a bill for each of you to control your ministries and offices. So that no management library could be assigned to a culture house without your knowledge. You know, it's a lobbyist law that can't be higher. The competition began with the constitutional guarantor, who would be more vulnerable to illegal rights. The president issues laws on the verge of the Constitution that he wants to control everyone and everything, and a professional committee that deals with the police, the prosecutor's office and the tax administration also wants to control everyone and everything. I'm sorry, Your Honor, but there's almost everyone there with a higher legal education, don't you know the rules of the Constitution? You have not read 85 articles of the Constitution, where a clear, exclusive list is assigned by the Supreme Council. You are no longer aware of the Supreme Council Committees Act, which specifically states what rights and opportunities and responsibilities are on the Supreme Council Committee, that it can make decisions and give advice and consent, recommending the appointment of those officials appointed by the Supreme Council. And the 85 articles of the Constitution that I have mentioned describe what officials are like. If we're going to assign district troopers, because we're going to get there soon, we're going to have a lot of right, but very little responsibility. Let us be wiser when you vote or vote in favour of the Minister of Internal Affairs when we vote in favour of the Cabinet of Ministers who appoints the tax administration when we give consent to the President's appointment as Attorney General, and this law contradicts the Constitution and cannot be voted in favour of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u49	On the basis of the vote by the faction “Litwin’s Block” Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u50	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, the experience of recent years in Ukraine has proved and claims that politicized law enforcement is a disaster. That objectivity and professionalism cannot be expected from politicized law enforcement agencies. I realize that the subject of the legislative initiative has changed his position by agreeing to a consultation on a profile committee. But then I have a question, and if the candidate doesn't go through this consultation, if he's denied and denied the candidate, then what will happen? Evidently, then, he is unable to hold a position of office. And it's not a problem for the committee then, because the committee, apart from being profiled, is a meeting of representatives of various political forces. So in order not to give any further opportunity to politicize law enforcement, I don't think I can.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u51	Thank you, Oleg Alexanderovich. The discussion is over. There is no closing word for a reduced procedure, and I ask you to remember that when you vote for a reduced procedure. I would like to vote on the adoption in the first reading of the Draft Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian Laws on Consultation on Candidates for Leadership in Ukrainian Law Enforcement Authorities, registration number 2681. I'd like to make a statement. [[16:50:16]] For-142 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. The draft Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislation on migration, registration number 2232, is being announced.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u52	Honourable national MPs, among the problems that have emerged in Ukraine in recent years, one of the most difficult remains the problem of increasing the extent of illegal migration. Ukraine now has 4 seats per number of international migrants. Illegal migration today poses a major threat to Ukraine’s national security. According to IMF statistics, over 15,000 crimes have been committed in the past five years by citizens of other nations, mostly related to property and drugs. The cost of retaining goods that illegal migrants try to transport across borders is hundreds of millions of dollars each year. Clearly, the legal framework available in Ukraine is unable to cover a vast range of practical issues in the area of combating illegal migration. Moreover, many experts believe that it remains more open and liberal to migrants than other SND countries, not to mention European Union states. Last year's Supreme Council of Ukraine's Readmission Agreement is making our country's already miserable situation worse on illegal migration. We now owe it to all illegal immigrants from European countries, and we cannot send them back. In the face of these disturbing circumstances, I propose to your attention a bill aimed at creating the right legal framework for combating illegal migration. First of all, I consider it necessary to amend the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Status of Foreigners and Persons Without Citizenship. It would be appropriate to take such administrative action as stopping foreigners and stateless persons from the state border of Ukraine, which could result in their immediate return to the country from which they came or to another country of previous residence. In such a case, the cost of return is borne by another State, a foreign one.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u53	Finish up, please, Grigori Yudkomovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u54	or a person without citizenship. Given that there is very little time, I would like to say, honourable national MPs, that this is a very relevant issue, and without making any changes to Ukraine's current legislation today has this big problem. And this problem, unfortunately, has an increasing impact on our country. So I ask who read the bill to support this bill in the first reading. As to the observations made by the Legal Office and some of my colleagues have expressed themselves, I agree that those comments should be taken into account when considering the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u55	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Correspondence from the committee of Gnatkevich Yuri Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u56	Dear colleagues, the Grigory Smituch bill was viewed on our committee as the main one. The drafter proposes to amend three laws of Ukraine. First of all, on the legal status of foreigners and stateless persons, who are making demands on foreigners crossing the state border worse. At the same time, it is proposed that the Criminal Code of Ukraine be supplemented by an article that reinforces criminal responsibility for organizing and promoting the illegal movement of persons across the state’s border. In addition, the five articles of the Code on Administrative Offences, which reinforce the responsibility of foreigners for violating Ukrainian regulations and the responsibility of natural and legal persons for promoting illegal migration, are being amended. In short, all the novels proposed by the author reinforce the administrative and criminal responsibility of people in the context of migration policy and practice. The sanctions provided for by the bill, the size of fines, the validity of the grounds for their imposition, may be discussed, but the violation of the bill must be resolved at last, as the times of liberal migration policy for Ukraine are passing. And thank God, I would like to express the idea that there is such a boat theory. If the boat is flowing, it is necessary not to drain the water but to spank the hole. Our hole is a large eastern and northern border that stretches thousands of miles. And if it's a hole, not a border, I remember the times of the Soviet Union, when it was KGB, the will was responsible for migration policy as a state security policy, and when the border forces were just subordinated to the State Security Committee and when the word "Land on the Castle" was used. Until the border is not on the castle, but on the laws. All groups of illegal migrants will enter Ukraine and we will have a problem with this all the time.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u57	Yuri Vasilovich, finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u58	Where, then, should we begin, fellow believers? We have several bills on the committee that deal with migration problems, theories and practices. And this is one of the first ones, and we suggest that you look at it and accept it on the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u59	Thank you. Please sign up for the discussion. Koleschenko Vadim Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u60	Dear colleagues, we have a very interesting novelty, a very interesting bill. I would like to assess from the previous speaker's point of view that in a passing boat, we need to patch holes rather than drain water. I totally agree with him. Because, in addition to migration policy issues, Ukraine is becoming a European destination in general. Nuclear waste — Ukraine, genomically modified products — Ukraine, draining our fertile soils — Ukraine, taking the best intellectual potential — from Ukraine. If we are a great, powerful Power, which is a thousand years old, we should think about it, and for whom is it a Power? For our citizens, for our children or for future aliens who do not wish to glorify and enrich our Power? That is why we must take a very strict position on migration policy. The question of visa-free entry could also be brought back here. We're open to everyone. We are suffering enormous losses, but Europe is turning us into the wrong place that it gives us for free. That is why I support the bill proposed by the people's MP, Smythuch. This is probably one of the first patriots to consider not just walking in the embroidery and singing in Ukrainian, but protecting the law not only his country but also the future. And those officials who are now in Ukraine in the form of liberalization of our legislation must be very hard and specifically protected by the interests of their own State, their own people and our children. I propose to adopt this law as a basis, because it certainly has some contradictions. But we have to start taking the first step. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u61	Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u62	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues! I think the author of the legislative initiative had the full right to take such an initiative. Because we can insult our country, our country, say it's a dump, it's something else. I think it's not nice to make people's favorites. Obviously, we need to act rather than speak. And the situation today is that, in fact, in a situation of ratification by Ukraine of the readmission agreement with the countries of the European Union and the absence of a readmission agreement with Belarus and the Russian Federation, through which transit takes place in Ukraine with a desire to move to Western Europe or part even with a desire to settle in Ukraine, this process, which, by the way, is growing in its numbers of countries, especially East, South East and South Asia. I would not want us to drive our rage against these people, realizing that they too are not going out of a good life, realizing that many of them, let us say so, are leaving economic and political, even physical, because they are victims of aggression, victims of torture sometimes and so forth. But in this case, I think we really have to think about what's going on in Ukraine. Today jobs are shrinking, today we have to give Ukrainian citizens jobs first of all. And finally, I want to say that there is a fragmented solution to the question. And in the first reading, we have to vote for it. But finally, in Ukraine, there must be a national migration service that would coordinate all these problems, not those problems that were a wasteland.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u63	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u64	And not these problems -- migration problems, first of all, were organized illegally in some part of the U.S.S.A., some part of the city's population, some part of the U.S.S.A., some part of the U.S.S.S.A., some part of the U.S.S.S.A., etc. The government’s migration service in Ukraine is expected to take place. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u65	School of Andriy Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u66	The honourable chairman, the distinguished national deputies, of course, there was a lot of talk here about an allegory of a boat that did not need to make holes, not to drain water, but to make holes. But there's a nuance, you know, when there's too much water in there, make those holes or don't make any money, it could still sink. And we need to figure out where the boat is going. It's about allegories. When it comes to a specific bill, I fully agree with the previous one by speaking out, which he said did not solve the problem, which is most important. We're trying to spell out the problem, to declare the authorship of trying to solve the problem, but not to solve it, that's what's most important. So I don't see the point of voting in the first reading, and then in the second reading, I don't see the point of creating better legislation. A quality and full product should be offered immediately. I think that most of us are already tired of voting for the "good" laws that will have to be voted on tomorrow or voting in the first reading, returning to its consideration after so long that we have forgotten which bill we have voted on. So I agree, the idea of creating a state migration service is much more stringent, more clear and clear, and it will solve this problem, not now to propose amendments to 15 bills, 15 existing bills, I apologize, laws. It's unthinkable for a long time. And I fully agree with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and State Administration's comments, we're not solving the problem, we're sounding it. Well, it sounded like she didn't disappear. This issue will be resolved only when appropriate agreements are made, as has already been said, with Russia, Belarus, but also with China, and Vietnam. Let's look truth in the eye, because as long as it's not done, whatever hard measures we apply, nothing will change. So I think we should offer quality products. This bill does not deserve to be adopted in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u67	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u68	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank the national MP, Smithuh, for having made an attempt to address these issues in a comprehensive manner. Just because he suggested that many legislative acts should be amended shows the complexity of the approach. Let's think about it, just last year, it's only been detained by border guards for 31,000. 783 men - almost 32,000. And the undetained? And don't we know you? Today, Mr. Tertweichenko was speaking here, and for his knowledge, his service has a schedule on which customs, on which area of border control of how many people will be missed. But doesn't anyone know it from law enforcement?Oh, my God! Don't they know that the police can't bring those people out today?Oh, my God! This law must be passed, even though it has numerous shortcomings. There are far more than our Chief Expert Office has written in its conclusion. They are also affected by the fact that administrative fines are higher than the fines provided for in the Criminal Code. Basically basic fines. I mean 53 articles of the Criminal Code, a general article of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. That's why. This can be fixed. The main thing is that Parliament has to show political will in that it can't continue to live like this, it has to show an evaluation because it's already done when the door is opened and everyone gets in. So I'm asking you to do this, let's vote, let's not pay attention to the fact that it wasn't those views that the bill was introduced by the man, but I'm going to support the bill in order to bring about an order in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u69	The discussion is over. I am voting on the adoption of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on migration. Registration number 2232. Please vote. [[17:05:59]] For-103 The decision is not taken. [[B in m in s a l in]] The proposal of the Ukrainian National Deputies is to have this bill re-readed. I am voting for re-reading the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on migration. Registration number 2232. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:06:39]] For 382 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u70	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Meetings of the Conciliation Council were concluded. We discussed eight issues that are very important. I'm sure the faction leaders will lead our positions, which were agreed upon at the council meeting, to your knowledge. We have also agreed that at 1300 hours we will hold a round table in the Supreme Council of Ukraine with the invitation of the President, the Prime Minister and the leaders of the MP factions to talk about how we will organize our public work further. Also, dear colleagues, we agreed that we would now consider the draft Order on the Liberation of Judges. This question is very important in view of the amount of circumstances that I have asked the factions to inform their colleagues. This is a project called Decision 4197. We had this project under consideration on Thursday, but circumstances require that we consider this issue now, namely, the release of judges in connection with the application for resignation. Is there any objection to putting us to the vote? You don't? I'm voting on the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Ordinance on the release of judges, registration number 4197. Please vote. [[17:08:59]] For 397 Decision taken. What? We couldn't vote one, it wouldn't make sense. That's how we all voted. What do you want to report? All of us, we voted. [[B in m in s a l in]] The question is not included in the agenda. We've made draft decisions, yes. No, it's not. We're in. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, it's all right here. Because as a member of the committee, Vadim Koleschenko was to report, and since we discussed the issue on the Conciliation Council, we did not have any differences. That's why we voted and adopted the draft decree. This question is not subject to inclusion in the order of the day. Please, Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u71	Sobolje, "Timoshenko's Yulia Block." Volodymyr Mikhailovich, please, at least name the number of the decree voted. It is desirable to list the names of these judges. Because we just voted for the release. Then, so that no procedural questions arise, who directly, what is the number of the decree? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u72	I'm calling the ruling number again. I've announced, this is Decree 4197. As for the names, I will read them: in connection with the application for resignation to be released from the judges’ offices: the Military Court of Appeal of the Central Region of Bredelov Aleksandra Mikolayovich; City of Žmerin, District Court of the Viennese Region of Shahin, Petar Ivanovich; the local Mogilov-Podil Regional Court of the Viennese Region of Nikolayanek Igor Hennadiyovich; the local Débaltsev city court of the Donetsk district of Hončarenko Mikol Yegorovich; the local Shakhtar District Court of the Donetsk Region of Butov Mikolaiovich; the local Kirov Regional Court of Donetsk Levado Anatolia Mikolaiovich; the local Frunziov District Court of the Odessa Region of Teslauk Viktor Mikitovic; the local Pyratitin district court of the district of Poltava district of Krugljak Vassil Grigorovitch. This is the Order again, 4197. The committee's decision on this matter is. Dear colleagues, we also agreed that we would return. Well, they found that consensus. May I have your attention, please, and please be ready to consider the matter. Let's go back to the issue of the inclusion in the agenda of the Act on Amendments to the Act on Excise Rates. “ Is it filming today? [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, you could say that right away. Dear colleagues, tomorrow's the day. We're working on it. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Legal Persons and Business Persons is being announced for consideration. [[on the right to engage in entrepreneurial activities without an identification number]] Once again, registration number 2715, reporter, Ukrainian national deputy, Vadim Vasilovich Kolesnichenko, will be co-reported by Natalia Kraljevska. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u73	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Legal Persons and Natural Persons, which is now being submitted, called upon to solve the issue of the conflict of Ukrainian legislation and to ensure the right of believing citizens to engage in entrepreneurial activities without an identification code. During the last year, hundreds of letters were sent to my address as co-chairs of the parliamentary interfractional association to support the Canonic Orthodox Church to resolve the problem of identity code in the business sphere. Articles 24 of the Constitution of Ukraine and 4 of the Ukrainian Act on Freedom of Conscience and Religious Organizations guarantee equality of citizens regardless of their religious beliefs. That is why, in accordance with the Ukrainian Act on the Register of Individuals of Taxpayers and Other Compulsory Payments, persons who, because of their religious or other beliefs, refuse to accept the identification code and officially report it to the relevant public authorities, are marked as having the right to make any payment without an identification number. But a modern - day person may be the founder of a natural person without the code and cannot choose or be appointed to the governing body of a legal person. Thus, the right of a natural person to make payments without a code and to engage in entrepreneurial activities as a natural person is legally established. That's why we have to use this coalition. And so a bill aimed at restoring the equality of citizens in the economic sphere, independent of religious beliefs, by granting rights to persons who, because of their religious or other beliefs, refuse to accept an identification number, have officially announced that they have the opportunity to be the founders of legal persons and be, choose or appoint a legal person. This bill, supported by a profile committee, is proposed.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u74	Dear colleagues, the report is complete. Natalia Juryovna Královska, head of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u75	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! The Committee on Industrial, Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, at its meeting on 1 October 2008, considered a draft law on the amendment of the Law on State Registration of Legal Persons and Business Persons on the right to conduct business without an identification number. Registration No. 2715, submitted by the People's Deputy Koleznichenko. The Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in its conclusion to the bill of 30 September 2008, supports its adoption as a basis. The members of the committee involved and mentioned adopted a draft law on the amendment of the Law on State Registration of Legal Persons and Business Persons on the right to engage in business without an identification number, registration number 2715, to be submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and to propose to adopt it as a basis. Although we understand that the norm is complex enough and controversial enough. On the one hand, we must protect the rights of persons who, in their religious beliefs, have refused to accept an identification number, on the other hand, we can understand that this rule today has a chance to blow up tax records, which is also unacceptable during the crisis. Therefore, we request that the hall be defined. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u76	Dear colleagues, please sign up for the discussion. On the board is the name of the national MPs, please show. Catherine Samuel, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u77	The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine will vote in favour of the bill, but only in the first reading. I want to remind everyone here that it was the people's deputies of our faction who initiated the adoption of the basic bill, but we didn't think there would be a question about entrepreneurial activity. Indeed, many questions will arise. I'm here to tell my colleague, the drafter of the bill, that you won't understand Ivanov, she's fine, you're sick. You fought this bill all the time. You carried it five times, taxed it on the Supreme Council of Ukraine to destroy and invalidate this standard for believers, for those who belong to a religious union. You've finally become aware, and it's very good that this happened seven years after the adoption of the basic bill. Once again, we support him. But it should be accepted only in the first reading, because we need to create a working group, reconcile it with the tax administration, the government tax administration, because we can do a lot of bad things. So we're going to make the whole country believing or Orthodox or Greek-Catholic, or these sects that Chernewsky and his like have procreated all over Ukraine, you have to be very careful, writing the bill in such an editorial way, and we welcome our colleagues with insight.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u78	National Deputy Karpuk, faction of "Our Ukraine People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u79	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense". Please hand over Kseniya Lupini.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u80	Please, Xenia Leapina's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u81	Thank you. Xenia Lapina, group “For Ukraine”. I want to pay attention, fellow believers, that although we certainly have to protect the rights of believers and members of religious communities, in Ukraine there are far more believers than people who today refuse to receive an identification code. And it's not a matter of creating loopholes in legislation, in fact, that's the kind of hole that we're going to have if we adopt this law, because it's not about the right of a natural person, it's actually about the rights of a legal person, we're just going to lose control of revenue, and we're going to lose control of even the income of legal persons, and for, we're not going to know who's controlling those or other important legal persons, and we're not going to be able to let that happen. There's a proposal, another way to solve this issue, as it is resolved in Europe, we have to give up the identity code of the person and move on to the document number, which in no way offends the rights of believers. In this way, we will protect the rights of believers throughout Ukraine, not just a small group of individuals who today feel this problem sharply, reject the identification number. So we just have to move on to another way to solve the identification code problem. This is the way we would support it. This law cannot be upheld.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u82	Andrew Schlell, Timoshenko's Yulia Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u83	Well, a minute. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u84	Mr. President, I believe that the issue of this bill, which is created by this bill, can indeed be discussed here, but once again we must point out that this bill does not solve this problem again. It's the same thing. As for the previous bill. So it sounds, voters hear, but I think they'll understand. And we understand that this is not going to work out. Indeed, if a person does not want to receive an identification code but wants to work hard at entrepreneurship, there is an entirely valid observation as to whether or not he or she can give up entrepreneurship if the person refuses the identification code. That's perfectly logical. So when a refusal goes in an individual order, when a person thinks it's, I don't know, the number of the devil or some other label. By the way, the whole world has always thought that money is so you know the devil's tool. So, I think I'm suggesting that, more faithfully, we give up money, we take it, we give it up, we give it up. It wouldn't be a bad step either. And here in the Supreme Council, we would have passed a law on the liquidation of finance, the liquidation of the financial system, because it might offend someone. It could actually be. Therefore, we have no right to adopt such an approach at all. And really there were so many attempts and so much the same was denied by the Supreme Council and, I think, they were absolutely motivated. If there's an individual problem. If you think it's very bad to get an identification code, please, there's a statement. A person refuses and communicates with the Ukrainian financial system in another way. But in doing so, it does not engage in entrepreneurial activities or create tax evasion. So I don't think this bill needs to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u85	Dear colleagues, all who signed up, but at the same time, the faction of the Party of Regions did not speak and insist. One minute, please, Hanna Herman's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u86	It's very strange to hear from so-called Democrats such a humiliating statement about human rights. It's a definite violation of the human right to assign her an ID number. We have the right to take this number or not to take it. We need to get rid of purely Soviet practice. That man exists for the state, not for the nation of man. Today, the State must exist for man. And it's a problem for the state to calculate taxes. Nor should human rights be subordinated to national tax laws. We should respect people and not say that they are a bunch of believers. There's no pile. Even if one person's rights are violated, this should be a problem for the whole Parliament. We are here to defend the rights of every human being and every citizen of Ukraine in particular. That's why we insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u87	Give me a chance to finish. Please complete your opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u88	So the Party of Regions has always stood up and advocated the right of people to choose, assign them an identification number or not, and whether they have the right to entrepreneurial activity or not. We need to make sure that the person in our society lives more freely and better, not the other way around. And I would like our colleagues, the so-called Democrats, to finally understand the true essence of democracy.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u89	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like your attention, please. Dear colleagues, an idea. I'll figure it out so they don't blame you. It's basically the right idea. If the Supreme Council of Ukraine supports this, it is necessary to determine how to establish religious beliefs and other beliefs when preparing for the second reading, but this is already in the process of further reading. Dear colleagues, please, let me now put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt as a basis for the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Legal Persons and Personal Entrepreneurs. [[on the right to engage in entrepreneurial activities without an identification number]] [[Registration number 2715]] Please vote. Please vote. [[17:26:29]] For-170. The decision is not taken. The factions, please. May I have your attention, please? Region Party – 145, "Timoshenko Yulia Block" – 0, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" – 1, Communist faction – 23, "Litvina Block" – 1. The decision is not taken. Maybe one more time? What do you think? Well, I'll do it again first. If not, then it will be rejected. Let's go through with it. Dear colleagues, I'm voting on sending the bill, registration number 2715, to read again. Now we're going to vote. May I have your attention, please? [[17:27:22]] For 197 The decision is not taken. The law is rejected. The factions, please. The faction of the Party of the Regions – 165, "Block of Timoshenko" – 0, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" – 4, Communist faction – 27, "Block of Lithuania" – 1. Let's move on. Dear colleagues! We were about to consider with you a bill amending the Ukrainian Insurance Act. [[new editor]] The committee addressed a letter requesting that the review be suspended in relation to the need for its work, taking into account the comments made by the Scientific and Scientific Administrations. What? Against filming? Well, let's do it this way, dear fellows. Now we will not consider it, and then we will consult on the advisory boards. Is there no objection? Thank you. A draft Law on Legalization of the Income of Legal and Natural Persons, registration number 1289, is being announced for consideration. The rapporteur is the national deputy of Ukraine, Grigory Evdokovic Smythuch. Vice - Chief of Finance and Banking Committee Vladislav Valentinovich Lukyanov will be the focal point.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u90	Dear National Deputies! The need for the bill that I'm putting into your consideration is extremely great. Today, as Ukraine’s economic crisis worsens, it is vital to move huge amounts of money out of the shadows that have emerged in the context of the imperfect legislation of the transition period and to create conditions for its legal and effective use for the benefit of society. In this regard, I note that it is not legalization of the shadow revenues associated with serious crimes related to the foundations of Ukraine’s national security, life, health, the person’s will, peace and security of mankind, international law, and the fields of drug trafficking. The size of the shadow sector in our country is well known. Some experts estimate that between 30 and 50 percent of gross domestic product. So the effect of its legalization will undoubtedly be tangible. In international practice, over the past 10 years, so-called amnesty capital has been held not only in some countries with economies in transition but also in countries of the European Union, and has produced tangible positive results. Thus, the bill clearly, clearly and in detail sets out key points such as the object and subject of legalization, short - term legalization, legalization documents, and symbolic fees, State guarantees and criminal liability for violations. The short term is one year and the one-time nature of implementation will allow us not to stretch this process indefinitely, to quickly implement economic, financial resources and to stop the flow into the shadow of the new illegal capital. Since legalization takes place once, all funds illegally held after the adoption of this law will receive an appropriate legal assessment. Free legalization caused the most complaints. Especially.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u91	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u92	Ladies and gentlemen, given that the essence of the bill is very large, I cannot explain in two minutes, I think that you have been able to get acquainted with this bill, I urge you, given the importance of this bill, and that it will have a great positive effect on the economy of Ukraine, to carry out this amnesty for those who have earned these funds, and they are legally working for the benefit of our state. All the countries in the transition period, they used these measures. I think it's a time for the state to make that decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u93	Thank you, Gregory Yudkomovich. Please, committee, committee position. Lukyanov Vladislav Valentinović.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u94	Honourable Vladimir Mihajlovich, honourable colleagues of the National MPs, at the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Finance and Banking, a bill on the legalization of the earnings of legal and natural persons, which was tabled in exchange for the national deputy of Ukraine, Smituh. [[Registration 1289 from 28.05.2008]] The bill was repeatedly discussed at a committee meeting at which the author was invited to draft a bill to replace a high criminal responsibility with a substantially increased fine, which should be imposed on the persons concerned in court. Given the size of the financial and economic situation in Ukraine, we believe that it is now appropriate to adopt this bill, and this will help reduce the toning of the economy in the country and increase the budget. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Affairs, letter 0414/7 878 of June 5, 2008 has decided that the bill is such that it has an impact on the revenue portion of the State and local budgets and on the expenditure portion of the State budget and can be adopted in accordance with article 27, part 3, of the Ukrainian Budget Code, taking into account the following. Him. The rules of this law may enter into force no later than 1 January 2010. On the basis of the above, the Committee recommends that the Supreme Council adopt the draft law as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u95	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues, please sign up to express your position on this bill. National Deputy Vizevski, faction "Our Ukrainian People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u96	Arjovitin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u97	Arjovitin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u98	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to ask you to reject this bill at all or at least send it to. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. And why? First of all, this bill does not include international experience at all. Indeed, many countries have undergone this procedure, there is experience. We can especially study Kazakhstan’s experience, which is similar to ours, and we will not invent the bicycle that is foretold here. Next. This bill does not take into account our Ukrainian features at all. What about those incomes that have been wronged and may be considered a crime under article 207, 208, 209, 212 of the Criminal Code, up to 30 percent of such income. Please tell me if you considered the Ukrainian mentality when it was also estimated that up to 30 percent of the income was obtained by officials or legalized. What's more, this bill offers us the ideology of the amnesty bill, and we're actually talking about legalization. These are two very different ideologies. If we are talking about this hidden amnesty, we should begin with 92 articles of the Constitution, article 3 of the Criminal Code, and continue to go to a separate law on amnesty, not legalization. Next. Please tell me, why should Minnesota consider the legalization of Ukraine at all? I don't think that's appropriate. Pay. This bill provides that the legalization process should pay just about 225 dollars. The Ministry of Economics has calculated that the state will get 1 million dollars, and the campaign will cost 15 million dollars. If in other countries, for example, FRN paid between 25 and 35 percent, Belgium paid 9 percent. These people who took out the capital, they caused the country a problem, it was an economic problem for our country, we have to pay for it. That's true in all countries. That's why I think so. I don't want to go any further, because there are many things that aren't even meant for this ideology. By the way, the Ministry of Finance is against it. Read the conclusions of our Chief Executive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u99	Thank you. National MP Mojchan, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u100	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, I am in solidarity with my newly speaking colleague in the most important parts. We're actually amnesty everything that went on over time, like the period of the robbery of Ukraine and it was very intense. This means that, with good intentions to get those capitals out of the shadows outside Ukraine or within Ukraine, we're actually amnesty. And never in life will the entire national array ever know how much money has been stolen and what parts will only be legalized. In my view, by reference to practice in Kazakhstan, they are inappropriate. Because we know that there's an oligarchic group that's exercising all the control of power today, it's also the parliament of Kazakhstan, and everything else, it's one clan that's actually allowed for legalization, but it's limited it for 30 days. I don't see the limitations that have to be laid down here. And most importantly, I want to say, the reference to European experience in Germany, for example, whether in Belgium, and this has happened recently, is not the same as in Ukraine. Because if we're talking about Belgium, it's totally legitimate capital. To some extent, it was caused only by adversarial plots being hidden outside Belgium or France. If we talk about Ukraine, about the area of social robbery, we'll just do one thing, legalize and say, "You did the right thing, keep doing it." So I'm definitely against the option that we're offered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u101	Thank you. Dear colleagues, all who sign up for the performance. The faction of the regions did not take advantage of its right. One minute, please, Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u102	Dear colleagues! I'd like to address the deputies of the third to fourth vocation. Remember, in this session room, we've tried to legalize shadow revenues on a number of occasions. Why? But because you have to answer the question: There will be no amnesty, and then what? Shadow revenue will come out, they'll run abroad. And that's all. Capital is always looking where it's comfortable, where it's better to work. The first crisis lessons you and I have just learned in Ukraine say that the rise in tax pressure, which is being accompanied by the economy in 2008-2009, can only lead to one thing: either stagnation in production, or rising prices, or tinning. Childhood. Pension reform in 2005 has been halted. Childhooding, the introduction of state-owned social-medical insurance to get money out of the shadows, was also stopped. So we should not hide our heads in the sand, but rather take legislative measures that would allow them to detiny their incomes to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u103	Give me a chance to finish. Finish up, Jaroslav Mikhajlovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u104	Dear colleagues, I beg of you without emotion. Think about what this is about. Either this money, or this money will be like an investment working for our economy in Ukraine, or they'll come out of here quietly as the shadow goes out with the sun. I propose to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u105	Thank you. Dear colleagues, discussion of the draft law, registration number 1289, “The legalization of the income of legal and natural persons” has been completed. The proposal and the conclusion of the committee. Take it as a base. I am voting on a proposal by the adoption committee based on the draft Law on Legalization of the Income of Legal and Physical Persons. Please vote. [[17:41:23]] For-182 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Party of Regions - 154, Block of Timoshenko - 0, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" - 1, Communist faction - 26, Block of Lithuania - 1. Dear colleagues, the proposal was, which is contained in the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Directorate, that you should send a draft for re-reading, that is, for re-reading. We do not have to make that offer. At the same time, I will put to the vote a motion for re-reading draft law 1289 on the legalization of the earnings of legal and natural persons. Please vote. [[17:42:26]] For 326 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we have two more questions to consider according to the schedule for today. So, with your permission, I propose in this way. Continue for 15 minutes the evening session. If we finish the discussion early, then we will conclude our plenary session today. Huh? Then “different”, then let us move on to “different”. Dear colleagues, the draft Decree on the implementation of a moratorium on the liquidation, alienation, retraining of health facilities, registration number 3693 is being announced. [[children’s, professional, etc.]] Reporter Klimenko Alexander Ivanovich, co-reporter of the Committee on Health Care, Grigorovich Lilia Stepanovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u106	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters of Ukraine! I would not now want to save all our time precious to our voters and to our tax payers, which is a terrible situation today in our environment, which applies primarily to the demographic situation. I am very concerned as a resident of the Donetsk region in which the health facilities are now located, where today there are those resort areas that we have cared so much about and for which money we have been directed to be restored and restored today, both by child health and by profiling and by other institutions. And on the contrary, my very short draft of the Decree provides for, first of all, a moratorium on alienation and re-profile and banning the re-training of any child health care facility, i.e. children's facilities, reducing their boundaries, land areas, and re-inventing them. It also provides for the Government to draft a bill so that we can adopt it and discuss it at a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I would also like to add that for two years we have not built any children’s health facilities in our country. Instead, as far as capital repairs are concerned, only 87 children's facilities were involved in capital repairs. We realize that today’s economic situation is not conducive, but if we are to care for, first and foremost, the health of the nation, the intelligence of our nation, and the health of our citizens, we need to adopt this law as a safeguard and as a moratorium until our economy is healed. Thank you very much, and please support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u107	The report invites the Secretary of the Health Committee, Lilia Stepanovna Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u108	Lilia Grigorovich, Health Committee Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The committee has carefully considered the draft decree and the motivation for making such a decision and fully agrees with the subject of the legislative initiative. Of course, the real solution to problems is the law, but the decision is already in the moratorium on, in fact, destroying what is left. The fact that no new sanatorium has really been built in recent years. At the same time, I regret to report that the United Nations, particularly at the last meeting in Geneva in the group on this issue, has determined that, unfortunately, there has been an increase in corruption in Ukraine, yes, my dears, I say both the democratic coalition and the courageous opposition, which shows that, unfortunately, the embezzlement, the theft of property, including the one that provides our childhood with little space and room. The same situation was with kindergartens, when they were essentially torn apart, pushed apart, and here I want to comfort my colleague Klimenka, there are some positive seeds. Nevertheless, with the start of the President's payout program, for the first time in the birth of a child, there was a small breakthrough, and we have this catastrophic birth curve of 3 percent up in the last year and this trend is maintained. Because of this, respected friends, the committee supports the adoption of a moratorium and alienation decree, and the change, the retraining, the change in the appointment of children’s health facilities. And we are confident that the next step should be the law that will, at the legislative level, ensure, indeed, the logic of the functioning of health institutions in Ukraine. The committee's asking for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u109	Dear colleagues, the committee has made its position known. If you need to, please sign in. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? Naydenov, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u110	Please hand over Katherine Samuel.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u111	Catherine Samuel, please. Get ready, Vaszuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u112	The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine will support this decision because we were initiators, by the way, also a similar decision on the moratorium on the closure of out-of-school institutions. And that's very good at complementing the very determination that you've been given before. We were really proud to have both Artek and Young Guard. And we were proud that we had just two of these huge healing children's regions in Ukraine: Eupatoria and Scadovian in Hersonian. That was it. And we have been able not only to rest but, above all, to heal ourselves. Unfortunately, we were barely working with you right now to restore the good name “Artec” and “Young Guard”. We need to do everything we can to restore the status of Eupatoria's children's health and the status of Scadovska children's health. That was the case, and there are all the conditions for our children’s recreation. I'm talking about imposing a moratorium not only on state institutions, but also on community and community institutions. Why? Herson’s combines, already notoriously tragic Hersonic combines, had many children’s health - care facilities on the Azov Sea and the Black Sea, as well as adult and child - care workers. There's nothing left. People want to find the ends, unfortunately, they can't find them. Because in this room too, there are those who have put their hands together to sell and sell what is greedy. And so, of course. The name is in the ruling coalition. And that's why, of course, we're going to support that decision. And I want to say that if the Supreme Council of Ukraine does nothing, it will do everything to do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u113	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u114	And he's going to do everything he can to stop the change in the profile of a child's health care professional, so you and I are worth something.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u115	Katerina Vaschuk, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u116	Dear colleagues, the Lithuanian Block faction will support the document. And what caused this? I think what's left over and what can remain for the children's rest is very important to me today. And I support the idea that these should not be just state institutions. You all know that not only Crimea, but not only the Black Sea, but not just those areas where it was warm, had the opportunity to heal children. Each region had the same opportunity. Intercommunal child camps were built, and pioneer camps were built on lakes, just in the woods. Some have been preserved to this day. And every year, those patriots who want to save something for their children have to fight those who want to privatize their hair. I think it's very important today in conditions where ecology in Ukraine isn't brilliant, when we have a very strong deterioration in the immune system, the immunity of our children, to make sure that all children, or at least the part that needs so much, can get better in the summer for other periods of vacation. And this is not just a task, it is the responsibility of the national deputies to take care of our children today, and this is the future of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u117	Bondar Alexander Mikolaiovich, the faction “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”, and Jaroslav Suhi will then perform.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u118	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies, has two aspects: legal and social. I would like to remind you that under 92 articles of the Constitution, property rights are governed solely by laws. Therefore, this decision is unlikely to be implemented. That's what I told the author. But today's situation is really critical, there's a financial crisis, and I know that there are many cases where businesses are required to pay salaries, involve the prosecutor's office, there's no funds for it, and they're calling on the holding fund, the ministries, the cabinet of ministers to ask for the alienation of social workers to pay their salaries. And government authorities are forced to give these permits. And that's why this problem needs to be closed. I understand that the author could not quickly pass the law, so that we could adopt it in the first and second readings, would be signed by the President, and now these problems will not be solved. That's why I think we do. We have had cases when we imposed a moratorium on bookstores, on publishing houses for alienation. An exception can be made – to accept this decision, but to oblige the government to submit an appropriate law urgently so that it has legal power to execute all authorities. You realize that in a period of economic, financial crisis at which prices are going to sell this business property, and it's going to go not to eat, it's just to pay off the wages that have to be done, but still from other sources. We need companies to look for other ways to pay their wages, not to distribute for no price the social sphere that really needs attention from the people's deputies. So given that this decision is not legally balanced, I think we can support it as a temporary measure. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u119	Jaroslav Mikhailovich Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u120	Dear colleagues, why did I ask for your word? Because in this session room during the parliamentary, repeated parliamentary hearings concerning the child's health, we said to you: Today in Ukraine, the vast majority of children's health workers are notorious, there are no nationals, there are no trade unions. There's only one left, forget it. The famous ones, or children’s or pioneers’ camps, as in the southeast are called old - fashioned. They belong to factories, institutions, businesses. And Alexander correctly said that today, in a wild environment, these industrial enterprises were found. I asked then! How many times we have entered into the decree, and it has failed! In order for the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, or the wise Minfin who knows everything, to write out the preferences, there is no need for Zaporozhye’s industrial enterprises. For example, Motor City has 3 pioneer camps and 2 adults. adult resting grounds. Write him preferences so that he doesn’t have to be skinned for renting a beach, a tax on land, so that he doesn’t have to be charged with electricity, water, and gas at a different price! And he'll keep it. Because it's everyone's. It's Artema's factory, Turboatom, Avianta, the Sichi Motor. This is his honor, and this is his prestige. What is “the decree ”? Remember in this room my bill on the moratorium on the alienation of professional property. What a scream, what a rape! We came to a common point of view, 401 votes for. What did we do? We forced the unions to do inventory. We've forced the unions to go through all the courts. We now know clearly what kind of trade property the property is going to be. By this decree, I'm sorry, I'm going to vote for it, but this is a declaration, and Alexander is a thousand times right, we need a law, a comprehensive law on child health, especially you from Donetsk, and I from Zaporozhye. People, and this diagnosis in our little children -- there's never been one in our lives! We need to heal them not in Zaporozhye or in Donetsk on the asphalt, but to take them to Azovsk, to the warm Black Sea.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u121	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the draft decision has been discussed. Committee proposal: accept as a basis. A vote is taken on the proposal by the adoption committee based on the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the introduction of a moratorium on alienation, liquidation, alienation, re-training of health facilities. [[children’s, professional, etc.]] Registration number 3693. Please vote. [[17:57:48]] For 386 Decision taken. Honorary colleagues, if you have no objection, may proceed in this way: in the second paragraph, where it is said to “recommend the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to draft a bill”, set a date, say, “by 20.04.2009”; and add a third point that this decision takes effect from the date of its publication and adopts a decision in general, otherwise it will lose meaning even on a political scale. With all due respect. No warning? Taking into account the details that I just mentioned, I'm voting on the adoption of the project as a whole as a decision. Registration number 3693, please vote. [[17:58:48]] For 366 I'll take the order. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families is under review. [[on the reconfiguration and retraining of military medical facilities]] Ukrainian National Rapporteur Andriy Anatoliyovich Kožemjakin, co - reporter for the National Security and Defence Committee, will be Mr. Anatoly Stepanovich Grizenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u122	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished national MPs, the introduction of this bill is based on the need to prevent attempts to re-arrange and re-prove military health care facilities and rest of the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Security Service, the State Border Service of Ukraine and others established in accordance with the laws of Ukraine of military formations and law enforcement agencies. Attempts at re-arrangement of the treatment and prevention facilities have recently been related to the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Agency. Military medical units of the Ministry of Internal Affairs tried to transfer the Ministry of Health to the Ministry of Health and the Security Service to the Department of Economic Affairs. Both these and other decisions completely undermine the health and health-care system of military personnel, law enforcement personnel, their families, persons released from military service to reserve or resignation, and other categories of persons to which the Law applies. The act of the Ukrainian Act on Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families. The need to preserve the subordination of these facilities is explained by the fact that they are an integral part of the mechanisms for the functioning of the specified ministries and departments, which carry out specific tasks, including military and medical expertise in the recruitment of candidates for service, medical care or support of military personnel and law enforcement personnel, who, in the event of illness or rehabilitation, are also directly involved in the execution of their operational tasks, monitoring the physical and psychological health of the employees of these law enforcement agencies, medical and health care providers of the Ministry of Defence. In addition, according to current legislation, employees and pensioners of some other state institutions, such as the Prosecutor’s Office, the Court, the State Security Service, the State Security Service, the State Tax Administration, the Foreign Intelligence Service, and the U.S. The bill does not require both amendments to other laws and additional expenses from the State Budget of Ukraine. So please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u123	Thank you. Committee position. If you don't insist then we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u124	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I think this bill needs to be hailed and, above all, as a signal of alarm, which I hope is heard by the military leaders of all military formations, so that there is no attempt in any way at this time to embalm these very important, including social institutions. But I want to pay attention, we can only accept this document in the first reading, because it needs serious development both from the point of view of managing the management mechanism, and we need to describe in more detail another mechanism to dissipate these sanatoriums and hospitals. [[you can't just stop sub-ordering]] So you can leave it in the sub-order system, but you can rent it out, you can sell it out. There's only going to be one room, some one healing room, for the analysis, a little pavilion. So I'm asking the author of a legislative initiative involving, including the government, the second reading to rework it. Hopefully, we'll support it in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u125	Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? Is it? Write down who insists, please. There are insistences, dear colleagues. We should have accepted it in general, or we could have the Cabinet of Ministers decide on the mechanism, it's for your own good. Oleg Zarubinski, please. Very briefly, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u126	I'm really tight. Any embezzlement of medical facilities is criminal in nature. The massacre of medical institutions that treat those from whom we want to perform the complex functions of law enforcement and military, is a crime in Cuba, squared. And that's why I think this initiative needs to be supported. To support, at least, because implementation can and will contribute to improving, enhancing social protection for people in pursuits, people relying on important public functions, and we demand full returns from them, they must be healthy. We will support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u127	Dear colleagues, this is Prokopchuk, the faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u128	Yuri Prokopchuk, Timoshenko Street. Dear colleagues, this law really needs adoption, including as quickly as possible in general, so the time for processing is not much longer. Why? Because today there is indeed pressure, including for the head of the U.S. military and security agencies, to agree and to write as quickly as possible the conclusion that it is not advisable to maintain hospitals, especially where there are large garrisons. So we have to put an end to this, to think about those who, every day with guns in their hands, defend the sovereignty and independence of Ukraine and the end-of-the-world to come back to them with their faces, not with their backs, what the Ministry of Defence sometimes does, too. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u129	Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u130	Thank you, Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, there is no doubt that order is needed and that the faction of Communists will be supported and I propose to vote as a whole as a law. I pressed the counter button because clearly not. That's why I'm here to express my support. That's one thing. And second of all, it's a technical trick. But there is also opposition to this law. I would like to say that if it were just that these hospitals were serving the Ukrainian Security Service, the current warehouse, especially the “K” team, I would vote with two hands against it. Because they didn't deserve it. But given that, in fact, there are many people there who have given up years and decades of service and at the State Security Committee, now in the Security Service and other related institutions, there is no doubt that this bill needs to be supported. And unlike the previous decision, where we have accepted only wishful thinking that we should do so, we should thank Kožemjakin’s colleague for not copying the commission to someone else, for there is nothing to do. And he took it and made the law. And now we're going to legitimize, and we're not going to wait for the Cabinet of Ministers of the Bar Association to work on one article of the same sentence. So let's support it and I propose to support it as a whole as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u131	National Deputy Karpuk faction "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u132	Vladimir Karpuk, deputy group “For Ukraine”. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! We have passed three laws to prohibit the retraining of the sector’s treatment facilities in the last two weeks. I'll remind you. Last week we passed Law 4037 in the first reading on the amendment of the Law on Police, on the prohibition of re-profile and on the alienation of treatment facilities belonging to the IMF system. Before that, Law 3693, a more faithful decree, was passed. We discussed it under the terms of the ban on re-profileing the alienation of children's institutions, but it's where professional institutions are said to be. And I remind you that the funds allocated to health care are distributed between 17 branches and ministries with fixed beds. The Ministry of Health has 95 percent of beds. But compare the cost. Let me give you an example. For specialized and highly specialized medical care provided by the Ministry of Health for all beds, 436 million are budgeted. A total of 360 million people have been assigned to hospital treatment. That network of medical facilities that was preserved by the Armed Forces, which was set at more than one million military personnel, was preserved. Now in the army, we know 240,000 people. So all of these things can't be done in the same way, because I think next Sunday we're going to be considering banning the re-profile of the alienation of some other department. So far, we don't have a Department of Water Management, but there's a Basain hospital that has 60 million dollars allocated to it, and there's money allocated to it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u133	Please finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u134	So if we're going to put the order in order, we can't just be so clear about it -- prohibition, prohibition, prohibition. A well-designed strategy is needed to optimize the state's bed fund. Otherwise we won't do anything. Although I will vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u135	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. It's quite obvious that all the speakers here have logic. But let us agree that these specialized facilities also serve as a place of communication for those who are veterans who have served in all these departments. So right now, we need to adopt this law. And I ask, Your Honor, I will now put to the vote a proposal for adoption on the basis of draft law, registration number 4111, to amend the Ukrainian Act on Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families. Please vote. [[18:10:04]] For 358 Decision taken. Just a minute. I beg of you, dear fellows. Anatoly Stepanovich Grecenko warned that a mechanism should be defined. Maybe we should. Please. A mechanism for organizing the activities of these institutions. Maybe we've made a protocol commission to our committee to get them to make the right proposals, and now we're going to adopt this law. So I'd like to ask Anatoly Stepanovich if you have no objection. Please, the microphone. Dear colleagues, we must not violate the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u136	Dear colleagues, let's understand that we sent a signal to the military leaders. But I want to pay attention to what's called the law and what's written in it. It contains a ban on re-profile, and there is not even a word in the text itself. It's just that it's forbidden to change subordination. That's the first one. But you have to ban other things that, when you maintain a valid sub-order scheme, allow you to alienate real estate, close establishments and so on, that's not what can be written simply as editorial rights. I'm asking you to accept this signal, I think, and the government heard, and all the heads of the department did go through the second reading. And it's normal to treat it so that the President doesn't promise it and that it actually works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u137	Dear colleagues, let me put it this way, I would ask that we find the logic here. Maybe let's add to that: change in subordination and over-scheduling. To the list of structures, let's add -- the Department of Public Protection. And I think with such a wish and a proposal from the committee head, we could accept it. Well, if you don't mind, Anatoly Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u138	Dear colleagues, we need more than just to accept today to go happy to work. You have to include items that forbid the alienation of property when you save the profile and when you save the subordination system, because that's what's happening right now. Now the beach is in Sudak, and everything is in place, everything remains the way it was. In Theodosius, they do the same. Let's do it in a simplified way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m1.u139	Dear colleagues, there is such an offer. Let us write down “no change in subordination, re-profiling and alienation” and take this into account as a law. Well, that's what we're taking into account. Is there no objection? Taking into account this proposal, and what you should add to the power structures of the Department of State Protection is quite obvious. We have to add here. I am voting on the approval of the law in the second reading and generally as a law. Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I asked if there was anyone, I put it to a vote. Well, they were all in for it! You're the one who objected. Well, now that I've announced the vote, dear colleagues! [[18:13:01]] For 329 The law is passed. Dear colleagues, I asked you, there was a warning. We counted it. There were no other warnings. I did the right thing to the Rules. The law is passed. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have exhausted the schedule of meetings, and we have considered all the issues that were set out in the schedule. Thanks for the job. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow we'll continue our plenary work at 10 a.m.
