ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:41]] [[Registration of Ukrainian National Deputies]] Cards registered in the 351st National Deputy in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Ladies and gentlemen, I see that not everyone has yet registered in the electronic system, please expedite the registration. Dear National Deputies! Today is the birthday of our colleague Mosak Sergio Mikolaiovich. Let us welcome him and wish him good health and success. [[Applause]] Dear National Deputies! According to article 25 of the Rules, 30 minutes are allocated on Tuesday for statements by authorized factions with applications, reports. I'd like the factions to sign up for the performance. Please put the names of the people's deputies on the board. People’s deputies: Baranov, Illashov, Cibenko, Martinenko, Ungurian Dear colleagues, before the speech is announced, let me say that today the diplomatic deputies of the European Parliament, the large group in Ukraine, are holding meetings. Yesterday we had a meeting at the Supreme Council, a meeting with factions. Let's welcome our colleagues. [[Applause]] Dear National Deputies! Let's move on to the performances of the authorized factions. The word is Valery Baranov, a faction of “Litvina Block”. A representative of the Party of the Regions will speak next. Illias is written down.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u2	Respectable voters and colleagues! We were expected to produce results, but unfortunately they did not, but the glazing and the struggle for power of several personalities flourished. Today, we, like all the citizens of the country, are hostages of this fight, so let us finally unite and eliminate the vicious party system of elections that has led us all and the State to a standstill. Obviously, if any proposal is not supported by a vote, it is not a reason to hit the technology and block the rostrum. Stop trying to keep Parliament from working! Our faction supports the initiative of Vladimir Mihajlovich Lithuania not to pay members' salaries in days of absence. Who doesn't want to work, don't come here. Let's vote with hands, jumping, jumping, not cards for neighbors. It's a show of trying to fool the undergraduate. There are clearly problems both with social standards and with a minimum of living, but let's solve it in a civilized way. The budget could not be completed, although it was for the first time aimed at the interests of local self-government, and thus at the common people. This is the first and correct step in the decentralization of power and the elimination of regional and district administrations. There are problems and ways to improve the budget. We need to start looking at it, doing income and expenditure analysis, making reasonable proposals, calculating budget deficits and focusing on the development of income-added activities. But if you lock the tractor in, the ground won't make it. The faction considers it necessary to hold a special meeting of the Supreme Council to discuss the actual situation in the country. We must invite the first persons of the State to this Hall to express their views on how to deal with the problems. Without that, it is not possible to determine the right path of movement. There are no programmes and reforms in the country, and without them we have no future. We are trying, however, to manage the market economy by ignoring the world practice and experience of post-Soviet States. It is only with political will to do so that professional staff are in power. The Government is working on a current one and is not pursuing a strategy, which is nowhere to be found. We have to start with the balance of power. The existence of two persons with uncertain powers is a guarantee of conflict and has been confirmed by practice. It is not up to criticism and human resources policies, starting with party and Kumovo principles. Today, whoever's in charge is in charge of anything. Tell me, why should the deputy heads of the administration be brought to Kabmin for interview and approval? Or Cabmine's doing nothing? Such strict monitoring has been established, but the heads of the Raja administration are appointed by photographers and bartenders, poets and simply rallying banners. In due course, our president has upset the professionals. In addition to the rigid centralization of power and finance, corruption flourishes, and that is its reason, it has been created by a corrupt system of power. And in the weather report. Soon winter will come, there will be another heroic fight for gas, non-payment for tariffs, for savings behind heat. I felt that cutting down all the billboards with promises, hints and nice people and putting them in scrap metal would be enough money for 26 days of heating up the entire budget area of the State. We have recently adopted a reform programme for this sector. I hope that the next budget will not leave a painful subject unfunded. Recently, you and I have almost adopted a multifaceted Housing Code. I am addressing the faction of the Regions, please support the Housing Code and the authors of your members of the Rybak and Popov party. Without this Housing Code, there will be no reform in our State. You see, then at least one reform will start working in our country. The Lithuanian faction calls upon all MPs and their leaders to be aware of their responsibilities, to remember their voters and to begin their work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u3	Mikola Janović Azarov, faction of the Party of Regions, please. The next performance by the Communist faction is Zibenko Peter Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u4	Respectable citizens of Ukraine, respected colleagues! The country's state budget is a public instrument for stabilization and socio-economic development, but in the hands of an effective Government. In the hands of an inefficient government, an incompetent government, is the main instrument for destabilizing the country, the main instrument of economic collapse. The current budget will not be implemented by some 40 billion. Today almost every second bracelet spent by the Government of Timoshenko is in debt. How many more countries can live at the top of empty promises and irresponsibility? Over the past two years, the economy has been brought to the final stage of degradation. Half-past construction, chemical and petroleum production, freight turnover decreased by 30 per cent, construction dropped by 54 per cent. The national currency has been depreciated by more than 80 per cent, and gasoline is twice as expensive. These are world records. Such losses are usually incurred by the State during the war. People are working on a reduced salary, part-time week, on leave at their own expense. The pay fund for 7 months of this year was less than half a year. As a result, the purchasing capacity of the population decreased by almost 20 per cent. So what does the Government say by presenting the 2010 budget? They tell us that next year the budget will increase by 65 billion, or 42 per cent. On what? I ask them, how did you raise your hand to draw almost twice the income if you didn't hit your finger so people would start making twice as much money? Tell me, what miracle must it be that a government that is stable only in its failure to fulfil its plans and promises will be able to implement this break-up budget next year? Of course, it's pure waters of adventure. We are told that the draft budget will provide invisible social protection, but if the budget has a minimum of living at the end of 2010 less than actually in June of this year, is that social protection? It's not a budget, it's absurd! That is, in the 2010 draft budget, income is significantly overestimated and expenditure is not at all real. And it's an adventure. We have just been told that local budgets are supposedly increasing. For the first time, inter-budget transfers for more than 11,000 budgets were approved without serious work with regional, district and rural budgets. It's not decentralization, it's over-centralization. And in violation of the basic principle of the Budget Code, fabulous promises have been made to all local budgets. I want to warn the local authorities: they will not give you any more money, they will simply transfer to you more of the unresolved problems created by the Government of Timoshenko over the past two years. Local budgets are expected to increase by 26 billion. Let's figure out what this is. First, out of this amount, three billion incomes were previously credited to the State budget. The transfer of government programmes to local budgets is another 4 and a half billion. I will say that for the first time in all these years, an attempt has been made from the State budget to locals to transfer the system of vocational training, which will mean a cross on this system. Thirdly, the income portion of local budgets is inadequate, in particular the income of the main source — the income tax of individuals — is overestimated by an estimated 8 billion. This type of local budget growth would be only about ten billion, which would result in less than income on the assumption of inflation. This year's expenditure. It is now much said that additional resources are allocated not only to villages but also to district budgets. But the Government is silent that regional, district budgets will lose a large part of their income as a result of the application of new rules on the taxation of income from natural persons. Only by these standards will the income of the regional and district budgets be less than 15.2 billion, and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u5	Allow me to finish the speech. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u6	and income from the income tax of natural persons is the main source of income tax for district and district budgets. District budgets, however, have lost some 5 billion dollars in this distribution. It should not be forgotten that the basic infrastructure that provides for the needs of urban and rural peoples is currently at the expense of the district budgets. These are district hospitals, houses of culture, boarding schools for disabled persons, music schools and so on. Regional budgets are equally important. The State will cover the budgeted amounts by means of equalization grants. However, the equalization grants will depend on the implementation of the State budget's income. The State budget is not real. More simply, local budgets are at very high risk. Moreover, it should be remembered that in the budgets of villages, towns of regional importance, delegated powers are increasing. In such circumstances, very serious questions arise. The Government is once again on the path of lawlessness. Lawlessness, violation of the Budget Code and the Constitution. In this way, it shows how it is going to continue to run the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u7	Thank you. Cibenko Peter Stepanovich, a faction of Communists, is invited to the presentation. Next is Mikola Martinenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u8	Communist faction, President of the Organization of Veterans of Ukraine, Petr Cibenko. Dear colleagues! Today, everyone who loves the ideals and creators of the great Fascism Victory celebrates the Day of Partisan Glory, these glorious fighters of the Fifth Partisan Front. On behalf of the faction of the Company of Ukraine, I would like to bow to these brave, courageous people for their worthy contribution to the achievement of the Great Victory over Fascism and to wish them health, happiness, well-being and all the best! [[Applause]] I would like to remind all of us once again, as well as the members of all levels, and today, 233,000 in Ukraine, which marks the International Day of People of Prominent Age on 1 October, and that is also Veteran Day in Ukraine. As Chairman of the largest veteran organization, the Organization of Ukrainian Veterans, which has more than 10 million people in its ranks, I would like to ask all of us to take note of this event. So it has happened that in some areas today there are 3-4 veterans, and sometimes even 5 deputies of different levels, who are able to support these people, whom today, I will remind the youngest of whom is now over 83. He would therefore urge everyone to be actively involved in this work, especially given that we have the 65th anniversary of the liberation of Ukraine from the fascist invaders. Returning to today's meeting. I reiterate that our faction, the faction of the Compartium of Ukraine, insists on a full vote of bills on wage increases and subsistence minimums and a moratorium on price increases and tariffs. Only by raising wages and freezing food prices, essential goods, medicines and introducing a moratorium on rising housing and utility tariffs will it be possible to minimize the decline in social standards and ensure real, rather than nominal, growth in the income of our citizens. For whom it is not yet understood that the increase in the minimum wage and subsistence minimum, or, as it is beautifully called, the rise in social standards, will inevitably result in price increases, and then we will be with you not only witnesses, but also associates of another government-Oligarchic affair, when the budget money, that is, taxpayers' money, will be transferred from the public treasury to the pockets of factory owners, newspapers and steamers. In the past year alone, wages have increased by 4 per cent and real incomes have decreased by more than 10 per cent. I appeal to the Lord of the Empire and, by association, to the People's Deputies. Before strengthening Parliament and the budget, raise wages for workers and employees at your factories and factories, your shops and offices. Cut your appetites, stretch your appetites, emphasize your seatbelts and share some of your profits with people. It is not clear: there has been an increase in wages in the factory, in the local budget, in addition to repairing roads and social benefits, as well as in housing and utility tariffs. But no, you're not gonna do it or do it. You don't care about the problems of the country and the people, the harder and the harder endings. On the contrary, by cutting wages, reducing the working week, working days, tens of thousands of employees of your businesses, you solve your personal problems, you translate all the burden of crisis into the shoulders of a mere laborer. Your so-called social standards have long been hanging all over Ukraine on billboards, and someone is convinced that they are working, someone is proving that they were and will be an effective manager, and someone is simply and unknowingly saying that he is Arsenius the Almighty. You can assure us that you will hear each and every one of you. You won't hear or help unless you give it to international speculators from the International Monetary Fund. With regard to cooperation with IMF, this is a subject of separate discussion. And our position, the position of communists on this issue, is constant. The so-called IMF loan assistance is not support or a way to raise the unsettled debts in Ukraine, for which land payments, bras, and family payments will have to be paid. In the wake of populism and..
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u9	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u10	Let me finish. The government and the banking mafia have brought the issue of an unsecured bracelet to $40 billion. What this is for savings, clearly even a freshman student. It's a collapse. It is clear to us that no political force other than the communists and left-wing members is able to present to society a real programme of crisis recovery and the formation of a social State. This is not surprising, as the very system of capitalist socio-economic relations, which was established during the years of Ukraine's independence, is flawed. So, without changing the system, without turning the person back to the inevitable values that the left-wing idea holds, the crisis cannot be overcome. As long as capital is managed by the country, the work will be oppressed and crises endless. Conclusion. The left idea must be mastered not only by the minds of people, what is happening in the world today, but also by power. Power to the working people and in the name of the working people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u11	Mikola Volodymyrovich Martinenko, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" faction. Next, he will speak from the faction “Blanket of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u12	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Today, the most controversial censuses are being broken around Ukraine’s 2010 budget. But there are axioms you don't argue with. The country cannot live without the State budget – it is its basic economic document. Therefore, the 2010 budget should be adopted. That's what people are waiting for. And the electoral campaign should not stand in the way of economics and crisis management. When assessing the State Budget project, it must be realized that there was an enormous task for the Cabinet. It was not easy to determine the optimal parameters of the budget even when there was no elections and no economic crisis. Now the situation is fundamentally different. It's very heavy. But the government has done everything possible to prepare a budget that will not only reduce the impact of the crisis but also contribute to the recovery of Ukraine’s economy. And individual budget figures can be refined and adjusted in the course of first and second readings in the Supreme Council. As the elections from the opposition neared, there was an increasingly harsh electoral rhetoric. But you can't forget about the economy. If there are intelligent alternative ideas in opposition, please. But I emphasize, smart and reasonable. You don't have to do old unrealistic ideas under a new sauce. Let's tell the truth. The adoption of proposals by the Party of the Regions to double the minimum and wages immediately would have a negative impact on the economic situation. What would we vote for? First. This is an additional inflation surge, plus 7-9 percent only by the end of 2009. This is an increase in the 2009 budget deficit by 2.5-2.7 percent. So it's almost twice this year. According to experts, an increase in the minimum wage of 30 percent would mean a similar increase in private sector costs to pay. Or the release of workers to save the company's salary fund and increase the cost of production. And that would also reduce the competitiveness of Ukrainian producers and wages in the second stage. So the fantastic social initiatives of the Party of Regions, after all, would hurt millions of people, including their voters. The leaders of the Party of Regions at the end of the day understood the flaw of their position in blocking the work of the Supreme Council. And I think there's everyone in the audience right now understanding that we have to go into the budget process. I don't want to think that, in this case, the whole budget is about just a line that provides for spending on presidential elections. In addition to adopting the budget, the Supreme Council has to respond to the national currency situation. It is necessary to restore the active activity of the National Bank parliamentary commission of inquiry. The only question, and the request to the Chief of the Supreme Council that we be able to vote on the commission's extension this week, is draft regulation 4582. He's standing on Friday in the daytime, but somewhere in the end, so we can do it. In addition to the budget and problems of the national currency, a number of economic bills are still pending, especially with regard to the relief of the effects of the economic crisis in various fields. Many of them are presented by our faction, including the amendments to the Personal Farming Act. They provide for the introduction of a single tax for members of a private farm as well as a mandatory government pension and social insurance. Or take a project, for example, by Kulikov's law to prohibit financial institutions unilaterally to increase interest and other payments on loans already issued. This will bring relief, without exaggeration, to millions of Ukrainians. I am confident that when the electoral heat passes, the situation in the Supreme Council will change radically, the powerful divisive factor of the elections will disappear, and Parliament will finally deal with the consequences of the economic crisis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u13	Mikola Tomenko, from the Yulia Timoshenko faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, I hope we have a historic meeting today, because the long-standing campaign to block the Supreme Council will be over. And I'm asking myself, what did the block initiators get? I don't know. But I know I lost Ukraine during this period. During this period, Ukraine lost its failure to respond to the financial market situation and the collapse of the bracelet. Ukraine has lost its lack of a number of very important anti-crisis bills. Ukraine has lost unvoted laws on local self - government. And Ukraine has lost the responsibility of believing that all power can fight, not against itself, but fight for the country and fight the crisis. So I'm sure today we're not just going to work, we're going to work until we consider the last issue of the agenda, and our faction suggests it, just like we're going to work tomorrow and the next day. I would like the responsibility of the people who here, in the session room and outside the session hall, to carry the mandate of the national deputy, to become higher. That is why I publicly address the “prodigal sons” of Ukrainian parliamentaryism, who are candidates for the Presidents and who wander Ukraine, and teach MPs and parliament how to work. Friends, either go back to Parliament and work, or have dignity, write statements, say good-bye to the MP's mandate, and teach cities and villages how to work. I'm sure we should put order here first. We must vote on the knowledge of parliamentary immunity. We have to sort out the entire system of benefits in the country because as long as the Constitutional Court was blocked, 59 members of the Party of the Regions left their elite pensions again. I have a question: are you protecting the leaders of Nazbank, who count 120 to 130,000, and are now going to receive 90 percent of that pension? So if we fight for the common people, we have to start with ourselves. So our faction says you can't raise the average temperature in the hospital, you have to protect those who need protection. If we raise social standards today for everyone, including Nazbank's head there and the businessmen, we'll know that we have private businesses today that are going to kick people out. Is it not clear that we are provoking unemployment? So the position of government and our faction is the next. We help those who receive the minimum pension. We help teachers and doctors. We help those who need help most, but we ask those who have too much to share with us today even in the face of a crisis. For us today, it is important that opposition not only combats the crisis. It's important for us that you and the President's team remember the law. For days, a number of Presidential decrees on personnel appointments were signed without agreement with the government. This is a violation of article 118 of the Constitution and a series of other articles. What do we hear from the President's team? They say, “You know, we broke the Constitution because winter is beginning.” I haven't heard that from three presidents. I can imagine what will happen when winter begins. If the Constitution can be broken at the beginning of winter, what should be done during the winter? So I am absolutely convinced that in today's situation, we must act as a Ukrainian team that protects Ukraine from the crisis. Today, those people who don't work in parliament, or the people who are today in the government, who are fighting with the government at the President's office today, are not fighting with the government. They're fighting Ukraine. So once again, I want to ask all the politicians who are so excited about the presidential election company. Friends, you can listen to each other, but you need to hear each other. Today, we can fight opponents, we must not fight our own country, we must not fight our own people. I do not urge you to love Ukraine, although that would be desirable. I do not urge you to love your own language because the opposition lacks the professional and patriotic level of the slogan in Ukrainian to write in the Ukrainian Parliament. [[Applause]] I urge you to respect the country, to respect the people we live in, and then everything will be fine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, the factions are over. I'm asking the people's deputies to return to their jobs. Now we're going to start some practical work with you on Tuesday's schedule. As for the suggestions made in the speeches of the national MPs. Valery Baranov for a special meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Dear colleagues! You will be invited to consider the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to hold such a special meeting on October 6. Since the Academy of Sciences, to which the Supreme Council of Ukraine has commissioned or requested the preparation of the National Report on the socio-economic situation of Ukraine and the consequences for the people and the State, will now complete the preparation of the relevant material. And the draft regulation will propose that a meeting be held with the participation of the President, the government, other heads of central government authorities, inviting the heads of district administrations, district councils to speak with the President, the government, the National Bank, to get a full picture of what's going on in the country. The Supreme Council will support us -- we'll work on this, no -- then we'll take full responsibility. With regard to Peter Stepanovich Cibenka’s proposals, namely, in order to revitalize the preparations for Ukraine’s liberation Jubilee. I ask the relevant committees of the Supreme Council to return to the projects, more specifically, to the decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and to ensure effective monitoring of the preparations for the 65-year liberation of Ukraine. Because it seems that the work in this regard is going very slowly. With regard to the proposals made by Mikola Tomenka to make up for the time spent blocking, I'm going to put a motion on the vote so that we can work on the issues set out in the schedule for today. Is there no objection? Well, then, I ask you to prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, we're about to make a decision. Please temporarily interrupt the meetings you are having there. Well, take your seats, we'll vote now. I am voting on the proposal that we continue the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine until the completion of the consideration of the issues set out in the September 22nd schedule on Tuesday. Please vote. [[10:34:14]] For 203 The decision is not taken. By factions, please: Region Party - 1, Yulia Block Timoshenko - 153, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" - 28, communists - 0, "Litvina Block" - 20, non-fractional - 1. The decision is not taken. So let's get to the point. Dear colleagues, on the Conciliation Council, we discussed the issue of extremely sensitive, namely, draft decisions to raise Ukraine's social standards. I'll put it to a vote, please! – to include those issues on this subject that are not included in the agenda and then to listen to the reports, to the reports and to discuss them together with all four bills. The vote will be separate in the order of the coming of these bills. Is there no objection? Then there's the second offer. May I have your attention, please? Taking into account the sensitivity of the matter and the need for each MP to express his or her position yesterday, a proposal was made that we should conduct the vote in person, not in cards, but in person each MP said in favour or against this document. First of all, it will be the personal responsibility of every deputy, secondly, we won't have to go back to the subject. It must be resolved once and for all by the personal will of each MP. Is the offer understood? Once again, I want to remind you what it is and put a draft decision to the vote. With regard to the Bills: 4762, 5062, 5091-1, 5091-2, 5091-3, this procedure is proposed, and every national MP who registers and wants to vote is in his office, in the session room. The other one. The head of the Accounting Commission along the alphabetical list reads out the name, name, and parent of each national MP. Third. Every national MP whose surname has been announced, in the event that he votes in favour, raises his hand and, by voting in favour, says in the "yes" microphone. If he votes against or abstains without raising his hand, he announces his decision from his place. Four. When the decision is announced, our video and audio system, first of all, includes the microphone of each national MP; second of all, it turns on the video of each national MP. So the popular MP's will is fixed using audio and video tools, as well as a stenogram of the plenary. And the last. The roll-call process is fixed and controlled by the Counting Commission. And according to the results of the vote, the head of the Counting Commission will report the results. Is the offer understood? Doesn't he give you a hard time? Please, one minute from each faction. Hanna Herman, please, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u16	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Parliament and MPs should respect themselves. The fact that we are voting in the normal regime, since the ordinary meeting of the Supreme Council is going on, confirms that we are responsible for our decisions and for our own vote. What reasons do you have, for example, to accuse me of not being responsible for my vote and for my decision? What does it mean that I will be clapped on the shoulders and told whether I am responsible for whether I vote or not? It's a violation of my parliamentary rights and it's a disregard for our parliamentary dignity. We should be absolutely responsible here in this room right now in the normal regime, not making any comedy and spectacles here, voting for salary increases and pensions, regardless of who's going to propose a bill from which the faction is going to propose.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u17	Thank you. Please, the BUT faction. Ivan Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u18	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! I want to say the next thing. Dear colleagues! We will support the proposal to change the voting order. But each of our deputies will honestly and frankly say what our colleague, Mikola Tomenko, said from the rostrum, we will not be taking part in this absurd theater. Speaking from the rostrum, one of the leaders of the faction of the Party of the Regions stated that the government's budget for the following year was unrealistic. Colleagues! What is laid down in the draft of these laws, the increase in social standards and social guarantees, makes the situation in Ukraine generally insane. We cannot as responsible people, responsible national deputies, take part in this madness! Dear colleagues, once again, if the decision goes through, we're going to insist on a second reading where black and white to record a similar rise in wages in a particular economy, which is the source of the budget's pension fund. We will strongly insist on this if this absurdity continues.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u19	Mikola Martinenko, please. You can get out of the rostrum so you don't walk too far. On the order of voting for social bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u20	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues! The faction in most of it will support your proposal, your draft decision on how to change voting. Indeed, the questions are too complex. We don't have to push the buttons for those bills that don't last, from an economic point of view, any criticism in the forerunner of the presidential election, and they're going to have a very difficult social impact in just a few months. So each MP has to testify for himself whether he supports these proposals or not. That's why we're going to support this draft regulation. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u21	Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u22	Simonenko, the Communist faction. I propose the initiative that has now been announced with regard to voting methods, I propose that we really be responsible in what sense. Vote the increase in minimum standards, living and minimum wage, but vote by standing up or personally, each claims its position, in a package with projects 1026, 3426, which provide for a moratorium on rising prices and tariffs on residential services and consumption of natural gas and electricity, food products, essential goods, public transport services, as well as moratoriums on rising prices and tariffs on medical devices, products of medical use. Then we will really be responsible for the question that we are considering and raising minimum social standards, indeed, will benefit our citizens, that is, raising the standard of living. And so it's going to be another manipulation of the citizens' consciousness, and they're going to put government money in their pocket and in their pocket of the oligarchs.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u23	Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u24	Oleg Zarubinsky “Block of Lithuania”. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Frankly, I was surprised to hear a colleague say about what the MP's personal vote is -- it's comedy and it's a performance. I think, for example, that comedy and performance is a stealth fight for disadvantaged people off the coast of Baham or Canary or Monaco Casino. This is a comedy and a spectacle. And when the question, and the subject matter, is so debated that so many scribblings have been broken around it, it is obvious that today, at the very moment, a person will personally declare his position. Once again, I want to say it in person. This alone will show whether it is sincere or not. Whether it's electoral technology or whether it's really a genuine desire to improve social standards. So I think that the content of this regulation, in these conditions, on this issue is absolutely correct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u25	Dear National Deputies! We exchanged thoughts. We have a very difficult situation. And it's quite obvious that there's going to be another agenda for blocking the rostrum and destroying an institution like the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So to put an end to such approaches and then not to mention the MP's dignity, it's obviously necessary for each MP to establish his position, but it's your will. Let's, if you say so, we'll go another way. Before the vote, register at the registration table. Those MPs who don't have cards to block. And that's the right thing to do, because every deputy has to vote in person. And let's probably put a dot on this problem. So, Your Honor, I'm going to put a draft ruling to the vote, and you're going to vote. We're done. Let's go to the vote. And by voting, please determine. I am voting on the proposal to adopt the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine regulation as a decision to change the voting method for bills that relate to increasing the size of state social standards, please vote. [[Registration number 5091-P]] [[10:45:18]] For 240 Decision taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 0, "Club of Timoshenko July" – 153, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" – 39, communists – 27, "Club of Lithuania" – 20, non-fractional – 1. I ask the head of the Counting Commission to prepare the necessary materials for the vote. Peter Mikolaiovich, when we approach these issues, we will put to the vote, too, in this regard. Well, when we get there, then we'll put it to the vote, too, to continue. Now, dear fellows, may I have your attention? I will put to the vote a proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of bills to raise social standards that are not included in the agenda. Draft Law 4762, which is incorporated into the agenda. Bill 5062. This is a draft decree for the adoption of recommendations to the draft Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2010. [[on the size of the subsistence minimum and minimum wage]] Registration number 5062. The author is the national deputy of Ukraine Papiev. I'm betting on the vote for inclusion in the agenda. Please vote. Come on, your honors, let's include it, and then we'll discuss it in the vote and make a decision. [[10:46:53]] For 241 It's on. I'm betting on the vote for inclusion in the agenda. Dear colleagues, since they're going to go there as alternatives: 5091-1, 5091-2, 5091-3, I'll put them right away. Is there no objection? I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2009. [[on the increase in the size of State social and guarantees]] Again, registration numbers: 5091-1, 5091-2, 5091-3. Please vote. [[10:47:53]] For 242 Decision taken. The draft laws and regulations, registration numbers 4762, 5062, 5091-1, 5091-2, 5091-3, are being announced. Reporters: Ukrainian national deputies Oleg Zarubinsky, Mikhailo Papiev and Alexander Pecklusenko I'd like to ask then, then, the reporter Michael Papiev, to report two of them as soon as he reports. From the procedure, please, Peter Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u26	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, you and I have made a decision on how to vote. And now we're looking at projects that have to do with the minimum level of living and the minimum minimum wage. And I'm asking, let's listen at the same time, listen to the reports that have to do with the projects: 1026, 5093, 3426 and 5094. So what has something to do with the moratorium on price increases. And if we vote, every national MP and expression of their attitude about voting in a package: raising the minimum wage and living levels, as well as the moratorium on price increases. Then we will really solve the major problem that has to do with the living conditions of our citizens in crisis, that is, raising the standard of living. I propose to listen to the reports at the same time on these projects, and then, by getting up, vote consciously and for raising minimum standards, and for limiting price increases.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u27	Dear colleagues, Peter Mikolaiovich's proposal to consider these bills at the same time. Or perhaps you would support us in this way so that we can look at this package, where we're talking about the minimum of living and the minimum wage, and then we've been looking at all of these bills together, and there's also five of them, which are related to preventing inflation and supporting people? And then before I do that, I'm going to put this motion to a vote, too, so that there's a proper way to vote. And then we'll have it normal. No objections? Mikola Catherinechuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u28	Dear national MPs, distinguished radio listeners! The faction “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”, the European Party of Ukraine, Mikola Catherinechuk. The thing is, they're now trying to contradict a whole packet of populism, which I think will only damage the economy for today. But to go the way it's now being proposed, it's clear that this is some pressure on the Supreme Council, because it's clear that the moratorium is a super popular thing before the elections; it's clear that raising social standards is a super popular thing before the presidential elections. Excuse me, who's going to be responsible if you can't do that? So let's see, this populican package I suggest you don't put it to the vote at all. We voted on the change in voting mode in just one direction, so let's stick to it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u29	Dear colleagues, the proposal is that we are now considering draft laws, draft regulations that are announced before consideration. Let's finish the discussion. Let's go to the second block of questions. Then you and I will have a discussion on how to discuss and make decisions. No objections? The draft Act on the establishment of a minimum of living and minimum wage in 2010 is announced for consideration. [[Registration number 4762]] The rapporteur is Ukrainian national deputy Oleg Zarubinski. Michael Papiew will be next. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u30	Dear citizens of Ukraine! Dear colleagues! One of the most pressing issues, and this has been demonstrated by lengthy discussions, is the solution to the problem of living in Ukraine today. For no one is a secret, and it is true that the figures that are now recorded in our legislation under the concept of “food minimum” are far from the definition of “minimum” and the word “live”. What is the minimum of living? Is that a random number? Anyone's desire to share his country's wealth with the people? Maybe it's a way to assign an extra electorate before the election? Why should a minimum of living be determined on the basis of the reasons given, not according to the definition that it carries in itself and the law that gives it? And article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on Living Minimum states that it is a valuable amount, sufficient to ensure the normal functioning of the human body, to preserve its health, to collect food and to provide a minimum set of non-food products and a minimum set of services necessary to meet the basic social and cultural needs of the individual. Today the subsistence minimum is still at the cross-sectional level, you all know the figure, it's 626 bracelets. Almost half the money goes to utilities, because in our country, the richest people can afford not to pay for public services, the simplest people pay for them. We are no longer talking about satisfying cultural needs. What minimum set of non-food products can be expected from this amount? It's probably for soap and rope. And what can we talk about when our subsistence minimum not only provides social but also physiological needs. Dear colleagues, no less is the minimum wage. According to the European Social Charter, it should be 2.5 minimum of living, and a minimum pension should be 1.5 minimum of living. But Ukraine and all who have been in power for many years have not rushed or rushed to ratify this charter, the European Social Charter, for the reasons I have already stated. As early as the fourth call of the Supreme Council, it was on 24 November 2005 that the People's Deputies of the “Block of Lithuania” were introduced by Catherine Fomenko and Vasil Nadragha, a draft of the Social Code of Ukraine. In 2005! Ukraine’s Social Code, which was based on the European Social Security Code and the European Social Charter. And you know why he wasn't backing up our colleagues at the time, wasn't voted? Because then the presidential election only took place and there were no presidential elections on the nose. And the owners of factories, newspapers, steamboats, and, in addition, the Ukrainian national deputies refused to share their profits with the hired workers. That is why the Lithuanian Block is being proposed right before the official start of the election race to set that level of social security, with Ukrainians waiting for the next, after the 2010 presidential election. I, as a representative of the faction, had introduced a draft law on the establishment of a minimum of living and minimum wage, which is proposed to reinforce the trend towards an increase in living minimum and wages after the presidential election. I'm just going to give you four digits to show that it's not some fantasy and that it's not some kind of fantasy. The bill proposes that since November 1, 2009. Since 1 November 2009, the subsistence minimum has been set at 701 bracelets, from 1 January 2010 to 825 bracelets, and then, with a 3 month lie, it has grown to 875 bracelets by the end of 2010. It's not 5,000, it's not 10,000, it's not even three thousand. As for the minimum wage, which, you know, should be related to the minimum of living, is proposed: from 1 November 2009 to 744 bracelets, from 1 January 2010 to 860 bracelets, and once again with a lie every 3 months, it is progressive, not radical, not catastrophic, but actually progressive, wage increases to reach 922 dollars by the end of 2010. Dear colleagues! Man should see the prospect, not live from election to election or promise of a good life in 2025. We have to prove that it is a Ukrainian citizen, that his interests should be at the heart of public policy, whether there is an election campaign or not, because electoral campaigns are going on, they are going on, they forget the presidents, they forget anyone, and the generation of today's people is going to live today, not after 20 or 40 years. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u31	Dear colleagues! If you have any questions, please write them down. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Lukyanov’s national MP, please ask your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u32	Please pass the word to Hanna Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u33	Hanna Herman, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u34	Dear colleagues, we are very pleased, we, the Party of Regions, are very pleased that the coalition officials have finally listened to our demands and have put to the vote today to raise wages and pensions. We will support this initiative by whom it would not come, since we are in charge of raising wages and pensions. But we have information that the Block of Lithuania has made a special change to the voting form, knowing that several deputies are not in the room today, and these few deputies cannot vote in person, and in particular, in order to fail this vote, you have changed the voting form. So when it's not voted today, don't give it to God, it's a question of raising standards, we're totally relying on you for having agreed to change the voting form behind everyone's back in order to collapse.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u35	Thank you. I understood the questions correctly. It's about someone who forced or didn't force it. Ladies, I want to say that my bill was registered on July 3, 2009. Long before all the projects that, including your faction, were offered a few days or weeks ago. Underlining, July 3, 2009! Be correct. As for some arrangement, I don't know, I've never been a KGB sexist, I've never written a report, and I've never written a report and nowhere in my life, no. I didn't hear anything, I didn't slip, I didn't carry it. So I can't, maybe you don't understand me, but I can't answer that question. The only thing I want to say is that yesterday at the Conciliation Council meeting more than the day before today, the vote in favour of this decree was announced that it would vote. There were planes, we had to fly from Monaco, Baham, and Canary.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u36	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u37	It's a very important bill. It took people to bring them, you know. So please do not translate from one head to another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u38	Peter Cibenko, please, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u39	Thank you. Communist faction, head of the Ukrainian Veterans Organization, Peter Cibenko. Dear reporter! The faction of the Company of Ukraine certainly supports this bill. But as you report, as the media often do, you have never mentioned in your report the most disgraceful and realistic indicator of living at a minimum. What do I mean? And I mean the minimum of living for citizens who have lost their jobs. Because 626, if you'll excuse me, it's like an average hospital temperature. I remind you, for today's non-working living minimum, which is the basis of a basic pension, is 498 dollars. Why do we avoid this shameful phenomenon in our lives? So once again, I insist, we will support any increase.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u40	Let me finish the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u41	But let's be honest with the citizens that today, in fact, the actual working subsistence minimum for workers is 498 bracelets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u42	Thank you very much, Peter Stepanovich, as an expert on social policy. What's more, I agree with you that the formula itself, when it pays less for the disabled than it does for the workers, is that it's still worn out. Because they believe that civilization began when the original people began to worry about the disabled, the disabled, those who could not provide their lives. I came up with more or less real reasons and statistics. On July 3, I registered other numbers, and you know it. And there were a lot more numbers. But when statistics for August became known, in July and in those 20 days, unfortunately, the optimistic scenario is not being followed. [[previous September data]] So I think that if we accept these numbers, it will be a serious support, including for the incapacitated, because to them a certain extent, with a lie, it is true, but the minimum wage increases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u43	Eugene Kirilchuk, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u44	Thank you. Eugene Kirilchuk, faction of the Timoshenko Yulia Block. Dear Mr. Zarubinski! You have not entered a financial account for your law. Now the budget in everyone's hands, what amount of money do you have to add to this budget to implement your law? That's the first one. The other one. Where are they to be removed from? And the third. Would you agree to be Prime Minister, or at least Minister of Finance, to enforce this law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u45	Thank you for the professional question. Answer. There's a lot of talk about the Stabilisation Fund. To my profound conviction, including the Stabilisation Fund, must be a source that implements the proposals that have been made. Because once again I want to remind you, I will not read the contents of the first article of the Ukrainian law, which is the minimum of living. We do not define it with you on the basis of our own thinking, but it is determined that a person can survive physically. And second of all, I want you to read article 3 of the Final Bill, which I propose: “The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Budget Questions in Preparation and Processing” – pay attention! - “in accordance with the draft law amending the 2009 State Budget and the 2010 State Budget, take into account the living minimum and minimum wage.” I mean, unlike the projects that were being submitted before, I'm not necessarily bringing it in, but I'm asking for it. And I don't make it a back number, you know? When from September 1st.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u46	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u47	When three weeks have passed since September 1, setting a minimum and minimum wage. I'm not going that way. I mean, first, the promotion is due from November 1st. And notice that the next one goes back to January 1st, or the possibility of accumulating money. I understand the budget for your question, but let's also understand the millions of people who don't really understand how the budget is formed and who just can't physically survive today.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u48	Thank you. Yes, have a seat, please. Time's up. Mikhail Papiev. Yes, Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, your bill is 5062 and the following is 5091-2 and 5091-3. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u49	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine, Your Honor! I am grateful to all of you that we are not at a reduced scale today, not for the reduced procedure, but for the full consideration of these important bills. In order for the Ukrainian national deputies to ask their questions so that the rapporteurs and the authors of the legislative initiative can answer, and so that the television and radio audiences can understand what positions each bill stands for, and that they can also conclude that the Ukrainian Party of Regions has acted consistently since June of this year. We are today in the interest of our citizens. Today, we demand that the current authorities compensate for the fierce rise in food prices, non-food goods and services, and today we demand that one is that in the country of Ukraine laws be implemented, the Constitution of Ukraine is implemented to implement the laws of social protection of Ukrainian citizens, and that we can say with pride that we are in line with article 1 of the Constitution of Ukraine and that we are the rule of law. In order for radio and television audiences to understand more clearly the very term of subsistence minimum and how it relates to wages, pensions, social assistance, I will explain that in due course the Ukrainian Act on Social Standards and Social Guarantees was adopted. So the subsistence minimum is the social standard. It is totally independent of political power, totally independent of or subjective to the influence of either the Ukrainian national deputy, or the leader of the faction, or the head of the government, or even the President. It's calculated quite simply. In its time, the Regulation on the List of Food Goods, Non-Food Goods and Services, which is called a “food basket”, was adopted. And so, based on the prices that exist from the State Statistical Committee report, the consumer basket. The consumption rate is set by existing prices, and we get the minimum cost of living. The minimum of living is divided for four socio-demographic groups – children under 6 years of age, between 6 and 18 years of age, for working persons and disabled persons. We can now say that it is the Party of the Regions of Ukraine that has achieved what we are discussing in the Supreme Council. It is the Ukrainian Party of Regions that has achieved that the ruling coalition has acknowledged that the government of Timoshenko does not comply with the laws of Ukraine, that the Constitution of Ukraine is not being implemented. It is our political power today that seeks to raise the wages and pensions of Ukrainian citizens and to compensate for rising prices. Dear colleagues, in the Ukrainian legislative field, it is also defined by the Ukrainian Act “On a compulsory state pension insurance”, that the size of the subsistence minimum for disabled persons is the size of the minimum pension. So by adopting this law today, by increasing the subsistence minimum, we increase the pensions of all Ukrainian citizens. By adopting this law and taking into account that the Ukrainian Labour Pay Act has established that the minimum wage should not be lower but higher than the subsistence minimum for working persons, we thereby increase the wages of all citizens of Ukraine. And in the bill that I'm reporting, and today, at the suggestion of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I've combined these two bills, and I'm also proposing that today we settle the issue that happened on October 25, last year, despite the laws of Ukraine, by the government of Timoshenko. Since October 25, last year, wages and pensions have been frozen, the size of the first tariff level of the Single Tariff Network has been frozen. This is the indicator that affects the salaries of teachers, doctors, cultural workers, and social workers. Therefore, the bill clearly and clearly states that the size of the salaries, the tariff rates of the staff of the budgetary institutions are established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, based on the size of the salary at the level that exceeds the legislatively established minimum wage. And we are asking this question, if the Supreme Council of Ukraine votes in favour of these bills, we will definitely accept these questions. Another distinction that I would like to draw the attention of all Ukrainian national deputies. We have such a shameful 46th article of the Ukrainian State Budget Act. This is the level of housing provision that affects the Ukrainian Social Assistance Act of low-income citizens. We have 240 thousand of these citizens today. And that's why we're proposing to remove this unconstitutional, unconstitutional norm as a minimum of living. I'd like Ukraine's national deputies to support it. If we say that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has failed to comply with the State Budget Act, which is that by 1 May of this year, no change has been made to the State Budget of Ukraine, then we can count that every pensioner of Ukraine as a result of the deliberate illegal activity of our government will receive 200-300 dollars a month to his pension. Each budget officer is below the minimum wage, minimum wage, and a frozen tariff level of the Single Tariff Network, with between 800 and a thousand dollars a month. This social injustice must be settled. In doing so, we also draw attention, and we would like to make it legislatively clear that the heads of the budgetary institutions, when adopting our bills, should ensure that the monetary income index of the citizens of Ukraine is carried out in accordance with the basic law. Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, one more fact that I want to draw your attention to. On September 18, 2009, the Cabinet of Ministers published the actual size of the subsistence minimum in August of this year. So in the State Budget, we have a living minimum of 498 bracelets for disabled people. The Cabinet of Ministers counted and, according to the General Prosecutor’s Office, published that the actual size was 643 bracelets. So every pensioner gets less than 150 dollars a month under the minimum pension option. Dear colleagues, there are several ways we can get out of this situation that in 2009, we are now having September, and in eight months our citizens have not gotten enough. One of the proposals that we could discuss and the relevant legislative initiative of the Party of Regions prepared today is how we acted in 2004, when we adopted the debt restructuring bill under article 57 of the Education Act. That is, these salaries and pensions that the citizens of Ukraine have not received in 9 months of the current year as a result of deliberately underestimating the subsistence minimum and failing to comply with the rules of the Ukrainian State Budget Act by the Government of Timoshenko, we today have a clear and clear recognition of the creditors' debt of the State Budget, to submit a restructuring law on this debt and to repay these costs to our citizens. Dear Ukrainian National MPs, I ask you to support our bill. And I'd like to turn to the faction of the coalition. From experience, when - do you remember? – we voted in June and July this year on our bills on subsistence minimum, you voted in the first reading, you supported, and then the second reading didn't vote on these bills. Let us be honest with one and honest with the citizens of Ukraine. We have the laws of our people to pay back the wages and pensions they have not received. I ask all Ukrainian national deputies to support the initiative of the Party of Regions, which consistently advocates the social protection of our citizens. And we will also vote in favour of the legislative initiative of our colleague, Mr. Zarubinski, we will support his bill. We don't care who the author of the bill is today, we're interested in the people, the citizens of Ukraine, who we have to compensate for the rise in prices, the increase in wages and pensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, if you have any questions about the reporter Michael Papiev, please sign up for the question. Yes, please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Hanna Herman, please, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u51	Dear reporter, we know that if Yulia Tymoshenko's Block does not vote in favour of salary and pensions, there may not be enough votes in this room to pass this important bill. Tell me, how do you explain that one of the largest factions in Parliament -- "The Yulia Timoshenko" -- doesn't want to make life easier for people today? And why do they think they can raise wages and pensions in January, and now that they're in power, they don't want to raise wages and pensions. How would you explain that?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u52	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! I'm just explaining this as an incoherent position. Because, let's remember the events of July this year when the head of the BUT faction from the Supreme Council of Ukraine said that, ladies and gentlemen, let's split the bill that I was the author of in July this year into two elements: subsistence minimum, minimum wage. We split up and it was said that the BUT faction would support the bill on raising social standards, and the minimum wage bill would be considered separately. Recall the vote that began this September 1st session. The BUT faction failed to keep its promise, so let it remain on the conscience of the faction leaders and the faction itself. I'm using data from an active government today. I call on the national deputies of Ukraine, members of the ruling coalition, to vote in favour of the subsistence minimum that the government of Timoshenko has made public.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u53	Lukyanov National Deputy, faction of the Party of the Regions. Can I ask you a question?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u54	Mr. Michael, I welcome you and your little girl. I can't even say victory, but with your perseverance, I would even say obsessiveness in upholding the rights of Ukrainian citizens. I wanted to say that these requirements are: raising the minimum pension, minimum wage, minimum wage, minimum wage, social benefits for orphans, disabled people, current authority, well, she's completely out of touch with people, she's out of conscience, she doesn't even communicate with ordinary citizens. I'm so glad you got them to talk about this right now. And I'd like to ask you, how do you feel about what they're doing right now to break this bill? They voted 418 votes in favour of your bill, then refused, failed. As you think.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u55	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! This bill, and I want to remind you of the number of our people, because, somehow, we're numbers in general, and especially the ruling coalition, they don't want to see the problem of a particular Ukrainian. We have 2 million 700,000 people with disabilities, 2 million 700,000 people with disabilities are Ukrainian citizens who need state aid. If you don't vote for this bill, you vote against people with special needs today, against people with disabilities. Today we have 240,000 orphans. You vote against orphans, you vote against many children, you vote against 13.5 million pensioners and you vote against 21 million working people. Dear Ukrainian People's Deputies, let's do the very name "nationals", let's vote for our people today, for our citizens, for our people.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u56	Vladimir Bondarenko faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u57	Vladimir Bondarenko, Timoshenko Yuli Block. Dear Mr. Reporter! We are well aware of the year 2003, when you, in the government of Yanuković and Azari, lowered social standards without consulting the Supreme Council or the people. Then the economy developed steadily, and you went this way. Today, before the election, you chose a different line of conduct. True, today we also notice that from your faction's environment there are proposals to move away from this issue immediately, because those who own metallurgy today are your deputies, the mines are your deputies, the chemical complexes are your deputies, they've cut down by a third, or even more workers, and they keep the minimum wage much lower than they are today. If you raise your salary today by law, they will release thousands more. Do you think at all about the state when you create such bills that will lead to total unemployment in the state, to the expulsion of millions of people who have passed by?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u58	Dear colleague!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u59	Please. One moment, please finish. Complete the question. Volodymyr Dmitrovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u60	I wanted to ask you, do you think by introducing such bills that thousands and thousands of new unemployed will appear? Who do you advise by this bill? Well, no one, because inflation will go unnoticed, new unemployment. Because your job is obviously to break at least the fragile state of the economy that the government is maintaining today.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u61	Dear colleague! Your information does not match the facts. I worked twice in the government of Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic. We were the first to adopt and adopt an appropriate bill, and we put the minimum pension to a level higher than the minimum of living. We have consistently stood up for our stand. We've introduced the first and second stages of the single tariff grid in order to differentiate wages, so that the salary is a motivation for people to increase their skills and their specialization in the workplace. We've raised social standards for low-income citizens. And that, you know, I was pleased to work in the government of Viktor Yanukovich, why? Because to raise pensions and wages and social assistance for our Ukrainian citizens, Viktor Fedorovich initiated himself because he knows what poverty is. And today we're initiating an increase for orphans, social assistance for pensioners, for disabled people, and we're going to stand on this until the end.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u62	Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich, please. Mikhail Mikolaiovich, you have a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u63	Dear Mikhailo Mikolaiovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u64	Mikhailo Mikolaiovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u65	Dear Mikhailo Mikolaiovich! I'm asking you to calm down. I understand you're in a holiday mood today, your bill, by the way, in the hall. Over the months, the official factions of the Ukrainian National Deputies, Kabmin society, had been forced to have some inconvenient discussion about where to take money in society to stop the extinction of the nation. In this discussion, it became clear that the authorities had never understood the essence of normalizing the process of improving social, labour and labour relations in the context of transforming society into market principles. Please tell me, is this the very discussion she might be talking about? The superficiality of understanding, the primitiveness of understanding, because it's not just about where to get the money. We are talking about the need to motivate the government to carry out a number of critical tasks that are essential?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u66	Thank you. Thank you, Reverend Jaroslav Mikhailovich! You're absolutely right. Look, the government's bringing the debate down to the fact that there's no money. That's how you get the accent right. First of all, the government has to recognize that the minimum of living in the State Budget Act is understated, and this is confirmed by the government’s published data. The other one. The government has to make changes to the State budget, bring even its figures into line to be moral, to be at least a little honest. And the government today has to say the following. Pensions are derived from wages. If we raise wages, we fill the pension fund's budget. If we raise wages, we raise pensions, we activate the consumer market. This increases the government budget in the form of VAT, in the form of excise duties, in the form of an income tax on citizens who go to local budgets. Thus, it is not easy for the government to say that there is no money. There's money. Please report to the IMF where the money went. I can see that their fate is the same as that of a metallurgical plant.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u67	Thank you, Michael Mikolaiovich. Have a seat, please. In order to present the next alternative draft of the Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2009, Pecklusenko Alexander Mikolajovic is invited. [[on increasing the size of State social standards and guarantees]] Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u68	Respectable voters! Dear colleagues! Today I want to thank all the colleagues gathered in this room for finally hearing the Party of the Regions that has blocked so long, and finally they have come to us. We wanted to achieve two things through this blockade. First. The process of discussion, and it began. The second is a vote on these bills. And I'm sure as we did the first one, we'll get a second one today. A few words about my bill. His approaches, his social platform, are exactly the same as that of our faction member, our colleague Papiev. The discrepancy between my project and Papiev's law is purely in figures. I want to stop at the numbers. In my project since September 1st, the minimum wage is 1,500 grevens and since December 1st, 1750. Of course, all of our colleagues here have asked and will ask the question of where these numbers are based. With regard to the answer to that question, there had already been some, and my parliamentary colleague, Katerinczuk, whom I do not see, called those laws populist. I specifically took and saw what the word “populism ” meant. I read: “The political position, which is polled by the vast masses, is the closest analogy of the Ukrainian people.” I want to tell you, this philosophy really suits us, and our law is based on the demands of the masses. And one more thing, the legislative framework. Let's find out, do we have a real opportunity and a need to pass this law today? Today we have an obligation to enact this law. There is the Ukrainian Minimum of Living Act and it obliges the Government of Timoshenko to review it once every five years for the first time in 2000, and this was done for the second time, respected colleagues, in 2005. Here are the protocols, please, all the documents that I have calculated are based on the documents adopted by your Government, which means that you can consider my project to be the co-author of Julius Vladimirovna Timoshenko. All right, I repeat. There is a Constitution, there is a law, and under this law a minimum consumer basket has been read and multiplied by the godless prices that your Government has today filled all markets, shops and services. Therefore, the philosophy of our project is economics and no policies. And I don't know a man with a hand up not to vote for the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u69	Please sign up for the question. Ribuk Sergey Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u70	Thank you. Dear Alexander Mikolaiovich! I pressed the "question" button because he said very faithfully that the bill's philosophy was economics. But of the 12 million pensioners, the majority live in rural areas. When it comes to economics, the law that Timoshenko then passed stipulates that on January 1st, those people who get the smallest pension in the country -- they won't be able to sell their own chicken, their own latte, and a bottle of milk on the market. [[on safety, quality of food]] So they're going to get rid of a completely left-hand share of revenue. That is, even if we achieve the rise of these pensions, wages, this law is nullifying, perhaps we should also impose a number of economic laws in parallel, including amendments to the Food Security Act. What do you think about this?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u71	I'm sure, Sergey Nikolaevich, we are often trying to bring you and me down to the level of populism in the worst sense of economic adventure. I want to say the factions of the regions, the parties of the regions are people who have been through a lot of economic work. And we have never failed a single bill in terms of motive is not a viable economy. We know for a fact that at this time, there is money in this country. Moreover, we are confident that this money is simply being prepared to do pear action and to throw that money away from a specific person within a specific time frame. It won't work! You won't play with weird. You will do what the responsible authorities have to do. If you're irresponsible, you're not in power.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u72	Pudov Boris Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u73	Yes. Dear voters! I would like to draw your attention first of all to the fact that those in the "careful fathers of the nation" have not taken any steps to put into practice all that they are proposing in their bills today. Speaking, they say in the people “a double”. I'm sorry, the target is being pursued. The objective is to ensure that the Government of Yulia Timoshenko does not meet its obligations in the current crisis to pay pensions and wages. Please tell me what prevents you from paying higher wages in your businesses, increasing the minimum wage, and not reducing thousands of employees. Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u74	I'd like to ask you a question, my dear colleague. What was your logic when you fought for a thousand dollars? Did you think about inflation then? Because it was politically beneficial to you at the time. And it was this one, the one that was nowhere to be found, that caused inflation. I mean, the seat-point determines the position. Second. I often hear in this room: “Yours, yours.” So I want to tell you and our voters, all the entrepreneurs, all the owners, all the employees, starting with Harkov, and ending in Uzhgrad, starting with Crimea and ending in Chernigov, they're all ours. We don't, unlike you strangers.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u75	Herman Hanna Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u76	Dear colleagues! I'd like to go back to the Yule Block of Timoshenko. Up to over 150 of our fellow deputies sitting in this room. Support the relief of people’s lives. Take responsibility for the difficult circumstances faced by millions of pensioners, millions of multi - child families who barely make ends meet. Do not take sin upon your soul, and do not hinder us from making life easier for people. You have a responsibility to millions of people. And I want to go to the pensioners, the people who live today for the minimum wage. Ask these people if they do not hear us vote today to raise wages and pensions, and to enter the cold and hungry winter at least by protecting millions of disadvantaged Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u77	Dear colleagues! I thank you again. And like you, I'm in the district all the time, and I hear questions a lot. Here, we need to change Parliament. What I'm responding to needs to be changed. You and I are in a good way doomed to consensus, doomed, in a good way, to join forces. And the first step in demonstrating such consensus could and should be today's draft law, today's unanimous vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, the reports have been completed. Now Oleg Lazko will be speaking from the committee with a report. Since it's four bills, I don't think we're going to have any time here, and you're going to put yourself in tight terms. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u79	Dear Volodymyr Mihajlovich, on the bill of the first colleague of Zarubinsky. [[Registration number 4762]] The Committee on Budget Issues at its meeting on 9 September 2009 reviewed the draft Ukrainian Housing Minimum and Minimum Wages Act in 2010, submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputy Oleg Alexanderovich Zarubinski, and sent the Supreme Council of Ukraine an appropriate decision on its rejection on 10 September this year. However, on September 18, a bill came to the committee to replace this issue, which significantly reduced the cost of living to the minimum and minimum wage from the previous project. Yes, on January 1st the minimum of living is proposed to set 825 dollars instead of 848, on December 1, 875 instead of 2 000 840. The corresponding decline is also anticipated for those who refer to the main social and demographic groups. The minimum wage is proposed as of 1 January 2010 to set 869 dollars instead of 900 dollars, from 1 April to 884 instead of 1 thousand 500, from 1 July to 888 instead of 2 thousand and from 1 October to 907 instead of 2 thousand 500, and from 1 December to 922 instead of 3 thousand dollars. It should be noted that the proposed draft also does not provide financial and economic justifications and proposals for expenditure to be reduced and proposed for additional revenue to cover increased expenditure. [[or]] In accordance with the requirements of article 27 of the Ukrainian Budget Code 21.09.2009, this bill has been sent to the Ministry of Finance to provide an expert opinion, so we consider the draft bill to be premature today. That's by following the Budget Code. But since the Supreme Council has made the appropriate decision to consider these bills, we are considering them. Now, about the drafts by Papiev, the honorary and colleague of Pecklusenko. These bills were not discussed in the Committee on Budget Issues because of the lack of quorum, and the quorum in the committee was not due to the lack of meeting of the Committee of Representatives of the Party of the Regions. Several times the Budget Committee has tried to gather, appointed meetings, but those who today from the Supreme Council’s rostrum so “in pain” as a national destiny did not consider it possible to appear at a committee meeting to support these bills. The last meeting was yesterday at the 15th hour, there was no quorum again because of the lack of representatives of the Party of Regions. As a result, bills have not been considered. And today, at 12 o'clock, a meeting of the Budget Committee is scheduled. If, by that time, the Supreme Council does not take appropriate decisions on these bills and there will be an appearance on the committee, we will definitely consider them today. That's all I'm authorized to report from the committee. Thank you. As for the other bills, I said, these are all that Papievka, Paklusenko, they weren't on the committee. Because of the failure to meet a committee of representatives of that political force.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, then the question to coconspirator Oleg Laska. Do you have it? Please sign up for the questions. It's a recording. Please put your names on the board. Mikhail Papiev, faction of the region. Here's your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u81	Thank you. Dear reporter, Oleg Valeriovich! Let's be honest. So you're saying you didn't come to the committee meeting, you didn't come to, you know, we had a working group set up. I've been to both the working group and the committee meeting every time. The committee you're talking about yesterday, nobody warned me, and as far as I know, there wasn't a bill in the agenda of the committee yesterday. From. So let us still inform society, not on formal grounds, but on the substance of the matter. And the point is that all of these meetings ended with one thing: an unconstructive position of government that says there is no money. When we showed where the money was, it just went to block. And if you recall, the Committee on Budgets didn't meet because the representatives of the BUIT faction didn't come to this meeting. And most of you on the committee were just you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u82	Dear Mikhail Mikolaiovich, I have to confirm that you really attended all the committee meetings. And as an eyewitness, you will confirm my words. I remember your reaction when you and I sit in the committee room and you spread your hands when I ask you, where are your one-party members? Why did they not come to uphold your law? You're just nodding your head, telling you nothing, because you understand that this law is not necessary for your party. It is necessary to tell people what they care about. And in order to take concrete steps to vote on laws that would improve the welfare of people, they don't reach that point. I would like to say separately that yesterday we received the conclusions of the Ministry of Finance on the impact on the income part of the budget, on the cost, of those bills that were proposed by the distinguished colleagues Papiev and Pecklesenk. These additional costs amount to tens of billions of dollars, which the authors do not indicate where to take. More specifically, they point out, but in rather exotic ways, for example, they're offering to pay off the wages of the Kyoto Protocol's money that ours has received.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u83	Allow me to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u84	which our country has received for the modernization of housing and utilities, energy conservation and so on. The authors suggest spending this money on a salary. The terms of the agreement between Ukraine and Japan provide that the purposeless use of the funds is to recover the funds to the country that provided them. Alexander Steshenko, faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u85	Thank you. Dear Oleg Valeriovich! I'd like to hear your opinion. It is clear that, unfortunately, the decision of the committee did not take place on the following issue. In accordance with the Constitution, the Budget Code has been submitted by the government to the draft budget. In fact, the Supreme Council has taken it into consideration, and we must act in accordance with the relevant rules of the Rules. Instead of at the right time, at least three months later, considering the issues that we are considering today, the representatives of the Party of the Regions are blocking the rostrum. Why is this happening now? I'd like to know your point of view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u86	Dear Alexander Mikolaiovich! I would like to remind you that it was at the initiative of the government of Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic that changes were made to the current legislation, which deprived the national deputies of Ukraine the right to submit bills to raise the minimum of living. This right under the initiative of the government of Yanukovic was granted to the government itself. And even from a formal point of view, neither the People's Deputy Papiew nor the People's Deputy Pecklesenko, nor any other national MP, have the right to propose to the Supreme Council these laws. This is only a government right, and the government has taken advantage of this right by passing the State Budget 2010 Act, which provides for an increase in social standards, but comes out of the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u87	Vladimir Bondarenko, faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u88	Vladimir Bondarenko, faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Dear Mr. Oleg, we've been on the budget committee with you for the past two months, and we've been meeting regularly, sometimes on standard days, sometimes in others, and we've been waiting there for at least one member of the Party of Regions and so, unfortunately, we haven't been waiting. I think that you, like me, were approached by individual MPs from this party, from this block, and asked us to draw on this question as long as possible and, practically, to knock it down. God forbid, it will be accepted, for then they will have to pay a minimum wage for which they no longer have money today. Each member of the Budget Committee knows about the specific activities of our colleagues. I would like to ask you one question, but you remember the time when the government of Yanukovich, Azarov and the distinguished predecessor, your reporter lowered the standards because they already say we don't remember, and they did what they did. Unfortunately, there was such a shameful situation when the economy grew and they worked against the people.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u89	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Dmitrovich! I don’t remember that, but I think that the case is remembered by millions of Ukrainian citizens who depend on the budget and for whom each extra penny from the budget is an opportunity to buy medicine, buy extra bread, and so forth. So let it remain on the conscience of those who have lowered these social standards when they were in power, and today, when they are in opposition, they try to prove to people that they want to raise these social standards, although, in fact, in the case of the adoption of these laws, they will not even pay what is provided by law today, because there will be no money for that.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u90	Vladimir Karpuk, faction of our Ukrainian People's Self-Defense. Then John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u91	Dear Oleg Valeriovich! Of course, we understand and many things affect all of these processes. And I think that if one or the other political power were to change their roles, that would be the same requirement. Yet, the value of the subsistence minimum is based on the consumer basket, and this consumer basket has not been reviewed since 2000. Many of these have been criticized, many have had opportunities for all governments to review the list and food products, the non-food goods and services provided to certain demographic or social groups. So you think you should go back to really looking at this consumer basket, actually calculating these needs for a minimum of living, and actually influencing the social standards that people really need. However, we have 125 categories of people with some kind of social benefits, and of course this refers to a large number of people that are in yours.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u92	Dear Volodymyr Georgiyovich! Dear colleagues! I think it's completely unpopular to talk about this before the election, especially before the presidential election. But let's say honestly to ourselves and to the country, and to the people that we're always here before every election, we're smokin' on either side or on the other side. For laws to be enforced, money must be placed under them. There's got to be a base. Recall the Law on the Children of War. They wanted to go to Parliament very much, they voted, they promised, and so far, the law is not being implemented. Because to do that, it takes at least 20 to 30 billion dollars. And we now have at least 200 billion dollars of non-implementable legislation in the country, which would require an additional 200 billion dollars. Parliament must cease to be a popular parliament. He needs to really share what he has, not share the air. A sweet life was promised before each election, and immediately after the election, these promises were forgotten. And, unfortunately, this is a sin for all the political forces represented in Parliament, which is that in the previous, which is obviously in the future. And so it will be as long as people continue to follow this lie.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u93	John the Rabbit faction "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u94	Dear reporter! Obviously, we need to raise social standards because people are falling very much. But on the other hand, we cannot accept many of the proposals that go beyond economic reality. But I'm surprised. That in this conversation we are not looking for sources to fill out the budget. No one really says that we have 50 percent of the economy in the shadow that import and export transactions take place under corrupt schemes. What does this talk about? This is saying that a lot of money is coming out of Ukraine, a lot of money is sitting in offshore areas, and that money could eventually fill the government budget, which would give us the opportunity to raise social standards. Why is your report and the reports of others not about fighting the Mafia, fighting corruption, fighting the shadow economy? Let's face it, you'll only look at the park today.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u95	Let's finish this interesting thought, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u96	Today we can look at the park in Kiev, and we will see how the internal gross product is unfairly distributed. That's why I'm addressing all of you. People are good, get out of your cars, see what is normal, natural air, not air conditioner, and become human! Let's fight the Mafia!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u97	Dear John Alexanderovich! When our colleagues from the Party of Regions blocked the work of the Supreme Council requiring the adoption of laws to raise social standards, our faction agreed to deal with these issues. We've never been against raising people's standards of living, but on one condition, this has to be a real lift, not a paper, and it doesn't actually work like dozens of other laws. We've offered our colleagues options that would allow for an additional budget of over 6 billion dollars this year, and to channel these funds towards raising the social standards of citizens' lives. Where did we propose to get this money? From cigarettes, from vodka, from other “skulls”, other increases in excise duties, when cigarettes or vodka are cheaper today than boxes of confetti or packs of ice cream. But given that the lobbyists of all these sectors are sitting in Parliament, they have refused to raise these excise duties, and as a result, people would have had the opportunity to get a higher pension by October 1st, to have a higher pension.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u98	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u99	Having a high living minimum, having an extra penny in your pocket. But because of the lobbyists sitting here in parliament, they didn't get this high cost, unfortunately!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u100	Thank you. Peter Stepanovich Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u101	Thank you. Dear reporter! Communist faction Peter Cibenko, head of the Ukrainian Veterans Organization You know, when you reported to the committee on this issue, the situation on the committee, I feel so relieved that you sighed when you said, “There are no committee members, but there is no decision.” You know, and you know, and I've witnessed that when the committee needed a decision, give it a word, the hospital brought it, on the stretcher, and the polling method you made the decision. I have the impression that the budget committee is simply not interested in taking this decision in support of the position, but in being a veteran whose pension today accounts for a minimum of 498 bracelets, what he should do, what he should do with a lying economy, what he should do with those prices that have gone bad and are already rising slowly. That's why the committee is set to make decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u102	Dear Peter Stepanovich, seven times we have tried to gather together for one purpose to consider bills that raise the social standards of life of citizens. Seven times. So to say that the committee isn't interested in considering these bills, there's no reason for that. And today at 12 o'clock, we're having another committee meeting. I call on all members of the Budget Committee from different factions to come to this meeting, on the third floor of the building under the dome, to consider all the bills that are scheduled for today at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u103	Honorable colleagues, reports, and co-reports have been delivered. Now the announcement. Members of the Counting Commission, please gather in five cabinets, here, in this corps. He is now asking for the words of Vladimir Makarovich Matviychuk of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and then we will continue to consult. Please, not more than 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u104	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Of course, you have a decision to make. I would just like to draw your attention to such problems in connection with these bills. The Ministry of Finance calculated nine bills in the form of draft laws and draft decrees of the Supreme Council. Additional expenditures in 2010 under these bills amount to between 70 billion and 500 billion dollars compared to 2009. At the revenue of the 2009 budget, 290 billion dollars. Additional expenditures on the draft budget range from 40 billion to 470 billion dollars in all these bills. In times of crisis, many countries in the world have reduced wages. The government has not followed this path this year, nor is it proposed to reduce wages, pensions, aid. On the contrary, the draft budget allows them to be indexed by the inflation index. This represents an additional 30 billion dollars compared to 2009. I don't understand. The government is being criticized for populism in this number ratio?Oh, my God! Dear national deputies, it is not possible to fund additionally in the following year between 40 and 470 billion dollars at the expense of non-inflationary sources. Financing can only be done on the basis of: increasing budget deficits, increasing inflation, translating into children and grandchildren of current debt, increasing unemployment, and this is a sin against the Most High, and people. None of the bills to raise economically unwarranted payout crises support the pooling of employers. They do not support the union of employers who claimed that they would be forced to shut down businesses, or to release up to 20 percent of the workers who are currently employed. And the last. The draft budget is submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. There is a proposal, honourable Vladimir Mikhailovich, to ask the drafters to submit additional bills to the Supreme Council's Rules and to show against the draft budget, which has been submitted, the sources of additional costs, the financing of additional costs. And then, after considering the proposals made by the honourable initiators of the bill, vote in the session room. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u105	Dear National Deputies! Reports, reports completed. The position of the Cabinet of Ministers towards your knowledge has been proven. I'm asking you to sign up for a faction discussion, and then directly from the Ukrainian national deputies. Please record. And now we're going to consult about the break. Let's make a record to see what kind of painting we have. Please, there's a recording, please log in. Well, there's going to be a break now, so let's sign up and see who we have. Yeah, everybody's got a record? Please put on board the name of the national MPs who signed up to discuss the drafts. Seven people, no, much more, I'm watching. Dear National Deputies! Dear colleagues! Our information service is asking for a re-write because something didn't work. Well, Your Honor, let's do it now. Here you go. Let's do it first, take it down, please don't rush. Now let's do it this way. It's a faction entry. Let's light it up on the board, and then we'll record it from the people's deputies. No objections? Writing for factions, please log in. Please put the names of the national MPs on the board. Yavorowski, Hara, Baranov, Kirilenko, Cibenko Now, please record for the national MPs. It's a recording. Please put your names on the board. You see, we had a recording. Dear colleagues! Are we going to keep working now or are we going to take a break? A break? Please be on break for up to 12 hours for 35 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u106	Dear National Deputies! Let's get back to work. Let's move on to the factions. Vladimir Yavorowski. Who will act? Ivan Grigorovitch Kirilenko – from the BUT faction, Basil Hara – from the faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u107	Dear colleagues! Honorable Chairman and Honourable Voters! First of all, I want to apologize to the drafter of the bill as a member of the coalition for not being able to support the bill even a member of the coalition. I won't say again. And I'm not talking about the laws that have been tabled by the opposition. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I address you as presiding officer. When there's a vote by hand, the faction, you see, in the hall, the faction works, but to save time in voting, as we did in the election vote of the government and the prime minister, please our faction will not vote for these bills, so don't even raise our MPs, we won't vote for any of these bills. Next. Next. Dear colleagues! Dear voters! We're for raising social standards. We're for promotion. We're here to support people in these difficult circumstances, to support the least protected sections of the population, but like a month ago, as well as two weeks ago, as well as a year ago, we're proposing calculated, agreed, reasoned proposals on this. Do you remember the end of the past and the beginning of this year? You and I have not voted in this room on 16 bills that fill the income portion of the budget and the Pension Fund. They're not popular. I understand that supporting them in this room is for some people to step on their own songs, and for some to lose voter votes, electorate, but for some, how to redistribute between rich and poor, for others, there are no other states of the world in these conditions. Tell me, what's wrong with the real estate tax bill? During these years, four million homes have developed new Ukrainian nationalities, over 500 square feet [500 sq m] or more. How hard is it to pay 6 dollars a square metre once a budget and share with the poor? We didn't even support inclusion in the living room. Not the poor people built these houses. Is it wrong to impose a slightly higher tax than today on the owners of the Mercedes? They didn't even support inclusion in the agenda. Dear colleagues, that's 10 billion of the real cost that these 16 bills give. Why didn't they? They've found 10 billion, please 10 -- we're distributing. Today, proposals that are uncalculated are populist. They destroy the state's financial system, they destroy the economy, they destroy the state from the inside. Just as the minister of finance was performing his duties, he sounded numbers. Think about it, he didn't say the prime numbers. He said the price of the question is up to 400 billion, up to 470 billion is the cost of the budget. Now listen to the figures: salary in the 2009 budget area -- 95 billion dollars, 160 billion dollars of the Pension Fund. Count the amount, that's 250 billion -- the social sphere, pensioners and budgeters. Today, individual bills are proposed to increase expenditure by 470 billion. Well, let's face it, are we crazy, are we thinking of doing something in this state? Colleagues, what's going on? So let's write it down, this is a printer that we're going to put in three changes. And then the experts figured out what could happen in this case? How many times will the prices go up? Inflation will eat the 100 bracelets that we added to the specific pensioners. Inflation will eat because prices will grow, don't we understand that? Don't we understand that bracelets are over? What's going to start to multiply zeros in geometric progress? Well, how many of these arguments can you say, dear colleagues? The choices of life do not end. After the election, someone in this country should be in charge. Next. No matter who does, no matter who says it won't, in a particular economy, they're going to have to increase their wages on the tariff grid. And there, excuse me, 370 billion of us have an annual wage fund in all areas, so you understand, two thirds is the wage in a particular economy. If there's 470 billion in the budget, how much in the particular economy do we have to add? Experts estimate that unemployment will grow to 20 percent by modest calculations. By the 20th! During a state of war, for everyone to understand, during a state of war unemployment may be 12 percent. What is 20? It's a collapse in the country. Kolaps! Well, what do we want? Well, we're good people! Three months from now, the presidential campaign's going to end, and I don't call it anything else. It's crazy. Well, after that, the country needs to live and work, colleagues! Well, are we going to vote these things? I won't give you any more arguments. I want to apologize once again to a coalition member, the drafter, to the voters: we are for raising social standards, and the government is doing this in the next year's budget, calculating, doing this. At the same time, by increasing 20 percent to doctors, teachers, the least protected population, pensioners. And at the same time, our opponents call the budget populist. Colleagues, when does three times the cost go up, and what is that? It's madness or frost, I'm sorry! People already realize that thanks are needed for whatever stability there is, for whatever course stability there is, for whatever price stability there is. What can happen tomorrow after a positive vote is hard to imagine! And once again, I'm calling the chairman, the faction will not vote, so please don't waste your time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u108	National MP Hara from the Party of Regions, please invite you to the presentation. Valerius Baranov will speak later.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u109	Dear colleagues, first of all, I want to respond to the statement by Oleg Lazko, a respected MP, one of the most important murderers of the Yulia Timoshenko faction, who accused the faction of the Party of the Regions and the Government of Yanuković of all its sins. I would like to say the first: I took the opportunity of the people's deputies to establish a minimum of living, not by the Government of Yanuković, but by the Government of Timoshenko on 31 March 2005, amending the Trade Unions Act. on the minimum of subsistence. It had previously been adopted by the Supreme Council before the start of the budgetary process and was a social norm and had to be included in the budget. As a result of the changes that Timoshenko had adopted at the Supreme Council, the subsistence minimum was adopted with the draft budget and it was made available to the budget. I would like to remind you that, on a number of occasions, including this year with my colleagues from the Suhim faction, Stojan has passed a bill to restore the living minimum status quo, but unfortunately, the coalition has blocked its acceptance and we have what we have. With regard to social parameters, this is addressed again to the Government of Timoshenko, who, in 2005, as Prime Minister, had ignored the Housing Minimum Act and had not approved a new list of goods, products and services approved by the Scientific and Social Council. That would be the only way to bring the subsistence minimum closer to a more real one today. It is Timoshenko's fault that we are using the normative base of 2000. The list of products, goods and services has not been revised since 2000. And that is precisely why today's subsistence minimum is twice what it should be. That is why the 2010 draft budget has a living minimum of 681 bracelets, with the official Cabinet of Ministers of Poverty 778 bracelets. Accused of blocking the rostrums by the Party of the Regions is also inappropriate. First, the aim is to establish legal social norms in accordance with the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. Second, not by law. At the level, we have mitigated our demands and we propose to establish a living minimum of the actual minimum of 811 dollars per person per person, according to Mintruda's data to date. [[This is an official message from the Ministry of Labour, they say, on 18 September]] And Papiev Mikolaevich's project is based on these data from the Ministry. Third. What other mechanism can you propose to influence the opposition to power? Fourthly, I recall the faction of Yulia Timoshenko has blocked the work of the effectively working Parliament of the Government of Yanukovic and, with the support of the President, has plunged the country into the chaos in which we are to this day. Now, basically, the bill. The faction has decided to support any rise in social standards. Everyone! We are prepared to vote on the Lithuanian Block Bill, although there are social norms far below those that, I repeat, have been objectively established for today and presented by the faction of the Party of the Regions. Let's see what happens as a result of the game, the show or the positive vote in the first and second readings as we propose. Every faction today will show its face. One faction leading has already shown itself to be the Timoshenko Block, which has refused to vote even for the minimum increase in social standards. I just want to say one more thing. The Cabinet of Ministers and Minfin, which sings one sad sad song a year: there is no money to raise social standards, there is no money in the budget. Duraku understands that the task of any Government is to organize the economy in such a way as to earn money for the people, to raise salaries, pensions, scholarships and social benefits. Otherwise, what else can we do to take power, other than to hold on to the power of power, as is being done by the present authority? Remember, more than the successful work of the Government of Yanukovic in 2004, and in 2006. When an anti-crisis programme of the Party of the Regions was implemented from August to January and economic, financial and social crises and other crises were eliminated, and development began, the country's development, which Timoshenko and Yushchenko once again did not like, and they destroyed the coalition. The Government was dispersed, and then the economy, the social sphere, and more. The faction of the Party of the Regions calls upon all members of the people to support, if not a bill of the faction of the Party of the Regions, the Zarubinsky Bill and help to make people's lives easier. For the faction of the Party of the Regions, the main one is social protection. And last of all, Vladimir Mikhailovich. In connection with the statement made by the leader of the Timoshenko faction that the faction of the Party of the Regions had refused to vote in favour of the bill in the usual manner. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u110	Valery Baranov, Lithuanian Block faction. Then, Mikola Martinenko ChiVyacheslav Kirilenko, find out among yourselves. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u111	Honourable MPs and voters! Today, we are seeing a socialist competition between the two groups and the audiences of people who have already been in power, and today in power, and whose efforts have not been changed at the time, nor today: neither in the work of the economy, nor in attracting investment, nor in tax policy, nor in medicine, nor in social policy, nor in housing, nor in housing, nor in them at all. Therefore, today we see that some accuse others, others accuse the first to bring the situation to absurdity and deceive voters by making us love you more than before in order for you to vote for us in these elections. It seems to me that the wages and pensions that we have today are the very outcome of the work of each and the other and the outcome of the work has proved ineffective, neither of us nor of the others have been able to change anything. Today we all realize that there is no money, the economy does not work, and soon there will be no money. Therefore, these sufferings, self - abuse and accusations of each other seem ridiculous and misleading to all our societies. The crisis of governance and economic collapse is the outcome of both. To convince the participants that someone's rights are greater, and someone less useless, stupid and stubborn will be on their own. I want to address the citizens! Respectable voters! Do not believe those who are “suffering for your happiness” in Mercedes or in the blocked rostrum. It won't come out of it, it won't come out, it won't come out in the future! Both sides have shown themselves, and they have nothing to do with it, no matter how hard they try. In the elections, choose pragmatists, not political soloists, who have already been fed to everyone from both the Supreme Council’s rostrums and from televisions and rallies. You know, society needs jobs, not fortune tellers. When Dad drinks in the family and no one works anymore, and her mother-in-law demands that she buy a new coat, it looks ridiculous and ridiculous. That's why Dad needs to be forced to work, and the mother-in-law has to be expelled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u112	Viacheslav Kirilenko, faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. Then Peter Stepanovich Cibenko will speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u113	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “For Ukraine” MP. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! I will make a statement from the point of view of the faction, above all the deputies who belong to the Za Ukraine MP group, but not only these deputies. First. We believe that a two-month standoff did not benefit any elector, whether he favors the Party of Regions or he favors the Party of the ruling coalition. A two - month standoff showed that irresponsibility, unfortunately, and politics continued to dominate Ukrainian politics and in this room in particular. Because we believe that there are the same benefits in Parliament as Block Tymoshenko and the Party of Regions. We believe that participation in the presidential election race of the leaders of these political forces dictates, unfortunately, not the logic of responsibility, but the logic of opposition and conflict. In doing so, this logic has exceptions when it comes to the allocation of large budgets. Then the posters that are still behind the speaker are forgotten, and the distribution of funds that are public in nature begins. Once this difficult procedure has been completed for them and the people’s incomprehensible procedure, the opposition is renewed. I've come up with a thousand times before this question: why weren't we in July-August and in early September were we able to do this in a calm manner in plenary session mode, weighing all the pros and cons, in the debate mode, to discuss all the issues that we are actually discussing right now? Why have tens of millions of tax payers been thrown into the wind to secure the work of this hall, to light it up, to drive the deputies, to move them, to print tons of paper that is then thrown into the urn, to pay for the work of the apparatus, and so on? Why is all this politics around social standards happening at the expense of the electorate? And the answers to that question will probably not be found in the near future as long as politics dominates. How else can we assess the approaches that the parties are demonstrating? When a government party claims that up to 500 billion Ukrainian bracelets are needed in some cases to implement the opposition bills. The government's budget for the next year, if I'm not mistaken, the consolidated has an income of 379 billion dollars, and we're already afraid of what 500 is. Obviously not true. Others offer a minimum wage now at 1,700 dollars. There's a question about 2003, about 2004. Why, then, when a minimum wage was reduced in power? And now that the leader is in opposition, he says: “People must live today. Of course they should. But people must live no matter who is in charge of the government of the ruling coalition or the presidency, and that will be the democracy, justice and rightfulness of our country. Unfortunately, we don't have that yet. On the contrary, we are witnessing a situation where it doesn't matter how the bill on pension and salary increases is introduced, and it doesn't matter how much, it's only important who introduces the bill. Whether the first is the opposition that has its candidate for the Presidents, or whether the leader of the coalition will be ahead and will be the first to raise minimum social standards. [[And she's the Prime Minister.]] Yes, first of all, these promotions will cost nothing. And secondly, this is another example of an irresponsible approach to the real, realistic problems of voters. Because if it were different, we would have long witnessed the work of the working group, which has been repeatedly called upon by the deputy group “For Ukraine” led by the Prime Minister and which would have long ago worked on a realistic increase in wages and pensions, coming out of the scope of the Ukrainian State budget for this year 2009. At the same time, no step has been taken by the government on this subject. Because there is a nutritious ground to continue blocking and resisting. It is clear, then, that social issues have long become a different coin in the hands of politicians. We are convinced that the practice of dealing with these issues will be the same. Let's start with the year 2004. Then Prime Minister Viktor Janukovic suddenly found the funds and increased the pension to pensioners, greatly increased by a few decades. Clearly, it was a populist step before the elections. But what's different about the current approach when in the 2010 budget, dozens of allowances, which are not known how and how they will be provided for the budget, are already foreseen. So these are the same taxes? So it's the same populism, and it's the same vote buying that was demonstrated in 2004, as a result of manipulations, not by its own public, national budget. So the quality of Ukrainian politics over the past five years, unfortunately, has not changed. But I am convinced that this is not only the fault of the ruling coalitions of the last time, but also the opposition that does not behave as part of the legislative authority, but acts as something that has come from the outside and is trying in any way to make unrealistic decisions. So we are looking forward to working together with the government, and together with the opposition, regardless of the presidential campaign, on the systemic changes in the economy. Why so many economists who are in both political powers, and in our own anymore, have failed to make systematic changes to the Tax Code, real anti-trade laws, real measures to make corruption impossible for officials in both the West and the East. But because irresponsibility dominates under number one plus the external order -- stability in the country and economic reforms are not beneficial to anyone. We therefore conclude that, because life is more expensive and it is necessary to respond to what is happening in citizens' wallets, and the government is moving away from this problem, today we are making a decision, at least as part of the parliamentary group “For Ukraine!” for the bill tabled by members of the ruling coalition, namely, colleague Zarubinski, to vote! To demonstrate that the issue of raising social standards needs to be moved out of place, and these payments must be actually raised and shown that this restricts parliamentary activity, only by this, is still not possible, because it is necessary to demonstrate a responsible transition in front of people and Ukraine every day. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u114	Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, Communist faction
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! Communist faction, Peter Cibenko, head of the Ukrainian Veterans Organization. You know, we're looking at a very important question today. I am absolutely convinced that not only those of us sitting in this room today, but also millions of Ukrainian citizens of the media, the government lobby is constantly thinking that increasing social standards is populism, that increasing social standards is a crime that can't be done. You know, if you call it a crime, make it look today that nothing happens around social standards is three times a crime. What do I mean? You know the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the last period of several convocations, in a good sense, taught voters that the minimum of living is not just changing annually, but it is increasing quarterly. And that's right. At present, there is a general understanding of the social standards of savagery. I want to remind the voters and some of the colleagues in this room that the subsistence minimum that was approved as early as October 1, 2008, is actually working, let's say, a year. During this time, the only thing that happened in the part of the pension changes is the only single payment, the so-called pension index, which was made on April 1, 2009, in the amount of 7 dollars. Somebody got seven bucks, and most of them didn't. This is all that was done during the year. If anyone felt that Ukrainian citizens were receiving too many pensions today, I want to say no. I could call that statistics. Today, of the 14 million pensioners in Ukraine, 10 million, 75 percent receive a pension of between 500 and a thousand. Three quarters of all pensioners. For this category, the average pension is 670. This is for those who think that the pension situation is normal. Once again, I want to emphasize that to pretend that nothing is happening is three times a crime. And now for prices and tariffs. What is happening in this regard? Please see the price index between August 2009 and August 2008. The overall consumer price index is 115 per cent, including housing, water, electricity, gas and other fuels — 128 per cent, housing maintenance — 123 per cent, health care — 130 per cent, drug cost — 140 per cent, transportation — 119 per cent, postal services — 150 per cent. This is because the subsistence minimum, namely the subsistence minimum for the unemployed, has been placed at the base of the citizens' pension, has not changed in any way in a year. I'll tell you more, since the Supreme Council is in Kiev, I'd like to ask my colleagues here and ask them: "Please tell the honourable citizens of Kiev, the veterans who live here in Kiev, when Kyivrada, did Mr. Chernewsky raise the subway fares four times, you've been asked if you have money or not?" When the rent was tripled for residential services, you were asked, veterans, invalids, do you have any money to pay? They probably didn't ask. Today, it is said that there is no money in the government, so be patient. Excuse me, by the way, if the state doesn't have any funds, that's, by the way, an estimate of the government's activity, because there's got to be money in the state. So, in summarizing my statement, I would like to say that the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in a good sense, is doomed to accept it, to support the increase in social standards. What's the increase? This is already the subject of voting on specific bills that are in the Supreme Council. I would like to say on behalf of the faction of the Company of Ukraine that we will support all the bills that we have. Because we have to understand that. And we have to take responsibility for the needs of the citizens. And one more question. In order for this to increase the living minimum, the wages, and something else to be done, well, as it were, with a single shot: we raised and the prices ate, the faction of the UK Company would insist that at the same time the decision to increase social standards would have to be made on the freezing of prices. Otherwise, we've been through this before, when we haven't been able to get a higher salary or higher pensions, and prices have already gone to the gene. There is only one way to link prices, tariffs, wages and pensions, which is to make joint decisions on raising social standards and on freezing prices and tariffs. Only in this way can we really protect our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u116	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the factions are over. Let us move on to the speeches of the Ukrainian national deputies. Dmitry Pritika gives Jaroslav Sukhima the right to speak. The next one will act. In accordance with the Rules. I propose, fellow Members, that we now consider an extremely sensitive and important document to follow the full procedure. So we have an hour, as required by the Rules. Vladimir Bondarenko, instead of his colleague Trinduk, will be next. Five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u117	Dear colleagues! I'm on the Social Policy Committee, not the first call. And let's face it, in this sessional room, on this rostrum, there were certainly discussions, there were hot debates, there was voting and there was voting, but there was this feeling of unpleasant rainfall that I had after today's conversation, there never was. For months, society has demonstrated some superficial and primitive understanding of the essence of social policy, especially those deep and dynamic processes of improving socio-working relationships in the transition period, when we are all called upon to minimize at the legislative level the negative social consequences of the transition of our economy and the whole structure of life into market principles. I'll tell you, if it's a misunderstanding of social policy, it's no big deal, people will learn. But I think we were deliberately forced to have this kind of discussion in that direction. Do you have the moral right to make such demands? Remember, you were wearing your own glasses and hats until recently. It doesn't make people feel any better. Tell me where to get the money. These stories about hundreds of billions of bracelets don't seem to be scary anymore, they're just funny. If there is no place to take money, what is such a smoldering authority that you cannot provide not only the work force but also the basic survival based on physiological standards? And the third. I'd like to ask your colleagues, from the BUT faction, you don't want to provoke us, you don't have to talk about parachutists and greenhouses, or people who sit in your faction can't lead an industrial enterprise to raise wages, because it doesn't depend on their bad character, not on their value. Why can't we raise wages today? Because in the conditional unit of expenditure, GDP is dominated by the cost of goods and services. How else can we get the government to deal with the energy supply, why is the work of the Zaporozhye Aluminum Combine, those cheap-magnesium combination, "Equineazot" stopped today? Why did it stop? It stopped artificially because such a price for electricity and gas was set by the government that these industrial enterprises were not working. Now, tell me, how much does a non-working enterprise pay? Zero. How much of this zero is counted on pension payments -- zero, and on social benefits -- zero. The other one. Import-mute adventure, summer 2008, the government stops expert oil sales operations, Ukraine comes first in the world to produce and sell sunflower oil. Not to the sunflower, we've bypassed Argentina and Russia, banning an oil expert has led to terrible losses in this field and the underreach of dollars in our foreign exchange market. One more. This bank-currency swap has led to the fact that it is impossible to take credit today. So this is where energy is dominated, the percentage of bank credit, the taxes that are constantly increasing, what's the tax on supposed profits? Amortizational deductions of 8-10 percent to put us together here could have been one determination that we would have recognized before the Ukrainian people: the underprivileged are social standards. They're underprivileged. What should we do? Adopt some kind of bill or the whole anti-crisis program. Then we'd be grouped together. So we raise real numbers, you tell us where to get the money. You tell this to that woman you've been conspiring for 130 bucks a month three years after looking after a child or 167 bucks for a single mom. Blackberry is 120 bucks a year. That's how happy he is. He's got the opportunity to buy a medicine. Veterans have long been deprived of medicines in pharmacies free of charge for prescriptions, medicine in the squad. The health system needs to be reformed. We know these resources, we know what they are. We need to work together with you to motivate the government, and the coalition would encourage the government to engage in the real sector of the economy. Because I'm going to remind you right now in 2005, when this is when the methodological collapse of the basic sectors of the nation's agriculture started, and then the preferences lost both the metallurgy and the automobile, and the aircraft building, and the shipbuilding, and the agricultural machinery, and we came into the world crisis unprepared. We have reserves, we have resources. I ask everyone to unite around what Ukraine is in crisis, and we need to help the poor first. Vote for the Zarubinsky bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u118	Vladimir Dmitrovich Bondarenko, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. The next one will be the Final One.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u119	Vladimir Bondarenko, Timoshenko Yuli Block. My predecessor's paphos surprises me. I would like to point out that, during the cadence of one government or another, the leader of this political power has never raised any standards. And isn't that surprising to you, gentlemen of the region, that, having a stable world economy at the time, you were selling and earning your billions. Mr. Ahmedov has become more expensive, they say, by tens of times, and has become the owner of 30 billion, with three in the beginning. That's interesting. How did this happen, and what standards were observed there? But I'm a historian for one of my educations, and I've been a historian and I'm used to looking back and analyzing events. [[Then I became a lawyer.]] I mean, if you look at the thought tactics of the Bolsheviks and the practices of the Bolsheviks in 1917, the level of their demands to the then royal first, and later to the Russian government, was extremely high and exceeded the possibilities several times. It was a special tactic that led to the collapse of a huge state, in fact to the evil order that was there, the establishment of revolutionary events, the Civil War and the destruction of hunger, in the cold, in the wars of the next tens of millions of people, including 14 million Ukrainians. I think the same goal is set today. The same reds require today's rise to the invisible heights of these standards, and the white-blues want to continue it with national warfare. Because if their leaders who own businesses today do not want to raise taxes, they are slowing down this society today. In order for the bracelet to cost nothing, so you can go to the store just to see dozens of zeros in commodity prices, that's what you do. So I'd like to turn you back to that distant story and that recent story. Look what your minister did in 2003, who was then in charge of the Ministry of Labour and Social Protection, and today he passed this wild bill. It was at that time that a bill was introduced that reduced it from 237 bracelets to 205 bracelets. Why was he then downgrading, and today he is seeking a promotion? Obviously, the motives were the ones I was talking about. Then he was in charge and he had to be balanced to show that he was actually the leader, and today he's actually an economic and financial provoker for the destruction of the state. In 2006, in the first quarter of 2007, you had the opportunity to raise social standards, and you didn't raise them. You're demanding today when the world's economic crisis, and Ukraine barely endures this crisis, and it endures with dignity, I would say. And I'm hearing here some of the motives of the individual political forces that want to put everyone on the same ruler and say that they're all the same and the government of Ukraine, and those who are struggling with it today. Obviously, those, although small but real achievements of the government that they are today can also be attributed to both. These are probably the regions that have destroyed the aircraft. And in my home district, actually, the airline went bankrupt, and in Kharkiv, it went bankrupt. Today, the aviation industry of Ukraine is rising. She's got funding, she's got an order. Today, Libya ordered airplanes for us. That's right, you ordered, you took the money, and you're counting on the government of Julia Timoshenko. Today there are dozens of orders from other Asian countries and from Russia. And the aviation industry is rising. You know, there's a program to build a huge number of mines. For the first time in the history of an independent Ukraine, the reconstruction of boilers and energy conservation began. This is the first time that the government has attached 26 billion cubic meters of gas to it, and we're not shaking before the cold winter with those three billion, as you did when your current faction member came into contact with the neighbouring government, we've created some kind of weird structure called RosUkre Energo, which was taking 197.5 dollars of gas in Russia, and we've reselled $540 to Europe. Where did the margin go? Hence, the government of Julia Timoshenko is being criticized on the one hand and on the other. I want to say and draw your attention to the synchronism of the actions of those who say that they are all the same and those who are breaking up and breaking government policy today. I would not want Ukraine to take the path that the world proletariat leader Lenin drew today. And today, new linens, those that may not have read it like Ahmatov or listened to the music of Gulak-Artemowski, today they dictate how we go. No! No! We'll follow a calm path of survival into crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u120	The People's Deputy of the Final transfers the right to speak to Michael Chechtev. You're going to perform, aren't you? Mikhailo Chechetov, please. Prepare the National Deputy of Synic.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u121	Dear friends, when you and I were elected to Parliament, people voted for us as potential MPs, linked with us the hope of improving our lives for the better, the hope of raising our wages, pensions, social benefits, and improving social protection. Some simply believed that the mission was better carried out by communists, voted in favour of communists: others believed that this noble mission was better carried out by regionals – voted in favour of the Party of the Regions: third in favour of Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense; fourth in favour of the Block of Lithuania; and fifth in favour of the BUT faction. But once again, by voting for us in Parliament, people have associated with us the hope of improving their lives. And we didn't make any promises. All the political forces had signed notes and made promises that raising the social standard of life would be an issue for Parliament. Dear colleagues, today is the moment of truth. The time has come to pay the people for the social bills signed by us in the past elections. The Party of Regions is committed to its commitments, and in the context of the global economic and financial crisis, which has been exacerbated by the unprofessional actions of the Government, which has led to the extreme impoverishment of the Ukrainian people, we have taken the initiative to raise social standards, pensions, wages, and at least to protect people in a price vacuum when people fail to get used to the price. Prices change with the speed of sound. And in that situation, the government suddenly and the ruling coalitions refused to fulfil their social promises, and forgot about the social promises with which they went to the elections, motivated by the lack of money today. But you'll excuse me. As a result of each month, after each quarter, we hear the winning relationship of Yulia Timoshenko that the budget has been implemented and exceeded. Ukraine didn't know about a financial and credit card like this year. We have received $2.5 billion of foreign exchange loans throughout the history of Ukraine. This year it's 10 billion. Four times as many as the previous 18 years! That's 8.5 billion to 85 billion bracelets! At least six of them have been given social protection! They say they've blown it up. But that's your problem, Yushchenko and Timoshenko, who's been cracking up or who's got money in the election box! That's why I want to thank people from this rostrum. A group of regions have travelled to the county. We consulted people and asked if we were right to insist on raising social standards in order to protect you in any way? People said, right, stand in that position. I would therefore like to thank the people that, thanks to your support today, they have forced the ruling coalition and the current power to start considering social protection issues. I would like to believe that the result of the vote today would not be another deception of people acting in power in terms of social protection. But, unfortunately, another lie is likely to happen today, as the ruling coalition has specifically changed the voting procedure so that the consideration of salary and pension increases will again end with a further haze and a slap on the ears of the common people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u122	People's MP Blue, please. People's deputy, Sinic. Please, the Lukyan People’s Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u123	Respectable citizens! I'm not talking to President Yushchenko right now, I'm not talking to Mrs. Timoshenko, who can solve these issues. I'm not talking to this sales coalition that spends tens of billions of dollars on misunderstood programs. I'm talking to ordinary citizens. There is one question, one criterion. And this criterion is very simple. Would you like to live better now or not? Everyone can now say, after thinking about himself, about his family, about his children, about how life in that country changed. I want to say that in this year, which has not yet ended, our nation's sovereign debt has increased to more than $30 billion. Over 30 billion dollars were borrowed in the internal market. It was just printed money. If only a penny could reach the common people? No, it's not. We now see Timoshenko's budget, which has been introduced to Parliament. This budget is an explosive mixture of lies, cynicism and the smile of the common people. They did all they could to get the common people on their knees to lose the opportunity to pay for their dwellings, to dress normally even so that people would live in hunger, in poverty, in poverty. These are the results of the government of Mrs. Timoshenko and her coalition. Today, the Party of Regions has relied on this authority and has come to consider a bill to raise pensions, wages, and a minimum wage. In this room, we have made sure that the Supreme Council raises the issue of raising social benefits for orphans, single mothers. And what do we see? We can see that these people are making up different excuses, doing everything they can to keep a simple person from getting a penny. But we're going to do everything we can to see the faces of these people who are going to vote for the promotion, for the improvement of your life, and who is going to hide, like Syrko, the eyes, and not make that small contribution that they all have to make in this room today, right here. And I urge you to watch and evaluate every politician, every deputy, every political force as it supports these bills today. Look and decide, you decide the fate of this state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u124	Roman Tkac gives the right to speak to Vyezimir Mikhailovich. Please. BobiIov will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u125	Vladimir Vyezowski, “Our Ukraine”, a parliamentary group “For Ukraine!” I would like to draw the attention of our radio and television audiences, and there are those present in the hall to agree with some positions or, if not, they will be able to correct them. Today, there has been a great deal of emotional, emotional, constructive, and unconstructive proposals for raising or not raising minimum social standards for Ukrainian citizens. I'd like to say something in another key, because I've seen it here in the Supreme Council, when some of those who represent the most important business interests in this country have blocked this rostrum, and others that might not have that much paraho. Not so many have steamboats and factories, but they have been able not to come to the Social Policy and Labour Committee meetings and to break a number of bills aimed at ensuring that Ukrainians live decently in this state and to block the work of the Social Policy and Labour Committee. These are representatives of the Yulia Timoshenko Block, and citizens should also know that you can block work here, and you can block work on committees. Next. On the eve of the presidential election, we see today's crackdown on pain for the interests of Ukrainian citizens. It is because of this crash that we can look at the prism of what is being done in the session room that is no different. One works, the other listens to Ukrainian citizens, in fact, what we've already seen is the blocking or the work of the session hall, or the blocking of committee work. On the way out. And on the way out, it's a simple thing. Why were there actions to block the rostrum? First of all, we are the opposition and we must be counted. And in a very specific way, you're at the budget, and you've got something to steal from it, and we've got to do everything we can to have access to that budget. That's why there's such a blockage. And that's confirmed. As soon as the question arose that the boys were also allowed to put their hands in the State Budget, and they found understanding on the queued nightcapita, they immediately agreed to unlock the rostrum and vote for the 10 billion Euros that were not actually to be hit by the poorest. Because when there's no 10 billion in the budget, there's a machine involved, and the Party of Regions knows about it. When the machine is included, the most affected ranks of Ukrainians suffer the most. We understand this, and we realize that during inflation, not the Mercedes are expensive, but the grain is expensive, the bread is expensive, the milk is expensive. That's what the Party of Regions knows, but they've agreed on a 10 billion-dollar pitch on the Euro, they've unlocked, they've come, they've voted. What's more, there's the President's veto. If we normally put 10 billion among each other -- the two largest oligarchic groups -- we can beat the President's veto. The case goes to the next. We are looking forward to a vote in this Ukrainian budget room, a little more than 10 billion on Euro 2012. Again, the question: will the first oligarchy faction in this Supreme Council be related to that money, or not? And that's why the price is as high as possible. And in the 2010 budget, seeing the guys sitting here under the blue flags also caused us to block this rostrum. Another thing is, if they were seriously hurt for citizens, for how they should live next year, they have a representative of the most powerful trade in Ukraine, who still has some silence and pain for Ukrainian citizens. I want to ask you, there is, unfortunately, there is an important head of the trade union here, Harry, where his demonstrations are to review those standards that, before the government of Yulia Timoshenko, could be reviewed by Yanukovich. Sadly, though, he did not do so. Now I don't see the same protest rallies under the current Cabinet of Ministers, so that, in fact, as existing legislation requires, once every five years, and that's almost the second term since 2000, to look at, really, that consumer basket and then prove, not in words, but in fact, that we are trade unions and the Party of Regions are hurting for our common cause. So I would like to address you first, citizens of Ukraine. I understand the opposition -- both the authorities that were driving -- that's what they were doing. And in fact, in the evenings, the budget and everything else can be written down in this state. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u126	The national deputy Bobylov is delegating the right to speak to the national deputy Ariev. Please, Vladimir Igorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u127	Dear colleagues! Today we're looking at a fairly sharp rise in social standards, which, in principle, in a normal society that normally develops and where there is a normal policy, would probably be a good thing. And first of all, I'd like to remind you of a story that happened in Germany. When the crisis began, what did the VAT-HSS Social Democrats coalition do when it was necessary to release money from the budget to save the country from the crisis for systemic reforms? They've lowered social standards. And that was the question that was necessary at the time that there was a German state interest. What do we have today? Let's just take a quiet look. For example, let's imagine that we've adopted these laws today, and we've raised a sharp and minimal pension, and a minimum wage, and a minimum wage. Now, wonderfully, the paper tolerates everything. Now let's fill in some of these data points. How can these indicators be filled? To fill them, you need money. Today, according to one bill from the Party of Regions, 37 billion dollars is needed to fill these figures, another about ten billion dollars. Let's think about where to get them. And take them for today, actually, not from anywhere. So two choices: either they have to be printed, which will immediately lead to an increase in prices, or they will have to. Another legislation comes into force. If there is no money, there is one very simple example. If a person gets a thousand dollars in pension, and they tell him after the promotion, now you're going to have 2,000 dollars, and you don't have 2,000 dollars, then this person won't get a pension at all, because part of the pension payment is not foreseen. I mean, either half the people pay their pensions, half the people don't, or at the same time it turns out no one gets them. Let's maybe instead of going to the election competition now, who's going to promise more people, let's maybe do it in a completely different way, in budgetary legislation, just according to budget legislation, the level of living minimum is recognized by what? With the budget. Instead, let's talk about the budget where the rates and the increases in pensions are set, and the wage increases for the calculated, what could be the budget, the limit. And what we're trying to do today is instead try to please the voters, so maybe all of us are going to like it, but are they going to get something out of it? No, it's not. Once again, let's start working on the 2010 budget. Let's start working on structural reforms. I'll give you one brief example, in Crimea along the entire southern coast of Crimea today, there are about 500 containers under the water since World War II with chemical weapons. It's a sinus, it's a sinus, it's a pretense, it's a pretense. And the strength of these containers coincides in 2010. If all of this falls into the Black Sea, please excuse us, we won't have the Black Sea. And there won't be a population to raise social standards because it's a mortal danger to people. Let's talk in the budget about how to allocate money to eliminate the consequences of this possible, it's not a natural disaster, it's a real environmental disaster that could lead to worse consequences than Chernobyl. But with regard to today's Bills of the Block of "Our Ukraine – the People's Self-Defense" and the part that is members of the coalition approved not to vote in favour of bills that could simply undermine the situation in the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u128	Kolesniki Dmitry Valeriyovich is transferring the right to speak to Akima's Irina Mikhailovny.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u129	Dear colleagues! Bondarenko's colleague said there was a breakdown in the country, a collapse of the economy. I remind you that the country's collapse is the impoverishment of the people who live in it. And I recall that it was the Government of Timoshenko that first deprived the people of their jobs, because this year Ukraine was the first to lose 20 per cent of GDP in the first half of the year. It was the first blow to the well-being of people, to deprive them of their jobs. And the second blow is to eat up the rest of the income with high inflation. Ukraine, I stress once again, takes first place in inflation this year. Because most transition countries, the more developed countries, as a result of the first half of the year, have deflation. That is why the real wage fell by 10 per cent during the six-year period and the real pension by 6 per cent. I recall that in the pre-election process, the coalition and Yulia Vladimirovna Timoshenko personally promised voters an increase in living standards to European standards. It was only about two years ago. Where are these European standards? I'll call one European standard. The Belgian cow is currently receiving daily grants from a budget of EUR 2 per day. Just 60 euros, which one Belgian cow receives, is about the current pension of our pensioner. The European standards of Julia Timoshenko are worse lives than Belgian cows. That's the result. At first, the population is led to total poverty, and then they are closing down real information on what is currently the real minimum of living. Only six months after the Party of the Regions and repeated treatments, the Ministry of Labour finally opened this mysterious figure. After the closure of the information, we are offered an almost three-hour discussion today on why it is not possible to increase the subsistence minimum in any circumstances next year. They say there's no money. Sorry, this year's budget has been overrun, there are 27 billion grevens in treasury accounts. Today or tomorrow, we will listen to the report of the Court of Auditors, which clearly shows that business has been completely “blended” over the six months because the level of overpayments, overpayments, I stress, all taxes and charges have risen by an average of 1.4 times. More than twice as much money has been received from the National Bank and 1.7 times more unpaid payments have not been recovered from VAT. Where is the government concerned with the money it received from taxpayers and in particular from the business? And the answer here is very simple. The Court of Auditors and international experts estimate that between 20 billion and 30 billion officials are lost in the public procurement system each year, including this year. It is the 30 billion bracelets that, according to our opponents, are not enough to raise living standards. So, in summary, I call on you, let's see why in the State there is such a mess? Why the level of theft and corruption has increased dramatically during this year. And then, I think it will be easy to find the necessary amount not only for raising living standards, but also for major structural reforms. That is why there is honor and conscience today, I am referring to the representatives of all factions, I am absolutely confident that this person will raise his hand and vote in favour of raising living standards. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u130	Landik Valentin Ivanovich is transferring the right to speak to national deputy Slauti Viktor Andriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u131	Dear colleagues! It was a good man, a Jew, that was taken to Odessa by accident. He comes in and asks the security guard, he says, "Guard," and tell me why they put a grate in here, what kind of idiot gets in here? So I want to turn the other way. Obviously, if there's a rise in social standards, pensions, wages are not enough for the people, it's not enough, because the coalition, so-called, won't vote, there's a proposal: let's go, then we'll send a sum of money to the village to at least spend on agricultural products. Dear colleagues, have you looked at the APC 2010 budget? Dear Lavrinovich Alexander Nikolaevich, may I keep my mouth shut?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u132	Victor Andryovich, you have the right to express your point of view from the parliamentary rostrum. Please, do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u133	[[Shut up]] . It's a general rehearsal. If such approaches to the APC, the general rehearsal is that we will do all a minute of silence on the agro-industrial complex of Ukraine in such approaches. [[Applause]] 3.3 billion of the total fund is still going down by one billion. Of the 7 normal programs in the agrarian sector of 2009, which have been deleted, this is the fertility of the land (this gumus that is in need) this year, they are collecting the Ulysses map of Volodymyrna. They're taking support from farmers, please read it. The other one. They're taking down the agricultural utility. There were 40 million, they're shooting 24. The collaboration is sound: a column minus the support of this newly introduced cooperative. This is a step towards the territorial communities. Dear friends, a specific question is being killed. So if there's no budget, there's no loans, there's no investment, there's no investment, there's no investment, I'm not allowed to go to the bank, because the only program that's contributed to the collection of credits with a high commercial rate that compensated for this program is taken off. Dear friends, you know that in 2009 the support of the 2009 agri-industrial complex did not begin. 776 million loans were issued in 2008. And that's where 800 million were owed. Not yet issued in 2008. I, my dear friends, would like to see an agro-industrial complex. I don't understand how to set up the Prime Minister. I don't know if we can talk about the sugar industry in Winnitz tomorrow. Seven hundred and fifty dollars per hectare of sowers waiting for farmers for two months is zero. Sugar-making gas is scary. They don't start work. Of the 55 sugar factories in Ukraine, 7 started working. So this branch just, I'm sorry, I don't want to say that word, it's dying. Clearly, the government is sending Yuri Melnik, the minister, to where? To the Father on Polish soil, where the harvest is practically hard to obtain. The minister's coming. He says, “Father, give me 50,000 tons of sugar.” No questions asked. $550 a ton. He came back and came. Because she's going to be here with this 12-year-old sugar. Think about it! To Belarus, on Polish soil, we're going for sugar! Dear colleagues, this is no longer a joke, and imported politics should have a fart, and not 4 million meats will be dragged here. What's with the boys over there in Treeserve, over there, the white collars, where they're hiding these banks? So we need to support the bills that Papiev introduced. Otherwise, the people in the village will die. And the last. And you know that the Pension Fund, now the farmer will be paying all 32 percent of the bills from 2010? Even those who pay for fixed farming.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u134	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u135	They took the support of a farmer who compensated for this wager. So the pension is paid like everyone else, a hundred percent, and there's no pension in the peasants and there's no salary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u136	Serbian Yuri Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u137	Dear colleagues! I cannot agree with the last speaker, with his conclusions. But he doesn't want to insult his colleagues. It's the only thing I ever said. What we discussed before that was a purely political discussion. And he's already discussing the 2010 budget, and this really needs to be discussed. What did the predecessors say before, and what were we talking about? I'm not going to call it a last name, so they don't make lines or hold meetings. One complained that he didn't have access to the budget, provoked us to go out for a demonstration. Another forgot that the leader of the Communist Party recently in the newspaper “Today” criticised the Party of Regions for proposing an unrealistic budget that would lead to the collapse of the economy and said that the Communist faction would support all the bills. Although you know very well, if you support these bills, the country will fall into chaos. We're talking about bad, bad government funding by looking at what's normal about the economy that doesn't have a crisis. We forget that the government, in these very difficult circumstances, holds the core of what it's called: it holds wages, it holds pensions. Yeah, there's probably calculations, there's calculations in a lot of areas, but it's basically calculations because there's really no funds and there's an economics to keep. Now I was on my way out to the rostrum, and my colleagues said that the building industry was on the rise. No, unfortunately, she's not on the rise. But I'm grateful to the government that he started working in this direction. Yes, it was very difficult. As early as December of that year, the Prime Minister signed a letter to the National Bank and the budget had to receive 1 billion dollars to support the implementation of the law that you and I passed with more than 300 votes. And only in September of this year did this money finally get from the National Bank. So nine months of fruitless struggle for obvious issues. And I'm grateful to the government that he's doing construction work. He has been working to ensure that our families, at a minimum of 15,000 families, will receive the accommodation in which they are in line. And if you multiply it by three or 45 thousand more families, you'll get built-up houses for your own expenses. So this isn't a real government job? Let's talk to you about how to work on the 2010 budget. Let's do better, but we're all in the districts, we'll consult with our voters what they say. On Friday, I returned from the constituency. Yeah, they say, we understand, we understand that the situation is difficult, don't use the mess in the country, because you're going to do so that you're not going to buy anything on our pension at all. Then why are we doing this? People understand. And we think very badly of our people, if we say that he doesn't understand that what he's proposing right now is going to lead to economic collapse, to crisis, and to what the people are really going to impoverish. Thanks to the National Bank, we robbed our people because of these speculations. I remember a meeting held in Minfin in March of this year. I don't want to call this banker's name, he's going to be running around, the bank manager, who's going to be running to the presidents now, who's going to be speaking at this meeting and talking. Let's create an anti-corruption group with you to monitor where these funds are going, where they're being refinanced. [[To the bankers, to the colleagues.]] So let's work on these issues. And this policy, what someone expects is that if he prepared these laws, he put them here on the Supreme Council, and he gets some bonus from the voters, let's not expect him to, the people in us are smart. That's the only offer. Here is a colleague of mine who started discussing the 2010 budget. So let's really get to the budget, let's make real proposals, let's support it, because there's a real raise in wages and pensions, and an index of inflation, and then, really, we'll do something for our country and for our own people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u138	Stojko Ivan Mikhajlovich passes the right to speak to Lápinius Ksenija Mikhailovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u139	Thank you, Your Honor. Xenia Lapina, group “For Ukraine!” Dear colleagues! Of course, the state of our social standards depends on the state of our Ukrainian economy, and we can't make any conclusions without understanding what's going on in the economy. What is happening today? On the one hand, the government seems to be talking about such pragmatic steps; what's difficult for everyone; what needs to be done economically. It reminds me of that. On the other hand, what does the government do? 20 billion unreturned VAT, 12 billion advances in taxes paid. What's that? This is the Ukrainian economy, the Ukrainian citizen is lending to the government. For what purpose? What programs? We don't see the report and we don't see the effectiveness of these programs. Emission costs. We also don't see the effectiveness of the programs on which these emission costs are allocated. In fact, government today is its policy, especially its policy of pressure. And that's what all businesses are complaining about, from the smallest entrepreneur to the big companies to the owners of big groups and factories. About how they feel about just increasing tax pressure. Although you and I haven't changed taxes by one percent, we haven't increased taxes, and the tax pressure is rising. Of course, in this situation, the economy is stagnant, and that's what we're seeing today, and it's not just the result of the global financial crisis. Because we see a different country reacting to this same world financial crisis. I have repeatedly cited the example of our neighbor, Poland, who does not even have a recession. Although the global financial crisis was supposed to hit the economy, they also lived in a very open economy. In other words, government policy depends on a great deal. We have today's inefficient government policy in the field of economics. What do we have in this area of enterprise development? On the one hand, we have declarations of support, on the other hand, moratoriums on checks don't work, legislative initiatives are not supported, no initiative is supported that really protects the entrepreneur. At the same time, because of the impossibility of making normal land agreements with local authorities, entrepreneurs are once again losing huge costs. All of this is certainly stifling the economy. But on this background, saving on social standards is the stupidest thing you can do. Savings should be made on extra administrative expenses. We're talking about this for a year, insisting that cuts in administrative expenditure, fewer permits, fewer checks, less pressure, it's going to give the economy a much better boost than suppressing social standards. And second of all, what I want to point out is, dear colleagues, if we look at the budget that we're looking at for consideration, we're going to see that the government is proposing such an interesting and strange policy for 2010. Some categories, some well - organized, selected ones, are offered some allowances. While real social standards are actually freezing, and if you look at inflation as planned, it's even decreasing. What if it's not buying individual electoral groups? We've been through this. That's the wrong policy. The next government will face the consequences of this policy and will suffer in seeking a way out of this situation. It's not a normal situation, and it's completely unfair if we're already taking on social justice. Fairly, it may not be much, but it does raise common social standards. Then we realize that all social groups benefit equally. Maybe small, but the same. And they're going to list both the tariff grid and all the other standards that lead to the minimum social standard. We support the proposed Zarubinian Bill in the first reading of why? Because we're convinced that we still need to create a working group and reconcile the proposed increases in standards with the proposals that can be put into the budget. And the draft budget for 2010 certainly needs to be reviewed and recalculated, taking into account the overall rise in social standards and throwing out these incomprehensible allowances that can actually then be destroyed.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u140	Thank you. Lukas Olena Leonidivna gives the right to speak to Papiev Mikhail Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u141	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine, Your Honor! The discussion of the bill caused me to ask for words so that we would somehow inform the Ukrainians honestly. What are the basic bills? The point is that people today have the wrong number of salaries and pensions. The governing coalition is trying to convince us that there are underpaid salaries and pensions because there is no money in the budget. And they're trying to get us out of here somewhere. Dear colleagues! I want to remind you that in the economy, when we set a minimum wage and raise it, the government's main function is not to say that there is no money, and the government's main function is to look at the real sector of the economy, how much does it take to reduce the income tax in order to get the money released to raise the wages, how much less does it take to get the pay fund to reduce the employer's interest in raising the wages, how much less the credit rate today is needed so that Ukrainian businesses can get the circulation costs, how much more today would it take to make the companies budget-generating tax canals. Then I'd say it's a government that's progressively thinking and thinking and, first of all, trying to improve the lives of citizens. So if you say Ukrainian production, you have to analyze the cost structure of the product. You know, today the Labour Fund is between 7 and 11 percent, at a time when worldwide it's between 25 and 35 percent. We need to talk to business leaders today, and you know that our faction, the faction of the Party of Regions, is a faction of Ukrainian producers. It's a fraction of exporters, it's a faction that supports hired workers, unlike the BUT faction, which is a fraction of the support of importers and a faction that now supports transportation four years ahead of the ice cream and other products. So today, we are here to raise people's wages, which will allow them to increase their income to the Ukrainian Pension Fund and increase their pensions. Dear colleagues! And another thing is, I'm getting the attention of national citizens. When I was in the government of Yanukovich and came to the Prime Minister's report every week, he asked me a few basics. The first is the purchasing power of citizens, which average salary this month and how much more Ukrainian citizens can buy meat, milk, bread, fruit and others for their wages. So we took, I'm showing you the table, we're running these tables right now. We took the average wage of August this year and the average pension of August this year and compared how much food citizens can buy this year and how much they could buy a year ago. One and a half times less. And now you're saying you don't have to raise wages and pensions? And then there's indicator one. In our time, we were constantly comparing our minimum wage in currency to the euro with Russia's minimum wage. It's again I'm talking to national citizens. In 2007, we had 54 euros, the minimum wage in Ukraine, and at that time Russia had 57 euros. To date, Russia has raised its minimum wage to 94 euros, our minimum wage from 64 has fallen to 57. Don't tell our citizens that other countries don't increase wages and pensions. Wages and pensions, especially minimum wages and minimum pensions, increase Russia as well, and raise Poland, and raise Germany. Ukraine today at the level of pay is just a horror. Among the European countries, we took 29 seats. Today we take our last place and compete with Moldova. Dear colleagues! Let us somehow, somehow, refer to the economy of Ukraine, to the citizens of Ukraine. If we say we're a European nation, let's do it in European. There is a need to increase wages and pensions today. If this government, after we, if God gives us this law, say that it has no money, our demand is that this government go away. There will be another government that will show that there is money that is now able to raise wages and pensions and pay people a steady wage. And at the same time.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u142	Herman Hanna Mikolayevna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u143	Dear friends! Politics, the economic policy of Yulia Timoshenko, has led you to know that every Ukrainian citizen is now responsible for more than a thousand dollars. The International Monetary Fund, other experts say that next year this debt will double for each of us. What's going on? She's in silk and the people are in debt. But respectable colleagues, not just in debt to every Ukrainian when it is in silk, every Ukrainian, most Ukrainians, today live on money that is simply impossible to live for: neither send children to school, nor feed them, nor prepare for the winter is impossible. Julia Timoshenko says that there is no money to raise minimum pensions and wages today, and she also says that in January we will give that money and raise the salaries there for teachers who run the club and so on. If Julia Timoshenko doesn't have the money today, where will she get the money in January, if the same International Monetary Fund predicts that unemployment will fall by another 10 percent in Ukraine next year? If the same International Monetary Fund predicts that in Ukraine the bracelet will be depreciated and will cost one dollar already in January 10 and more than ten dollars. So it's going to go down further, it's going to go up further and people won't have to live again and raise the wages and pensions she promises in January, she won't have anything to do with it. You could have believed Julia Volodymyrna if she had not fulfilled one of her promises. We remember the grand promise of Julius Volodymyrna, who rocked the world and which Reuters has passed on to all the news agencies of the world. You remember how in October of last year, Timoshenko said that she would “close the door to the crisis” and the crisis would not come to Ukraine. The price of this promise you see is what, we all see it. We know that two years ago, just now, Julia Timoshenko promised that there would be a contractual army in Ukraine. The price of this promise is what, today, soldiers are poisoning the rotten meat that they're bringing from abroad because they've buried their own animalry and poisoned their children, you see how many children in Crimea have been poisoned by the food they're bringing from abroad because our production is gone. We know many promises from Julia Timoshenko. We know promises of cheap sugar, cheap gasoline, we've already returned Julia, and we know how it ended. Hence, no one today believes that in January, Yulia Timoshenko will raise one’s wages and pensions. No, it's not true, it's empty promises. She makes these promises, knowing that she will no longer be in power in January, and this will have to be done to others — us and you. We're going to ask Timoshenko why she's acting like an opposition when she's in power today. Because it has all the important powers in its hands today. Today it can raise wages and pensions; today it can live up to the promises it made in the elections. But she doesn't. Instead, putting it off again after the new year. So knowing that all her words, all her promises, are nothing more than empty talk, we ask the question like that today. Or today, here in this room, we're all together, and the Yulia Timoshenko Block, including, we vote in favour of raising wages and pensions, or the entire people of Ukraine will understand clearly, this authority cannot improve his life and this power needs to be changed immediately. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u144	Dear colleagues! Because of the technical differences here, it wasn't announced that we were going to continue working for 15 minutes for one minute. Dear colleagues, and after that, we'll deal with you, because we're going into a conflict that we can't, after we've completed our consideration of the matter, not make a decision. And then there were different proposals, including I had a meeting with representatives of the faction of the Party of Regions and the BIT, so I'm going to put it to a vote, and we're going to make the right decisions or we're not going to make the right decisions to keep the working situation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So I would now ask us, first of all, to continue until 14:15, what I can do without a vote. And let's finish our discussion of the question, and then we'll continue our proposals for a decision. Actually, my performances are over. We have one minute left. No one insists on the performances? No, it's not. Please, Vladimir Makarovich, to conclude that the government is proposing that we make a conscious choice. [[B in m in s a l in]] Who? Just a minute. That's it, Vladimir Makarovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u145	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! When I reported on the bills that were proposed, I had already made a proposal. We propose to ask each of the initiators of the bill to look at the 2010 draft budget. Take a look at your bill. To calculate additional costs as required by the Supreme Council’s Rules of Procedure. And then listen to the report of the initiators of the bill to report on which sources in the following year could finance these 350, 40 billion dollars. And right, the distinguished national MP, he resents that there is little support in the village, and he offers it for a very different purpose. I agree with you that you object to all the bills. And yet we ask not to vote today. Ask the initiators to make their own calculations and show them where the funds can be financed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u146	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Discussing the question. Time is running out, sadly, and time is running out. We've followed the full procedure, your honors, pay attention, and we've discussed it. I think in order to set up a constructive work and stop what we've been doing, we need to have some arrangements and a clear solution to this problem, and we need to put a dot, or we need to continue our consideration of this issue. I think we can't all move away from what's going on in a country that has a social sense of people. The fact is that the wage component of the country’s GDP is extremely low and is 45 percent. In the most productive spheres, 33 percent and 8-12 percent in self-sustainment. And even if we have the technological level and the level of productivity of work, scientists are proving that a Ukrainian worker or an employee brings three times the amount of income that is paid abroad. And that, I think, should take over all the governments that were, that are and will be. And we don't have to compete with someone who loves people more. And obviously, we need to get out of here, your esteemed colleagues, into a totally positive scenario for our work. And there's an offer from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. She also deserves attention to continue her dialogue. But at the same time, we have a decision that we should vote in a changed way. Repealing it, the decision of the Supreme Council, unfortunately, no one can. So I suggest we do this now. They sat down to listen to the Head of the Counting Commission, their proposal. And then we'll make a decision when we're done with the matter. If there is now a proposal that has been made to complete our consideration of the question, I will put it to the vote to continue the morning session until the conclusion of the debate. If not, it won't be supported, then we'll be looking at it at 4:00. In order to remove the mutual accusations of failure to comply with the Rules. Please, Adam Ivanovich. Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich's microphone One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u147	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, then more logically, if you are right to continue or not to continue our meetings, let us first resolve this problem: continue or not continue. And after that, if you don't continue, it would be more logical to listen to the head of the Counting Commission at 4:00. Because you understand a certain technical moment. If we continue this session, we'll hear it now, if I don't continue, we'll hear it at 4:00.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u148	Dear colleagues, it's all right, but on one condition, the head of the Counting Commission will make proposals. If we are to make decisions about what we need to continue, we need the Counting Commission to be ready. And if it is for 16 hours, then we give the task to the Counting Commission to prepare it for the proper work. So, I think the offer is going to happen. Let's listen here for a few minutes and then we'll make a decision. Please. Shershun Mikola Haritonovich is the head of the Counting Commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u149	Dear Head, dear colleagues! The Counting Commission held its meeting and reports that the vote under the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order 5091-P will take place today at 16:00. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u150	But, dear fellows, then we must vote. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? In accordance with the Rules, when the matter is concluded, we must make a decision. There's an offer like that. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, Martinyuk's microphone. Please calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u151	Vladimir Mikhailovich, you are absolutely correct in saying that each discussion of the matter should end with a decision. We don't go to another question. We're going to a law defined by the Rules, a break. And after the break, we continue to consider this issue, that is, we are making a decision because the issue has already been discussed. There are no violations, and nothing needs to be voted on.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u152	Sergei Sas, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u153	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like to draw attention to the requirements of article 47 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, which states in part one that, according to part two of article 84, article 91 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council makes decisions solely in plenary sessions after discussion by a majority of votes. There's one more thing I wanted to say. There is a decision by the Constitutional Court that defines the term “vote”: voting is an action that takes place immediately after discussion. So please let's finish all these things, and then we'll take a break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-22-m0.u154	Dear colleagues, let's make this progress. I'll put it to the vote to continue. Wait a minute! Continue working until the final issue is resolved, that is, whether you make a decision or not. If the Supreme Council doesn't support it, at 4:00 we're going to be looking at this question, because there might be different interpretations here, because Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk is logical when he says that we're not starting a new question. I put to the vote to continue the morning session to establish the results of the voting on the bills that we have just considered. Please make up your mind, and everything will be fine. No, 226 needs votes. I beg you, Ivan Grigorovich, let's not! [[14:13:34]] For 177 Ladies and gentlemen. Ivan Grigorovich! It's all set here. Well, I can agree with you that the decision is not made. So I'm calling the morning session closed. At 4:00 p.m., I'm asking everyone to be in the session room. The voting process will begin in the manner established by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on these bills. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is closed.
