ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national MPs! Visitors and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:00:38]] Cards were registered in the 418 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues! Today is the birthday of the Ukrainian national deputy Bondik Valerija Anatoliyovich. He is 45 years old, let us welcome our colleague and wish him long years of fruitful life in good health. [[Applause]] Allow me to provide you with information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in plenary meetings on 31 March 2009. Twenty-one issues of the agenda have been discussed, three laws and one decree have been adopted, and seven bills have been adopted as a basis. The two bills are aimed at rereading the first reading. Nine bills were rejected. Honorary colleagues, in accordance with Rule 25 of the Rules, are on Wednesday 30 minutes away from speaking to the Ukrainian national deputies with proposals and announcements, reports. People's deputies please sign up for the performances, and there's a recording going on. Please put on the board the name of the national deputies who signed up for the performance. National MP Maruschenko, faction “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense”. My colleague Maruszczenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u2	I ask you to pass the word Stretovich to Volodymyr Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u3	Vladimir Stretovic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u4	Good morning, dear colleagues, distinguished voters, allow me to make a statement to the Christian Democratic Union regarding attempts to renew the media’s advertising of alcohol and tobacco. The Christian Democratic Union Party supports the ban on advertising alcohol and tobacco in the media since 1 January 2009. Such a ban has become the triumph of a healthy society that cares for its future in the long - term fight against the lobbyists of alcohol and tobacco business. This has also been another real step that has demonstrated our commitment to human and European values, since Ukraine has recently remained one of the few European countries that allow free advertising for alcohol and tobacco. The introduction of a bill on the return of such advertisements shows that the interests of society, morals, and the future, the health of adolescents, and young people are of little importance to its authors. It cannot be agreed that the renewal of such advertising is the only means of financial support for state television channels. Obviously, a nation that cares for its future is able to find funds for its media and without advertising that this very future is sure to be destroyed. Television should primarily promote healthy lifestyles, physical movements, cultural recreation, and not night parties in drinking and clouds of smoke. Our nation and its politicians, who are now present and present in this room, should take care of the health of the nation, of overcoming the demographic crisis, which may in future be worse than the economic crisis. That is why we claim to be indignant with such legislative initiatives, we call on all of the thinkers for whom the health and future of our children are high values to connect, and our parliamentary colleagues to prevent the resurgence of alcohol and tobacco advertising in the media. We will preserve the health of the nation, we will preserve the future of Ukraine! The Party of the Christian Democratic Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u5	National MP Schmidt is transferring the right to speak to Tereshuk Sergey Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u6	Sergey Tereshuk faction of the Block of Lithuania. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I want to draw your attention to some serious problems that are today in the agro-industry complex that are in the countryside. The villagers understood the problems associated with the economic and financial crisis. Obviously, first of all, we need to support the industry, we need to support the construction industry, we need to support the banks, the banking system. It was hoped that the turn would reach the peasants. Everyone knows the national wisdom that “the spring day feeds. ” But it happened, very sorry, not as it seemed. So complex, I'm saying without exaggeration, there were no situations in the agro-industrial complex, like today. This has to do with the price of last year’s crop, the fact that today it is impossible to borrow from the bank, the pressure to prolong, not prolong, but the return of existing loans, and the village today has about 30 billion loans. The only effective tool that the government has created in recent years was the Agrarian Fund. The agrarian fund worked well in the fall, and the agrarian fund began to work in the spring, entering into forward contracts. The villagers hoped that through the Agrarian Fund, funds would come to make a spring harvest campaign. But somehow for the last two weeks, even though Julia Volodymyrna is constantly on screen calling for the Agrarian Fund, the agrarian fund does not finance forward contracts. Hundreds of farms have drawn up documents, spent expenses. Today, they are forced to go to court to be reckoned with. Not enough, on the committee yesterday, we rejected a bill that predicted that an agrarian fund would buy both fertilizers and means of protection and fuel. The agrarian fund is a financial instrument of the state. We rejected this bill. That's why I'm calling on Mrs. Timoshenko to get the agrarian fund back to normal. I want to draw attention to the weeds. Isn't it a crime that the Ministry of Economics website has reported that sugar cane purchases have been registered since April 2nd. Today, peasants are looking for what to sow, how to sow, who will then sow when the Ministry of Economics commits a crime for agriculture. In addition, I will say that the Ministry of Economics has no right to do this without agreeing with the Association of Skratsukor and the Ministry of Agriculture. It's a dairy problem. Not enough that we don't have any ice cream today, any milk. Today, we import meat, we import dairy products. Today, peasants, Plainskin, Cherkaschina, Kyivshina, are shouting at the price of milk below one bracelet. I realize that there are market relationships, you can't force them to buy at more expensive prices, but there is a tool in the state, the Milk and Milk Products Act provides an opportunity to sustain the price of milk, because for peasants it's the only way to get at least some amount of money in a village where there are no jobs where there are huge problems. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u7	Aleksiev’s national deputy hands over the right to speak to Kilinkarov’s colleague, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u8	Honourable People's Deputies, on 4 April, the NATO aggression bloc will celebrate its sixtieth anniversary. The ruling circles and their member States, using their lying propaganda machine, portray NATO as a guarantor of peace and the siege of democracy. They are seconded by Ukrainian authorities, led by Victor Yushchenko, nationalists of all the arts and the Compradorian bourgeoisie, who are snorkeling with saliva, proving that our Family's entry into this military-political bloc will bring security, freedom and high standards of human life. All these allegations are also far from reality as the hypocritical pre-election advertising roles of bourgeois parties from their true goals. First, NATO is not a system of collective international security. It was designed and implemented by US militants as a cold war weapon against the Soviet Union, and after the end of the Warsaw Treaty and the end of the Soviet Union, whose power did not allow American imperialism to slaughter the land with impunity for the purpose of establishing its world domination, the North Atlantic Alliance became an instrument of war. The world has been informed by the ominous whistling of American bombs that hit the heads of women, children and old people in Yugoslavia. In the face of the demagogic declarations against international terrorism, the attackers have shed blood on Afghanistan and Iraq, human suffering, death has become a standard foreign policy tool for them. Thanks to the United States of America, the recognized head of the Alliance openly supported the President of Georgia, Saakashvili, the mass murderer who organized the South Ossetian genocide. Today, the entire international community believes that NATO is a world gendarmerie that is establishing an American new order on the planet, and its member States cannot even rule out internecine conflicts, and we will remember the confrontation between Turkey and Greece on the question of Cyprus. Second. There is no doubt that NATO has nothing to do with freedom of democracy and human rights. Were those values advocated by the Turkish cartels who killed people simply because they considered themselves Kurds or US guards who had been subjected to brutal torture by prisoners of Iraqi prisons? Yes, if the word “democracy” had meant anything to Brussels, they would have thrown in the garbage basket Victor Yushchenk, Timoshenko and Yatzenuk's application in the Alliance of Ukraine, because they know very well that the vast majority of our people do not want it. The Communist Party of Ukraine has consistently and irreconcilably opposed our country's involvement in the North Atlantic Alliance for all years of independence. We will continue this sacred struggle until the threat of alien enslavement threatens the Family and we will surely win, because together with us a people who will never bow their heads to the occupiers and their occupiers.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u9	Finish up, please. Finish up. Valentin Zubov, faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u10	Valentin Zubov, "Bloka Yulii Timoshenko" faction. Please pass the word to Kirilenko Ivan Grigorievich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u11	Ivan Kirilenko, BUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u12	Dear voters, Your Honor's Head, Your Honor's colleagues! Last week, he brought us a lot of excitement. And one of them was in the next. Our colleagues, on the left in the hall, decided to raise millions of people under the slogan “Get up a huge country!” We were worried because we knew that our colleagues were not comfortable in opposition, they didn't know how to do it, they were uncomfortable and uncomfortable. How it all worked out for them, we all saw it. Failed. For perhaps the chief slogan chosen was not correct: “Put down this authority and give me a new one! ” The people came and looked and realized that the new authority was not yet forgotten. And, dear fellows, you've had mistakes and even Hokhma. And the people remember, as with whips, the rails were tied up and then rolled over, and they remember how all the peace, hats, parrots, Mercedes and boeings were wiped out by three pines in the south. And remember when you and the pump met the Turkmen opposition, I'm sorry, and you barely left Ukraine without gas for many years. It's all been there. So, dear friends, a mistake has taken place. Do not make another mistake because you are about to block the Supreme Council’s rostrum from tomorrow. Why? Even teenagers realize that this cannot be done in this state. We have to work. And the slogan is, again, "You're giving the anti-crisis program!" Dear colleagues, if you don't know, your secretaries know this: the anti-crisis program of December 23rd in the Supreme Council is submitted by the government, registered, sent to the committee. There she is. Every deputy knows. Please, no committee in charge of the opposition has considered it to be too sad. The government is ready to present it at any moment. Look, come on, it's not perfect, please, for the discussion, for the discussion. Do not make these mistakes! You're talking about an anti-crisis package of laws in the hall. 40 laws the government has introduced, 24 adopted, I remind you, and adopted laws in an agrarian complex; you asked for chemists -- chemically accepted; you protected car builders -- 13 percent of the time saved; the energy was maintained, the builders, other industries. You need to change your budget so that you can accept changes to your budget, it needs to be filled in. And yesterday we passed laws that fill the income part of the budget. Sometimes it's hard for you, colleagues, to understand. So you hugged us in the fall, thanking us for saving Parliament and us with Parliament; something frightened you, ran to the street, where many banks, and then ran away from the fear of Bilostone. Guys, this looks a little rough. We're asking you. A colleague of ours once said: “Do we have checkers or rides? ” – So we say, “Go, work.” And the checkers are sandstones, and the sandstone is on Canary. You can go get some rest and come here for the presidential election. It'll be all right, don't worry. Let's put the day's decision on the presidential election in order today, and let's take this down. I wish you, as the classic also said, “Let the problems and disagreements not make you in the soul of the weather.”
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u13	Thank you. National Deputy Korge, Timoshenko Yuli Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u14	Please pass the word Tomenko Mikoli Volodymirovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u15	Yesterday in this session hall, it was fashionable to talk about three problems or three problems. I realized that the first disaster was a financial and economic crisis, but I'm convinced that yesterday's vote, our work showed that it wasn't a crisis, it was a disaster not a crisis. The second was called the political crisis. I've read the draft constitution proposed by the President, which is, my friends, the Presidential-Oligarchic Republic is planning to create, not that there's a political crisis, there's a problem, there's no willingness to get out of the political crisis. But the third even bigger problem that we haven't talked about here is elements of anarchy and irresponsibility that are increasingly occurring in places. And today is a special day, today, 200 years of the birth of Mikola Vasilovich Gogol, and you know, he wasn't just a Ukrainian romantic, he was there and he wrote about the devilish Ukrainian, so now I've read the references that came to the Supreme Council, so it turns out that we have in terms of the current anarchy or the irresponsibleness of very willing to make money on this anarchy. We have already begun to hold meetings in the regions, where money is being cast out. According to Komsomolska Truth, “The Devil has been banished to Donetsk and has been proposed to enter into an anti-crisis relationship with God for 20 grevens.” I have a question: doesn’t the authorities know that we are banned from mass use of hypnosis, psychological, psychotherapy and so on? We don't have a Department of Homeland Security? What we don't have is the National Television and Radio Council, which can't stop Kiev from showing these meetings with Nigerian Sandei Adelajah, who tells us how stupid Ukrainians should go to church, to the cemetery, and what should they do? If we don't stop it today, we're going to go back to the situation that was once in the Russian Empire of Rasputin's time when the witches, the witches, will be gathering people now and telling them what to do. I, by the way, read on the website “The Embassy of God” that Sunday Adelaide advises all the leaders of Europe, the United States and Israel. I wrote to the ambassador of the United States and Israel asking them to confirm that Barack Obama is actually living with the advice of our Nigerian or the prime minister of Israel is using these things because we will go so far. If we still engage in divination today in the service of the Ukrainian State, we will never get out of this crisis. So, my friends, I'd like to form this, I'd like to form a delegational request to the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Health, the National Council for Television and Radio, and I'm convinced that, of course, Gogol is not a gift, he was promoting unclean power, but Ukrainian power. Now foreign unclean forces are promoted. So let's not do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u16	The National Deputy Komar is transferring the right to speak to Anatoly Kirilovich Kinah, a faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u17	Dear National Deputies! Respectable compatriots! A faction of a party of regions, calling on coalition and government to demand. Ladies and gentlemen, stop the constant declarations and promises. Stop the cynical deception of the entire Ukrainian people. Start telling the truth in the end. And the truth is, for six months now, Ukraine's economy has been in a state of unprecedented decline. The 4th quarter of 2008 is a negative 25 percent drop. January-February is minus 33 percent. The real - size salary fell by 15 percent. The unemployed have been maimed by millions of Ukrainian citizens, and 2 million are working on forced vacations and a reduced working week. The cost of credit resources is up to 40 percent and the entire real economy, including small and medium-sized businesses, is isolated from access to credit resources. Instead, the declarations, the promises, the twisting of the situation, the "ritual dances" around the terms of the International Monetary Fund, which do not correspond to the national interests of Ukraine, the attempt to walk the world with an outstretched hand, when even the highly educated and restrained Japanese, the Japanese Embassy is forced to challenge the quality of the agreement and the allocation of billions of dollars to Ukraine as financial assistance. We demand, stop the destruction of Ukraine's economy and the social sphere of citizens' lives, the vitality of the state as a whole. Haotic systemless actions, tax evasion, increased debt for VAT compensation, calls for no increase in fiscal pressure, an entire package of laws that essentially increases fiscal pressure on citizens, businesses, excises, local taxes, and congregations, and so on. No state in the world allows the crisis to increase fiscal tax pressure on its citizens and the economy. It's very flawed that today, and this affects millions of Ukrainian citizens, we don't actually have the only state in Europe -- the anti-crisis program, and that's the main thing. Therefore, the anti-crisis programme should be formally introduced into Parliament, except for promises. Clear directions for the recovery of the financial and banking system, especially for millions of citizens who have taken mortgage loans; access to economic credit in general. In principle, the goal program is in the fields. It's very important to do everything we can to protect the national manufacturer, not the way we do it today. And of course, we are once again shaping our rigid position, and we are confident that this position is supported by the vast majority of the Ukrainian people.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u18	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u19	In the absence of a system-wide anti-crisis program, clear changes, complex additions to the State budget, actions related to crisis management, we will take a hard stand, until we block Parliament's work. And we call on this call to the entire Ukrainian people. You can't solve the problems of overcoming the crisis -- go aside, don't hostage the entire Ukrainian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u20	Thank you. Treguchev is referring the right to make a speech to the Holy of Olives. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u21	Dear fellow citizens! Every national MP who has not lost contact with his constituents knows very well how difficult it is to meet people now. People express all the pain and burden of their life problems, and the MP has to listen for everyone: for the President, for the government, for the governor, and for the mayor. Nevertheless, perhaps even more so, such communication becomes meaningful at such times. Now, perhaps more than ever, you can detect and raise acute problems and find a way to solve them. As a result of my work in the Dnipropetrov region, I immediately discovered two wild experiments conducted on humans. The Dnipropetrov district government has organized and implemented a program of mass harassment, which is cynically called “Give the school a window”. This is a brilliant example of how any good idea can be brought to absurdity and turned into a problem. This is about replacing windows in all educational institutions of the area of wood on metal-plastics, but not at the expense of the state, but at the expense of teachers and parents. This actually means that every school teacher should give almost all of his and so little wages to set up half the windows in his classroom. This, colleagues, is my gift-coming schedule until 1 June - 30 percent, by 1 September - 50 percent, by 1 December - 75 percent. The next sheet is the governor’s obligation to bring to the disciplinary responsibility those teachers who failed to complete the school’s gift schedule. Another interesting experiment in Dnipropetrovsk is the destruction of the Dnipropetrov militia. Only the first 1.5 months of the work of the new head of the U.S.S. This means that similar experiments in the rest of the world pay for their lives and health. The increase in crime has certainly been the result of specific human resources policies. During the first month of the work of the new militia “metal” was released on various grounds, or some 15 people were transferred to a different level of leadership. And in order to be removed from the post of Head of WHO, it took more than three weeks, in fact, to paralyze this unit with numerous tests and tests that were finally falsified. Another victim of a new police policy is the chief of the DAI Krivoriz district, who was behind bars for obstructing the conduct of a prosecutorial review of illegal metallurgical transactions. Thus, the real orientation of the work of the new leadership of the militia becomes quite clear. As it turns out, the illegal actions of the main daytime militiaman are personally followed by the minister of internal affairs, Yuri Lucenko. I was the initiator of Minister Tsushka's report for mass personnel cleaning at the Ministry of Justice. I would like to inform you that a group of members of the State will be initiating today's report to the Parliament of Interior Minister Yuri Lucenka on personnel cleansing in internal affairs. And to the inhabitants of Dnipropetrov region, I want to say that we are able to unite our efforts to remove problems in the area. And I want to reassure you, we're not going to let this vacchanal go anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u22	Olez Donjas is referring to Viácheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u23	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “For Ukraine” MP. Dear colleagues, honourable voters, I am obliged to say that the parliamentary group “For Ukraine” never divides its vote depending on who passed the bill. It is equally important for us when the bill was introduced by the President of Ukraine, the Government of Ukraine, the Coalition or the Opposition. If this bill is in the interests of the Ukrainian people, we always vote in favour of such decisions. If it's some kind of "response," if it's lobbyist stuff, we never vote. That's why we're rejecting all the allegations yesterday that the bills that the government passed weren't voted on. I remind you that thanks to our principled position yesterday, two bills were passed to increase excise duties on tobacco and alcohol, which will provide additional revenue to the government in exchange for about five billion dollars. At the same time, we never promised anyone, including Prime Minister Timoshenko, that we would vote on bills that directly and indirectly beat at small businesses, we did not promise the coalition and the Prime Minister that we would agree to triple the workload on small business, which, to this day, thank God, provides jobs for ourselves, and also provides hired workers who work with them. We are surprised that, instead of making the proposals made by the Za Ukraine parliamentary group, the government passed a pension bill yesterday, which no longer provided for a ceiling for officials, judges, prosecutors and other pensioners who received a pension ten times higher than the average pensioner in Ukraine. Such approaches have never been promised to support anyone, nor will we support them, nor will we continue to be asked to do so. We think that now, more than anything else, if we talk about budget changes, the government has to approach this issue in a comprehensive way, not patch up some kind of exact hole, but rather take over the unemployment agenda, because if the government and the coalition are afraid of some kind of threat from the opposition to a social explosion, the government should know that a social explosion can be organized not by politicians, and more so, not by politicians for money, but by the people who lose their jobs. So if you make changes to the budget, which will provide for central funding from the public works budget, which will provide for part-time funding, and now people, especially in the South and the East, are suffering from this, there will be no social explosion. This is what I propose to do to the government. And I'm asking Parliament to put our bills into the agenda: 3668 -- a moratorium on small business tax checks and 4201 -- a moratorium on taxes other than excise duties. I'm asking you to do that.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u24	Sergey Sobolev, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u25	Honorable Head of the Supreme Council, distinguished colleagues! Judging from the fact that our colleagues who failed in fact yesterday's pension legislation were actively justified, it becomes clear that it was a direct order and a team to bring down such laws as are necessary for our pensioners. I would like to remind you that they passed a bill that not only gave seasonal workers the opportunity to finally get pensions, to pay contributions to the Pension Fund, that they didn't just crash those two million of our citizens who are working on a single pension and who have no opportunity to get a decent pension, that they didn't just take down seven million of our citizens who are working abroad and still have no right to a pension. And they actually put down a key bill that allowed those who were already retired to be recalculated, not alone, but 1.35. That's why I think that cynicism of yesterday's vote is too much to confirm that these so-called protest actions are aimed at one another -- to cause dissatisfaction among different types of people, including pensioners, as if Parliament were not working. So I'm talking to those people's deputies who didn't vote on these important bills yesterday, and today they're trying to justify themselves in front of a session hall, as if they were doing it for good purposes with regard to pensioners. Now go and explain to the people why our pensioners cannot receive a decent pension from the retirement benefits they will pay. I'm not talking about a failed bill that deals with amending and adding to the budget. We understand very well that for you to raise tariffs for the population in connection with the price of gas, this is a key issue that can trigger an explosion in the population. That's why you didn't vote to direct the targeted costs to Naftogaza Ukraine and to stop once and for all speculation about the possibility of raising tariffs on utility charges and gas prices. This was done directly in order to bring down this unique project, which made it possible after this year not to raise the tariffs on gas. And the last. It is not in vain that all the stocks are scheduled for tomorrow, for tomorrow is actually the last day when Parliament can make and approve decisions on the date of the election. That's why our faction insists today that we vote in favour of the President's election date, so that we don't expect the faction of the Party of Regions to play for the President's Secretariat to cancel the President's election at all, as required by the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u26	Thank you. National MP, yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u27	Dear colleagues! I have three good news for you. We do not often hear good news: the government has an anti-crisis programme, the IMF has given Ukraine a tranche and the crisis in Ukraine has been halted. I can see a smile on my colleagues' faces. Right, it's a first-April joke, so please don't believe it. You can and should smile because you can only smile at the fact that there is still no revised budget in Ukraine and we are living on completely unrealistic figures. It can be seen with a smile that despite the absence of the anti-crisis programme, Timoshenko has stated and stated that it is and is embodied. It's funny, it's funny because the anti-crisis program doesn't just believe in a political bomb, it doesn't believe in the population. To date, the population believes and supports Timoshenko at only 2 per cent, 89 per cent of the population believe that the economic problem in Ukraine is getting worse and the Government cannot fight it. And 70 per cent of foreign experts put Ukraine among the CIS countries last on anti-crisis efforts. Unfortunately, however, it is laughter through tears because all the problems of the crisis lie on the shoulders of the population. How does the Government of Timoshenko cope with the crisis? I would call that the principle of three o's, three o's. First, lies, lies, information, lies with empty promises; secondly, accusations, find the enemy and accuse him of preventing you from doing his work; and thirdly, bet, the population will be charged with high tariffs, and business will be taxed higher. As the package of laws passed today by the Government of Timoshenko as an anti-crisis week, it demonstrates these three basic principles, three “o”. We will take the famous pension law, as proposed by the Government of Timoshenko, to balance the Pension Fund with a very simple measure, to increase the pension pressure on small and medium-sized businesses. So the 2.7 million small entrepreneurs who are now paying 84 dollars to the Pension Fund are going to pay 200. And that's why we're going to close the 18 billion unrecovered deficit of the Pension Fund. I think it's a lie, it's a little bit of a small business. And the second law on budget change, which is why we are going to balance NAC oilegas, by obtaining VAT from gas that Ukraine does not yet own. The Stockholm Court has not completed its consideration and if this ruling is not in favour of Ukraine, an additional budget is formed in the Ukrainian budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u28	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u29	At $3.6 billion, that's the price of Timoshenko's political field. What is the reason why the gap in the Nak Oilegas is about to be covered? By 1 May, Natzbank must transfer its planned profits to the budget. My question. And why would the bank increase its reserves?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u30	Thank you! Time's up. Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u31	And why would Natzbank stabilize our currency? Two days ago, Timoshenko said that she felt like an electric chair and that's true. But I do not want the people of the country to join her on this electric chair. It's time to change power, and it's not an April joke! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u32	Thank you. Dear colleagues! The presentation has been completed, with regard to the proposals presented in the presentations, I ask the secretariat to prepare the respective assignments. Two factions require a 30 - minute recess for consultations. Maybe you'll talk about it and we won't have a break? This is the factions of BUT and our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense. Who will act? Please, Kirilenko. Microphone, please. Ivan Kirilenko, BUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u33	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! And I'm in my speech, and some deputies supported what I said on behalf of the faction. We insist on putting into order today the question, the consideration of three decrees on the determination of the presidential election to calm both society and the over-politicized hall. Scenarios themselves are being published today, wandering through the media, on the Internet. Let's calm society down! There are three decisions, there is a justification for every date, please let the hall be determined and we will calm everyone down, both the hall and society. Let us set a clear date for the presidential election and let all gossip and conjecture fall away. We request that this question be put to the vote immediately! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u34	Thank you. Colleagues, if we're going to make decisions, it has to be constitutional and legitimate. Therefore, since there is such a requirement, yesterday we have already created a commission appropriate, we need to put this question into consideration and inclusion in the agenda, and consideration for today. If you support it, we'll look at it. If not, it will not be considered. So I'm voting on the inclusion and consideration of draft decrees for the appointment of the President of Ukraine's election, for inclusion in the agenda and for consideration, please vote. [[10:39:38]] For 373 Questions are included in the agenda. Faction leaders, please exchange. From factions, please, one minute from this point of view before considering the matter. Please, Communist faction, microphone. One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u35	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I urge you, on behalf of the faction, to really consider this issue and make the right decision. The faction has identified and voted for one of the projects. But I'm drawing your attention to the next step that needs to be taken and the next step, to start today's impeachment procedure against President Yushchenk's current action, and it's clear that this is an action that needs to be done today to save democracy in the state, constitutionality and the rule of law, otherwise it will be quite different. Secondly, I call on you the next time, let's look at the future of our Ukraine today, however, we will dare to make one of the responsible decisions and make changes to the Constitution and, in general, to abolish the position of President, who today is the fifth wheel in the organization of power and obstructs the organization of power. I also urge everyone today to understand that the office of President does not, on the contrary, unite the state, but splits the state in half, does not unite the people of Ukraine, does not split the people of Ukraine, does not increase the power of the economy, but rather destroys the power of the economy, and this is the basis for canceling it altogether.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u36	Please, Party, faction of the Party of the Regions. Please, who's it going to be? Alexander Efraemov, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u37	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Party of the Regions has certainly supported the consideration of this issue. But, Vladimir Mihajlovich, we would like to see all the issues that, especially concerning the fate of the State, have not been resolved as a matter of urgency if a recess is announced on this matter, it would be logical to gather a consensus board in your office, to sit quietly and consult rather than rush into the hour to make serious fateful decisions, because there are several options to address this issue, including one option for early presidential elections. We must therefore make a conscious decision and, naturally, the Party of the Regions will vote unanimously on this format, which we agree on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u38	Please, Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u39	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, you know, it was rightly said that different scenarios, plans, are being developed by people who are not in Parliament, who are not working in it, who can't work in it, or they don't want it, or they can't, or they don't want it, and they don't want it, they're not prepared. This is what I'm saying for any delay in solving a perfectly correct question, this is a deliberate plan and one of the scenarios. You know, my dear colleagues, I know for a fact that there is no situation in any country of Europe like in Ukraine, when people, the population, people don't know when the election of the President of Ukraine will take place. I don't think that's normal in any country of the world. That's why the Lithuanian Block faction advocates an immediate, correct, legal settlement of this issue, and by dragging the various implementations of plans and scenarios, it seems to me that it's not the statesmen's position.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u40	Thank you. Please, the BUT faction. I'm asking you to calm down, dear fellows. Ivan Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u41	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! We've just made our position clear. And thank you to the Hall, thank you to the House of Deputies for having supported this position. Vladimir Mikhailovich, a former colleague, rightly pointed out whether he was the only country in the world in which there was no clear date for the election of the head of state. And what happens to legal nonsense? Each President is not working for five years, but he is working for five years and several months plus, for from the election date of another three or four months to the inauguration, before he enters office of the new President, five years three or four months or more. There's no such thing anywhere in the world. So we're going to vote for that project where it's going to be a clear date and it's going to be exactly five years from the election to the inauguration. We will maintain that position so that it will be clearly defined once and for all and end with speculation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u42	Thank you. Alexander Omelchenko, please, from the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense."
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u43	Good afternoon, respectable community! Good afternoon, national deputies! I would like to inform you that the Committee of the Supreme Council of State Buildings and Local Self-Government for a few months has been studying the question of the election of the President of Ukraine, whether it's December 27th or January 17th or October 25th. We held consultations with academic institutions, with lawyers, studied the difficult, complex issue, the active Constitution for the election of the President and the election of the President, the new legislative acts that were introduced into the new Constitution, and the committee took a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u44	Give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u45	To propose a session hall, this decision of the committee is in the head of the Supreme Council, the election date of the President of Ukraine on October 25, 2009. [[Applause]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u46	Dear colleagues, I ask you to calm down and I want to say, Your Honor, pay attention! - that this is a question that we have repeatedly discussed at the Conciliation Council. There are different points of view in terms of date. At the same time, it is essential that the Supreme Council of Ukraine, if it is to make a decision to make a decision constitutionally and legally, I would like to stress this once again. So you don't have to rush in here and show fever. Please, who's going to report this to the committee? Alexander Alexanderovich, are you reporting from the committee who will report this question? Who will report this fee from the committee, please? [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, please report to the committee's position, please. Who will report to the committee? Please. So you can't decide who's going to report to the committee? There'll be a procedure. Please report the decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u47	I beg your pardon, fellow Members of the National Parliament! To the draft decree: “The Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government, commissioned by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at its meeting, reviewed the draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the appointment of the President of Ukraine's election, introduced by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Moskal, in exchange for the previous one. [[Protocol No. 5327]] The draft regulation proposes to appoint the next election of the President of Ukraine on Sunday, October 25, 2009, because at the time of the election of the President of Ukraine, the constitutional provisions of the Ukrainian Constitution were valid and it was determined that the next election of the President of Ukraine was held on the last Sunday of October of the fifth year of the President's mandate, which is also provided for by the Ukrainian Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine, as well as by the generally defined principle of law: laws and other legal acts have no reverse effect at the time. [[Part One of Article 17]] [[Article 58 of the Constitution of Ukraine]] The Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the outcome of the first reading of the draft Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the appointment of the President of Ukraine's election as a basis and as a whole. [[Registration number 3655/1]] To speak at a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on this matter, the committee assigned either the head or the first deputy head of the committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u48	Thank you. Dear colleagues, if you have any questions, please sign in for five minutes. If you have a question, write it down for five minutes. Please sign up for a question. Sergey Sobolev, please. I'm asking everyone to calm down. Sergey Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u49	Dear Alexander Alexander! Please tell me if your committee has considered the issue of the irreversibility of the rule of the Constitution that determines the order of election. Do you think that this order of appointment of the President's election is in such a way that it is only distributed when the new President is elected and then this rule of the Constitution becomes a rule? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u50	Thank you. I briefly reported that I had considered the committee three dates of the election. I repeat, the committee has taken a legislative decision on the legal and legal issue, but of course the political view of the people of Ukraine must know from today that the Supreme Council's decree has entered into force and that there should be peace, unity, and not a disturbance of elections should take place on October 25, 2009.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u51	Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovich, a question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u52	Bondarenko!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u53	Dear colleagues! Alexandre Alexandrovich, the committee has certainly analyzed the various points of view. I would like to hear if there were any other suggestions from whom they spoke and whether there were any suggestions from the President’s Secretariat or other services in the form of such soft or hard recommendations to the committee to change that and return to a date that would add a few months to the term of the President, particularly for almost four months. Were there such suggestions or thoughts? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u54	Thank you. Dear National Deputy Vladimir Dmitrovich, I want to tell you that we are in the Hall as national MPs with politicians, and we have the ability to be either in political power or to sympathize with any political power. But when national MPs meet at a committee meeting, there should be professional lawyers, economists and, no doubt, patriots of our Ukraine. And that's why there's no different opinions on the committee -- there's different opinions. And the committee took a decision in one vote against it. I think I should call it familial, who's "for" and who's "against" it doesn't have to be. With one vote against the decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u55	Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u56	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Well, it seems to me that, indeed, there is a very strange situation when Ukrainian citizens do not know when the next election of the President of Ukraine will be. It is therefore very good that Parliament has finally decided to consider this issue. I think it's perfectly logical for the elections to be held within the five-year term of the presidency or the Yushchenk or any other president, because, indeed, if you agree that the elections are to take place on 17 January 2010, count a few months for the inauguration, for the preparations to be made for the new president to get on the case, in fact the previous President will be in office for over five years. The Constitution has been in place for five years. So I would like to thank the committee, chaired by Mr. Omelchenk, for having considered this issue, for having offered it for consideration by the Supreme Council. And let Parliament determine, and let the citizens of the country know when the presidential elections will be. It's important to understand the situation, for that.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u57	Thank you, Mr. Lazko. I thank the President for his trust. And I ask you, honourable national deputies, to support this decision by a majority of over 400 votes, and that will be the respect of the State Building Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u58	Time's up. Have a seat, please. Just a minute. Dear colleagues, we have two draft decrees here. Andrew Shevchenko, is he? Well, then, Hennaday Hennadiovich Moskal. Please. What? So wait, I'm not serving Kirilenka, it's gonna be time, we're talking about questions. Calm down. Please, Hennady Hennadiovich. [[B in m in s a l in]] Before the vote. Calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u59	Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 85, paragraph 7, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council is responsible for appointing the election of the President of Ukraine to the term prescribed by the Constitution of Ukraine. According to part of article 16 of the Ukrainian Presidential Election Act, the election of the President of Ukraine is appointed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Supreme Council takes a decision on the election of the President of Ukraine. According to part of article 17 of the Ukrainian Presidential Election Act, Ukraine’s presidential election is held on the last Sunday of October of the fifth year. Part two of article 17 of the Act stipulates that the Supreme Council of Ukraine is obliged to appoint the presidential election of Ukraine no later than 130 days before the start of the elections. Part five of article 103 of the 1996 Ukrainian Constitution, in an editorial that was valid on the day of the election of the current president of Ukraine, predicted that the Ukraine’s presidential election was held on the last Sunday of October of the fifth year. Since January 1, 2006, a new edition of part five of article 103 of the Ukrainian Constitution has become effective in accordance with the Ukrainian law of December 8, 2004. This editorial foresees that the presidential election of Ukraine is held in the last week of the fifth year of the President’s term, and thus the positions are extended not to the queue, but to the subsequent elections of the President of Ukraine, that is, after the person who will become President of Ukraine already in the Supreme Council’s term. Thus, the Constitution of Ukraine links the definition of the date of the election of the President of Ukraine according to the term of office of the President of Ukraine. This rule took effect after the election of the President of Ukraine on 26 December 2004 and after the election of the President of Ukraine on 23 January 2005. Thus, on the day of the entry of the President of Ukraine into office, the standard of part five of article 103 of the Ukrainian Constitution was in force as of June 28, 1996, according to which the presidential election of Ukraine was held on the last Sunday of October of the fifth year. The changes introduced in article 103, part 5, of the Constitution, in fact, increase the term of office of the President of Ukraine, since there is a postponement of the election date from last October to the last Sunday of the last month of the fifth year of office of the President of Ukraine. If the Supreme Council of Ukraine applies constitutional provisions regarding the terms of the election of the President of Ukraine, the amendments made to part five of article 103 of the Basic Law should be considered as giving such provisions a retroactive force of action at a time that is not in line with the basic principle of the Basic Law of Ukraine. Yes, according to article 58, part one, of the Constitution of Ukraine, laws and other legal acts have no reverse effect at the time, honourable national deputies, except when they soften or cancel a person's responsibility. The decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of 13 May 1997 on the non-conformity of the parliamentary mandate states that article 58 of the Constitution of Ukraine of 1996 establishes one of the most important universal principles of modern law: laws and other legal acts have no retroactive force in time, i.e. the act extends only to those relations that have arisen after the adoption of laws or other legal acts of validity. The principle of irreversibility also extends to the standards of the Constitution of Ukraine. In its decision of 9 February 1999 on reverse action at the time of laws and other legal acts, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine expressed the legal position that the principle enshrined in the first part of article 58 of the Constitution should be understood to mean that the act of a legal act at the time begins at the time when it becomes effective and ceases to be valid, i.e. until the event of the fact, the law or other legal act in which it took place or took place. The consolidation of this principle at the constitutional level is a guarantee of the stability of social relations, including relations between the State and the citizen, which contributes to the confidence of citizens that their situation will not deteriorate with the adoption of a later law or other legal act, including the Constitution of Ukraine. According to a decision of the Constitutional Court of 25 December 2003, the case concerning the terms of office of the President of Ukraine, part three of article 103 of the Constitution of Ukraine, does not contain any exceptions to its time limitations. There are also no warnings in other provisions of the Constitution regarding the retroactive effect of the article. This situation extends to the legal relationship that arose after the Constitution became effective. This legal position also applies to the provisions of part five of article 103 of the Ukrainian Constitution. The absence of warnings in the Constitution of Ukraine that the retroactive effect of the relevant provisions would result in the proliferation of actions and regulations in the new edition only of the legal relationship that arose after the validity of such positions. The seventh part of the first article of article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine provides for the authorization of the Supreme Council for the election of the President of Ukraine to the term defined by the Constitution to be understood in a systematic manner, not only in connection with part five of article 103 of the Basic Law of Ukraine. But part of the first article, which defines the five - year term of office of the President of Ukraine within which the next election is to take place. These lines, according to the preceding edition of part five of Article 103, are based on a clearly established day. The last Sunday of October of the last year of the President's office. Since at the time of the election of the President of Ukraine, which took place on 26 December 2004, the standard of part five of article 103 of the Constitution of Ukraine was in force, the position should be taken into account when determining the date of the presidential election. As noted above, changes to part five of article 103 of the Ukrainian Constitution, which came into force on January 1, 2006, change the terms of office of the President of Ukraine, as defined in the original edition of the Basic Law. In line with the world practice of recent examples of France, Russia and so forth, changes to the Constitution relating to the term of head of state take effect for the person chosen after the validity of such changes. This is the main part of article 17 of the “On Elections of the President of Ukraine” Act, which corresponds to part five of article 103 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which is valid at the time of election the Head of State should be applied by the Supreme Council during the appointment of the President of Ukraine's election. In view of what has been said, it is proposed that the next election of the President of Ukraine be held on Sunday, October 25, 2009.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u60	Dear colleagues, there are questions, no. Have a seat, please. Is there a need to speak from factions? No one insists on the performance? Please, Viacheslav Kirilenko's microphone. Calm down, dear fellows. And I'd like you to pick up the papers that were scattered in the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u61	Viacheslav Kirilenko. Deputies for Ukraine. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'd like to address you first of all. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, I wish to address you on behalf of the parliamentary group “For Ukraine”. It seems to us, and it doesn't exactly seem, and we're fixing these violations every day, that you're prejudiced about the members of our group, that you're giving one word with an increase in the rules, and you're not giving us any of the procedures or reasons why you're breaking the rules. We think that this approach is unfair and we see prejudice in this, this is the first. Secondly, you're a serious person and you said you'd be a serious speaker, but you're turning the second question into a circus. Yesterday you set up a commission for poisoning, which clearly proves that there was no poisoning, because that's the composition of this commission. And today you're making a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u62	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u63	Today, you are deciding on the presidential election, first of all, knowing that the President's appointment in the Constitutional Court and knowing that you're not even inviting the President's representative in the Ukrainian Parliament to listen to their position. You're asking questions and all the draft rulings haven't passed the committee review procedure and you're giving us the opportunity to discuss the matter freely, making it impossible to speak from factions and from the MPs. That's why we think that such a frivolous approach to serious things is not appropriate for a democratic speaker and we urge you not to do so anymore.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u64	Thank you! Dear National Deputies! I reject all premeditated accusations - that's the first! [[Applause]] The other one. The Supreme Council of Ukraine included almost 400 votes in the agenda. Third. The President's permanent representative should be in the Supreme Council. Four. These documents were considered by the committees and the committee took the appropriate decision. I encourage my colleagues to be at work more often than to appear like the sun and not give me advice!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u65	I turned to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for proposals from factions. If anyone insists on speaking from the faction, please sign up. From factions. And I want to say again that factions are right, not MP groups. Deputies are formed by interests in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Applause]] And don't read to me all the time! Please, from the factions. Please, Party of Regions, please. Alexander Ephraim's microphone, right? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u66	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich! The faction of the Party of the Regions believes that the MPs are returning to normal form of work and are on the path proposed by the faction of the Party of the Regions. Only for the time being, unfortunately, is it going halfway through. We support that all the power that led the people to poverty and the country to bankruptcy resign. And today, the first step has been taken towards the President, who has not actually become President in our country, so it is easy to blow him. However, in deciding, Vladimir Mihajlovich and respected colleagues, we must understand that tomorrow an appropriate submission will be submitted to the Constitutional Court and tomorrow the Constitutional Court will most likely decide that our decision today is wrong and that an attempt will be made by the President's Secretariat to hold the elections on 17 January rather than 25 October. And in this situation, we must understand that our efforts together to overcome the pressure that will be exerted on Parliament will need to complete the path that we have begun today. And I hope that in this way, once again, one of the great factions, as it does and going to the President, will not fail to agree once again on all the issues that exist. For my part, I would like to stress once again that we insist that the next issue that has been considered and supported in Parliament is the resignation of the Government, which has led the country to poverty and is today the poorest country in the European State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u67	Who's next? Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u68	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, the Company's faction will support the proposal to announce the President's election date on 25 October. We come from the following, especially the will expressed by the people of Ukraine. He has long denied the President's trust and all sociological research confirms that the President, as President and as political forces, who have led him to power, is ultimately without the support and trust of our people today, and that is obvious. This is or is the cause of all the activities carried out in the country by the institution of the Presidency: these are, first of all, violations of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine; these are the destruction of the judicial system; this is the destruction of the economic base of our country; this is, of course, the organization, in fact, of the State policy that leads to the Fascism of society; this is the humiliation and insult of the veterans of the Great Homeland War and the heroic feat that has been committed by the Soviet people; this is the exacerbation of relations today with the brotherly peoples and the organization of energy supplies with the Russian Federation; this is also a problem that has contributed to the strengthening of corruption in power, and the takeovers are now practically in power, ranging from low-level structures to faith. Therefore, we call upon all of you, respected by our colleagues, as those who declare that we are the electorates of the people today will hear our people about it or that they do not want us to continue to have a President like Yushchenko. Therefore, I believe that this issue must be resolved and resolved immediately, on the one hand. However, I propose not to take action as it is proposed today in a step-by-step manner, but to address this issue radically, starting with the President's impeachment procedure, because the acts he has committed fall under the Criminal Code and he must be criminally responsible for the crimes committed. His groanings and blemishes yesterday, which were and are allegedly called the President's message, the brightest confirmation, he doesn't know what he's doing in the country at all, except by mitigating his ambitions in this chair. Therefore, I propose and appeal to the Party of the Regions, first of all, support and give your signature to the initiation of the impeachment procedure, let us, together with this decision, begin the removal of it for crimes committed and not just set the date of the election. Thus, we will show the people that we stand on the side of the interests of the people of Ukraine, not on the side of the interests of the oligarchs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u69	Our People's Self-Defense faction, who will be speaking? Please, Mikola Martinenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, we must stop intrigues in politics. What we have is what happens when we don't know if we're going to have parliamentary elections for the term or not, or when the President's date is coming. You have to put a dot on this. I trust the legal conclusion of the committee that made this decision. That's the first question. The second question. Ask the population if they want a New Year’s election campaign and Christmas? I don't think so. So we have to stop the discussion and put a draft decision to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u71	It's a BUT faction. Who will act? Upstairs, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u72	Dear colleagues and honourable voters, I would like to remind you of one of the main slogans of President Yushchenk: the law is one for all. Now for the Constitutional Court. If there's an appeal to the Constitutional Court, there's a very important, highly trained lawyer, they understand that if you take the President's side and you give him the opportunity to vote today on a new constitution, it's to balance power in the country. This means that local councils will need to be given and chosen according to a new constitution. Then in the electoral process of the country, when we first elect the president, then the city heads, then we'll start choosing local councils. And what's that going to be? This election process will take about a year and a half. People can't take it. So today, article 58 of the Constitution is in force, and the law of retroactive force is not in force. And so, as the committee decided, rejecting Shevchenk's bill and supporting Moskal's bill, we have to vote in the hall. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u73	Thank you. Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u74	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! You know, I wouldn't want to react here to the moralism that was directed to the Head of the Supreme Council, because, you know, moralization needs to be done when unfair decisions are made, or when decisions are deliberately taken that countries need to make in order to implement a common scenario with one of the factions. Here I would like more morality, not hypocrisy, not hypocrisy, not double standards. I think that the question that's being addressed right now is really relevant, because I can see that people who are never in the room are jumping or jumping, who only appear when they need to be accompanied by a leader, or some new strategy about breaking parliament up, adopting, or developing strategies, implementing with regard to the dissolution of the Supreme Council, and so forth. Obviously, the question is really relevant then. The position of the “Lithuania Block” faction is clear and consistent The question to be settled must be settled. Getting into this question will create new crisis situations, new intrigues, new subterranean arrangements, new germinations, new reflections, everything from the vocabulary of certain of our opponents, everything that is. That's why we're not just calling, but we're going to vote in favour of resolving the issue that has to be settled in any civilized country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u75	Dear colleagues, the factions are over. According to regulations, if MPs are willing to speak, they have the right to do so. Please sign up. Very important question, let's not make any accusations, please, for 15 minutes. Write down the MPs who would like to speak on this matter. It's a recording, please. National Deputy Korge, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u76	Please pass the word to Javorovski Volodymyr Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u77	Who will be speaking.? Vladimir Yavorowski? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, our constituents! It seems to me that the decision in the Supreme Council, most of which are at least national deputies, has matured, and I am convinced that it will be adopted in just a few minutes. It seems to me that this decision is objective, and I feel that it will be fully supported by Ukrainian society. There were a lot of different references here, and I think there's a lot of very fair arguments, about how to postpone the President's election to January-month, that's when Christmas holidays come along, and when New Year's celebrations go on and on and on. Because of this date, it is truly acceptable, it is absolutely legal. I have the moral right to speak on this matter. I recently wrote and published, published an open letter to President Viktor Yushchenko. I said moral law because I went through with Victor Yushchenk, along with a lot of my colleagues in the election campaign, I believed very deeply in Yushchenka, I was convinced that Ukraine would have a very good, moral, patriotic president. I can say today that I have no doubt about the Ukrainianity, the patriotism of Victor Yushchenk, but it turns out that he did not become the Ukrainian President at all, he was not the President of the State, yet very weak, who hardly stands on his feet. His intention, his improvisation is excessive, and so many mistakes he's made today, that we really, I'm convinced that we just have to live through these months to the presidential election, because those concessions that were made, the surrender of many, even national interests, I hate to say, but that was it. I say again, President Viktor Yushchenko has not happened. Because of this, the Ukrainian people, who are now disappointed in the President, are likely to choose another person. I'm not aging for anyone, it's our people's business, but I'm convinced that Ukraine needs a strong personality, a person who will have haircuts, a colossal national haircut, not just in an embroidered shirt there, or, let's say, in some other national attribute, but who will know that this state needs to be built hard, it needs to make decisions that are unpopular. That's why I'm convinced it's okay. The Yulia Timoshenko Block will vote in favour of this decision, I'm sure in a few minutes it'll be made -- it's a fair decision, it's a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u79	Peter Simonenko hands over the right to speak to Ally Alexandrowski, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u80	Dear colleagues! Once again, I would like to reiterate the position of the Communists that we are insisting on the initiation of the impeachment procedure. As far as the presidential election is concerned. With regard to the election of the President, we have no moral right with you to remain silent and pretend that there have been no multiple violations of the laws of Ukraine and the Constitution by the highest official, the President of Ukraine. We are with you people's deputies, we have witnessed repeatedly the violation of the Constitution, the laws of Ukraine, and if we remain silent with you, we will in fact give you the opportunity to do the same to the future President. The faction of the Communists therefore insists on the initiation of an impeachment procedure, which will consist in the fact that the Supreme Council Hall will be given a legal assessment of the President's decrees, actions, actions. This assessment will be an actual legal assessment of its activities and will give the whole nation the basis for a proper assessment of the entire phase of President Yushchenk's action. I want to remind you what the presidency was all about. It started with a false attempt. to take an oath in this Chamber of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and in the same way all the activities of our so-called President were false, as evidenced by the statements made by those who were with him in 2004, hoped, trusted him and today found disappointment, observed that they were deceived as a lie against the entire people of Ukraine. So once again, our position with you must be clear and clear. We have an obligation with you to give a legal assessment of the actions of the President during his entire term of office. If we do not do so with you, we take responsibility for the fact that such actions are possible in the future and the next person to be elected to the highest office. Therefore, once again, the position of the Communists is clear and understandable: we must give you and you a legal assessment of the actions taken by the President in order to end, after all, the violation of the Constitution, of the laws of Ukraine in order to protect the sovereignty of our State, because a State cannot be sovereign if it is not legal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u81	People's deputy Glazunov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Hanna Herman, please, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u82	I'll tell you briefly: justice is, we have to choose it, and we have to vote for that date of the President's election, which is exactly 5 years old -- October 25th of this year. And we will end this story once and for all. I'll tell you a little parable like this. The Lord went with St. Peter, and they were led astray. And around, you know, this orange autumn, you can't see. And they're looking, there's a guy under the toy, and he's beautiful, he's tall, he's black. They ask him: “Show us the way.” And the young man, without standing up, with his foot, shows, "He is there." They're moving on. Then they don't know how to go. And there's the girl on the pool of laundry feathers. And they asked her, “How are we going? ” She left her underwear, ran, showed. And Saint Peter says, “Lord, how shall we repay her?” And the Lord says, “You know, we will give her that which is under the toy, for without it he will perish.” For five years, they were tormented together. Now it is necessary to leave what is under the pear, and give the girl a good pair so that they can run this country well. Let's do it on October 25th of this year.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u83	The People's Deputy of Paris, the faction “Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense”. Viachelav Kirilenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u84	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “For Ukraine” MP. Dear colleagues, honourable voters, I, on the one hand, am grateful to the Head of the Supreme Council for opening the debate. I think he's done quite wisely and fairly. At the same time, accusing me of not going to work, on your part, Mr. Chief of the Supreme Council, is at least easy. Because the whole country sees me going to work every day. Likewise, I urge you, Mr Head of the Supreme Council, not to turn your head away from the parliamentary group “For Ukraine” when we want to say the word of the truth. We realize that you are uncomfortable with that word of truth because you thought you had a monopoly on it until recently. Now you're a member of the coalition, you're one of the leaders of the coalition, and so have the courage to listen sometimes and the uncomfortable things to yourself. We urge you to do so. On these questions, what is there today? We felt that the Constitution provided a comprehensive answer to the question that we are considering today. Because the Constitution speaks clearly of the President’s election of the last week of the fifth year of the President’s term of office. And this is January of the month, take the notebooks, count it. You want October 25th? Please. Apparently, there are at least five presidents here who have already grown up and think that the Presidential card is already in their pocket and they want it faster: I think they're both wrong. But let them fight to ensure that only the country wins. In this regard, I would like to ask a colleague: What are we afraid of when we now consider this matter in a fireful manner? Parliamentary elections in turn? The question is, Who declares them? Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, do you have any information on the President's order? Please publish this information. We are, for example, against the successive elections to Parliament, the entire Za Ukraine MP as against the President's out-of-court elections. At your place, maybe. Any more information, any other position? Make it public. Do not force the fire to accept things that may be canceled. And last of all, I think we're always the victims of politics: some of tomorrow want to block the rostrum, and so by running, we have to take everything today, others are afraid of some sort of turnout election. Dear colleagues, and our position, which we can talk about with dignity, regardless of the color of our party tickets, we have or are not, or are constantly being driven by a stake, excuse me, to one place, because we are afraid of someone outside of Parliament who can make a decision. What kind of parliament are we after, and what kind of anti-crisis issues can we consider? I don't think there's been a serious conversation about this, and that's unfortunate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u85	The Zabzaluk People's Deputy, the Timoshenko Yuli Block, is handing over the right to speak to Volodymyr Bondarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u86	Dear friends, TV and radio and listeners! I would like to point out that today our discussion is going in a number of directions. Well, first of all, we start giving characteristics to the President. I would like to go back to the legal aspects of the problem that are at stake today. This is about organizing a very important legal aspect of the election of the head of state. Whether it's good or bad, we have to apply the same legal rules again, and the following, and today's, rules. The point is that the committee considered these legal aspects very thoroughly and made a proposal based on the law. To cure someone by cancelling the Constitutional Court, he must also be based on the laws of Ukraine, on the Constitution of Ukraine, and certainly, if he is a legal person, he can't undo anything. In the same way, the action and the other faction is built on what they want to preserve, well, they think of their President as long as possible. To me, he is the President of Ukraine, and he must comply with the law. So I would like us to make a legal decision today. And so we don't scare each other, somebody jumps. Excuse me, dear friends, we have nowhere to go, we already have practice when we agreed to act in some way to establish problems with the Constitution, and then a team from a couple of oligarchs didn't do it. So let's be honest with ourselves in the end. In this room today, I think there is a consensus on the legal solution to the issue of the President’s terms. And there's nothing to play here, to give characteristics. These characteristics of the President and his activities will be given by the people. After the elections have been announced, he will vote for either, or for another, by electing the President of Ukraine. So I'm sure that the sociology that is today is built on people's thoughts and positions. And it doesn't matter that Yushchenko has less than three percent of the support today, he has to work out his term. And I wish we didn't get mixed up here with the President's impeachment and so on. It is virtually impossible to bring it into force today, although many in this room are in a mood to break up with the person who has led Ukraine to the state in which we are today. But once again, I call for a legal decision and I propose to support the project that was announced here today on behalf of the Committee on State Building and Self-Government by Mr. Moskal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u87	Vladimir Stretovic, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u88	Vladimir Stretović, Party of the Christian-Democratic Union, faction "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense". Dear colleagues, the question is not as simple as it seems, and the discussion that unfolded in this room is this testimony. In our recent history, there was a fact that President Kuchma stood up for five years and then entered into force in the 1996 Constitution, which set the date for the presidential election, the last Sunday of October of the fifth year. In fact, he worked for five years and four months. When we wrote the 1996 Constitution, we came out of what we set a stable election date -- the last Sunday of October -- plus the second round, plus the inauguration, and in fact every President would be nominally five years without a few days. The question now on the right is that the 2004 presidential candidates, speaking of this high office, knew that they would be converted on the last Sunday of October 2009. They went there knowingly. The changes to the Constitution came into effect on May 1, 2006. There is a rule in the right that no one can change the procedure during its operation, no one can be a judge in his case, according to Roman law. So in this situation, if we want to establish a legal tradition, we need to set a rule that we can change the mandate of the mayors only for those who come after these measures, but not for those who are now acting. You can change the President's rule for the next president, not that now. You can change the deputy's salary, but not for yourself, but for those who come after us, and then we'll set up a tradition, and then we'll set up a tradition. I understand that you are in the vast majority of politics, not lawyers, but I call you right, because the ancient Romans said, "You don't know how to do what is right - by law." And there's nothing left for us to do about the election for the last Sunday of October of the fifth year, which is October 25th. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u89	Dear colleagues! The discussion is over, and I think that we have fully complied with the Rules in order to deal with the issue. I'm going to put it to a vote, please, in order to register the rulings. Andrew Shevchenk's first decision on the appointment of the President's next election on Sunday, December 27. [[3655]] And the second decree of Gennady Hennadyovich Moskal concerning the appointment of the President of Ukraine's election on Sunday, October 25. [[3655-1]] At the same time, if it's accepted, I'll say my point of view. Dear colleagues! We make, not legal decisions, but political decisions. That we were aware of this, from this point of view, I will no longer impose my point of view, but that you will be aware of the decisions you make. May I have your attention, please? The first is the draft Decree 3655, which is the author of the draft decree, which reads: “The Supreme Council of Ukraine decides to appoint the President of Ukraine to the next election on Sunday, December 27, 2009.” [[11:38:43]] For 1 The decision is not taken. Now, if you'll have your attention. The draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the appointment of the President of Ukraine's election is put to the vote. [[Registration number 3655-1]] [[author - National Deputy of Ukraine Hennaday Moskal]] I'll read this order. “In accordance with article 58, paragraph 7, of the first part of article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, pursuant to article 16 and part one and two of article 17 of the Ukrainian Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides. First. Assign the President of Ukraine's next election on Sunday, October 25, 2009. The other one. This decision takes effect from the day it is published.” I'm betting on voting for a draft ruling as a ruling. Registration number 3655-1. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:39:52]] For 401 I'll take the order. The factions, please. Region Party – 174, “Clock Timoshenko” – 155, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” – 26, Communist faction – 27, “Clock of Lithuania” – 19. Once again, we made a political decision! Dear colleagues, we're under review, please pay attention, we're now under consideration, under the section on ratification, and we need to consider two documents now. This is registration number 0112, the draft law on Ukraine's accession to the Conventions for the Protection of Children and Cooperation in Inter-State Adoption, as well as the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislation in connection with Ukraine's accession to the Convention on the Protection of Children and Cooperation in Inter-State Adoption. Registration number 3550. At the same time, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, in the case of the Minister for Family Affairs, Youth and Sports, Pavelka Jurija Alexiyovich, requests the Supreme Council of Ukraine to postpone consideration of these two documents until the next plenary meeting, for the next plenary week in view of the fact that a number of factions have put their warnings to these documents. No warning? Is it? Please, Adam Martinyuk. I'm asking for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u90	Thank you! Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Well, there might be an offer, but let them show us a letter from the Cabinet of Ministers signed by the Prime Minister about what they're asking to move. That's the first one. The other one. And what does the Cabinet of Ministers and Ministers have to do with this, please tell me. This is the submission of the President of Ukraine. If there's a motion from the President of Ukraine that he's asking to move, let them move. This is another moment. And the third, the most important. You can't consult, because, unfortunately, in this Convention, unlike many others, there is a 40th article of the Convention, which warns that none of the States that wants to join this Convention have the right to make any changes. This is a rare occurrence in international law, and this is precisely what the Convention says. So I'd like to consider today, if there's a decision by the Supreme Council to move, that's another matter. But not on the request of the Cabinet of Ministers, which, once again, has nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u91	Thank you. I'll ask the minister to briefly state the essence of your proposals and then I'll put it to the vote on the postponement of the debate. If the Supreme Council doesn't support it, we'll consider it. I'd like the minister to convince the national MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u92	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! Indeed, the bill was introduced by the President of Ukraine and authorized me as the Minister of Ukraine for Family, Youth and Sports to present these bills in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. That's why a number of questions were raised at factions' meetings, and there were requests from a number of factions in particular, and factions of the Party of the Regions moved the issue to the next plenary meeting with a view to finding and answering a number of questions that arose in the discussion process. I must point out that in four years, we have really succeeded in making an effective national policy of ensuring the child’s right to be brought up in the family. We have created and actively developed national adoption as a priority that we have chosen for ourselves and these trends are confirmed. And this year, when in the first quarter, twenty percent more children were adopted by Ukrainian citizens than in the previous year. We today have no interstate adoption of children under the age of six, healthy and thus our policy is effective. At the same time, the Convention allows us to control and protect our children, who were already adopted by foreign citizens by 2009. But there are a number of points that need to be found in the interests of the Ukrainian State and in the interests of the Ukrainian child. So I would like to request that, as authorized by the President to present these bills, I should like to postpone the consideration of this issue to the next plenary week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u93	Dear colleagues, I will now put to the vote this motion for a transfer to the next plenary week to consider two bills, registration numbers 0112 and 3550, please support. Please vote on the transfer. [[11:45:20.]] For-80 The decision is not supported. So another proposal, honourable colleagues, because we have a lot of bills, we've spent a lot of time and MPs come along and insist that their bills, which they are the authors, be considered today. So I'm going to put a proposal to the vote so that we can look at the simplified procedure for the issues set out in the schedule for today. Please vote in favour of the reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[11:45:57]] For-174 Decision taken. The draft Law on Ukraine’s Association to the Convention on the Protection of Children and Cooperation in Inter-State Adoption, Registration No. 0112, as well as the Draft Law on the Amendment of Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine in connection with Ukraine’s accession to the Convention on the Protection of Children and Cooperation in Inter-State Adoption, Registration No. 3550, has been announced for consideration. Reporter - Minister for Family Affairs, Youth and Sports Yuri Alexiyovich Pavlenko, co - reporter - head of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport and Tourism, Lukyanov Catherine Eugene.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u94	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Indeed, over the past four years, we have succeeded in adopting an effective national policy aimed at the realization of the child’s primary right — parenting in the family. I want to point out that, and you can look at this table, which, in comparison to 2004-2008, when we were born every day 1160 children, and today, in 2008, 1402 children are born every day in Ukraine and 60 children are orphaned by no more than 50 children. At the same time, they get the right to a new orphanage family in 2008, against 50, who orphaned 60 children every day find a new family against 45, as was the case in 2004. Thus, we have come up with an effective policy when every child who loses a family finds a new family for various reasons and finds the opportunity to grow in the family environment. In addition, a separate position relates to adoption. Thus, by 2005, we had a steady increase in interstate adoption and national adoption. We have identified the reasons why and together with the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers, the President made a number of legislative changes that radically changed the situation. And since 2006, there has been an ever-increasing national adoption, which has grown almost twice in these four years and has declined interstate adoption. In addition, the latest figures for the first quarter of 2009, despite the crisis, 480 Ukrainian families adopted orphans, children deprived of parental care, which is 20 percent more than in the same period last year. And this trend is going to continue, I'm sure. We have a situation today, a unique situation that we haven't had in many years, and in fact, in all years of independence, when the number of children who have found a new family has exceeded the number of children who have lost their parents. In addition, there are 30, slightly more than 32, 000 children in the adoption database today, including interstate adoption, or adoption by foreign citizens, who may be around 19,000 children. And what I want to say is that children under the age of 6 are now adopted up to 10 percent of the total. No child who is subject to intercountry adoption is healthy, that is, one who has no health problems. As a result, children today are mostly adopted by Ukrainian citizens. And it's a huge acquisition and a credit to what the Ukrainian state has done. At the same time, I would like to point out that more than 20,000 Ukrainian children have been adopted by foreign citizens over the years of independence. Regrettably, the existing procedure today, that is, the family’s obligation to report, is not in the best interests of the child’s protection. Because the family report is very often available, but we have no guarantees, and our consular authorities have the opportunity to examine in detail the situation of the child. Moreover, no guarantees.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u95	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u96	No guarantee is given to the State to which the child was adopted. That is why the Hague Convention on Interstate Adoption, ratified by 76 nations of the world today, was adopted at its own time. It is ratified by virtually all countries of the European Union, the United States of America, that is, ratified by those states where Ukrainian children today are adopted by the citizens of these countries, and according to Ukrainian legislation for children under the age of 18 remain the right to acquire Ukrainian citizenship, that is, to choose for themselves at the age of 18 as a citizen of the State where they are adopted, or to preserve Ukrainian citizenship. That is why I think it is important for Ukraine to join the Hague Convention in order to work in a single field of child protection regarding issues related to intercountry adoption. There are a number of warnings about the position, the only position of the Hague Convention on the work of accredited agencies engaged in inter-State adoptions operating in other countries. But I would like the people's deputies to make decisions today to realize clearly that, unfortunately, there are mediators in Ukraine, even though they are forbidden by the law that they are involved in interstate adoption. They act illegally, creating very many difficult moments for both the modern and the future of the child. The Hague Convention removes all these things and allows transparent procedures to be created here in inter-State adoption. At the same time, I am convinced that in the absence of ratification of this convention, the Supreme Council should also not be afraid and then make radical decisions about imposing, for example, a moratorium on inter-State adoption. And that's one of the ways, because you can't do things as important as adoption, or adoption in areas where Ukrainian legislation doesn't work. And without rules, without rules, and without the legal ability to control a child. So I'm going to the Supreme Council of Ukraine before I vote, to think that this mechanism, the Hague Convention, is an additional tool, one of the tools to protect our child, who is already adopted and abroad, to learn his fate and to oblige the governments of those States to seriously defend and report to the Ukrainian State for.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u97	Thank you. Thank you, sit down, please. Committee position. Catherine Eugenovna Lukyanova will make this point with regard to Bills 0112 and 3550.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u98	Dear colleagues, the committee will consider bills on Ukraine’s accession to the Convention on the Protection of Children and Cooperation on Interstate Adoption and amending some of Ukraine’s legislative acts in connection with Ukraine’s accession to the Convention. Regarding the statements proposed to the law, the committee believes that the name of the central authority responsible for inter-State adoption should be harmonized. This will meet the requirements of design technology. The Health Committee does not support Ukraine’s accession to this convention. The Committee on Budget Affairs has decided that the draft bill on Ukraine's accession to the convention has an impact on the spending of the budget, increasing it, although the drafters have concluded that no additional budget expenditure is required by the bills. According to article 40, articles of the convention are not allowed. Since changes cannot be made to the convention, such changes must be made to existing legislation in order to significantly strengthen the control over the adoption of children by foreign citizens. At the same time, Bill 3550, which proposes to amend Ukraine’s legislative acts in connection with Ukraine’s accession to the Convention on the Protection of Children and Cooperation in Interstate Adoption, has made many observations. This is a comment by the Chief Scientific and Expert Office and the Health Committee on the need to finalize the changes proposed for effective legislation in connection with the accession to this Convention. In accordance with Bill No. 3550, activities are permitted in our State of Authorized Organizations, agencies for the adoption of foreign countries, which, in accordance with articles 9 and 22 of the Conventions, central government authorities authorize them to perform the functions of adoption. The greatest number of complaints is caused by this very provision of the Convention on the Creation of Accredited Organizations. The accredited organizations of the Hague Convention are the mediators who are primarily involved in the interests of adopted children. In the state of such organizations there should be psychologists, social workers, pediatricians preparing the family for adoption, further supervision of the adoption of the child and, above all, in accordance with article 11 of the Convention, they should have only non-profit objectives set by the competent authorities of the State of accreditation. According to the 32 articles, no one should receive unjustifiable financial rewards from activities related to intercountry adoption. And how the justification for this financial advantage is determined. The Committee believes that the legislative consolidation of the respective powers under such accredited state-organizations is of particular importance to Ukraine as a donor country. In our view, we need to develop a special law that would determine the basic legal principles of the activities of these organizations, because the bill provides for the regulation of their activities only by the regulations and regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The committee does not support the proposed changes regarding the possibility of notifying the written consent of parents to adoption, which does not correspond to the normal order of mandatory certification of such consent only by notary. By supporting changes to the fourth part of article 236 to prejudice the abuse of health facilities or educational institutions when adopting a child, we suggest making such changes to this article that, in the event that these institutions consent to adoption for beneficial reasons, such adoptions would be considered null and void by decision of the court. I would also like to point out that the resolution of the 2008 Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe states that adoption has become a market and that the lack of babies in the West, which could be adopted, makes the problem even worse. The committee's decision. First. To recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the results of the first reading of draft Bill No. 3550 on amending some of Ukraine’s legislative acts in connection with Ukraine’s accession to the Convention on the Protection of Children and on cooperation on interstate adoption of the subject of the right of legislative initiative to work. The other one. Bearing in mind that, in accordance with article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts, draft legislative acts, which need to be adopted under an international treaty, are adopted.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u99	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u100	adopted simultaneously with the draft Law on Ratification, the committee is proposing, accordingly, Bill No. 0112: on Ukraine's accession to the Convention on the Protection of Children and Cooperation on Inter-State Adoption – also to direct the subject of the right of legislative initiative to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u101	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's see if we can work out these two documents, and then we can call it a break. Is there no objection? Then I ask you to sign up for the exchange of information on Bills 0112 and 3550. A recording of the performance is being made. Please put the names of the people's deputies on the board. Lilia Stepanovna Grigorovich, faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u102	Lilia Grigorovich, MP “For Ukraine!” Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! First of all, I took the floor to emphasize in this inseparable parliament, because just now the question was more interesting, that in times of crisis, we still have gains. We cannot boast about GDP growth today, jobs, many other social indicators, but I would like to point out that in the last four years every day, I emphasize, every day in Ukraine is born with 368 or 370 more babies. They're not going to vote for things tomorrow, they're not going to support politics or political power -- they're going to be working for Ukraine in 15, 20, 30 years. And God forbid we keep these trends. So when we say what has been done in recent times, I want to say that more children in Ukraine are born, less orphans. And now for the Hague Convention. Yes, indeed, Ukraine remained a white spot among many other countries that ratified the convention. The non-admission of this act, by the way, I have a feeling that this could happen again in Ukraine, for some reason. There have been abuses of adoption of children before the establishment of a center for adoption and adoption of legislation. And this trend, this oscillum, this memory is stored, is the first. Second, today, at such an unforgivable time, this question can be used in Ukraine for political purposes. And a lot of political forces are afraid they're going to say for me that I wanted to sell kids. Then prove you don't have a daughter. And literally the last thing that I would like to stress on this occasion is, unfortunately, you can't change the convention because it's a whole act. And we can either ratify it or not ratify it. In view of this, it is hypothetical in civil society and in the rule of law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u103	Taras Blackwall, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u104	I ask you to pass the word to Leonid Kojari while he goes to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u105	Leonid Kojara.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u106	I'm sure I'll be personally supportive. That's why I pressed "for." But his motives are very serious, and I ask that his position be taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u107	Thank you, Mr. Head! Dear Ukrainian deputies, I don't understand a few things. Well, first of all, I don't understand why we're looking at this bill today, because profile committees have said to send it out for work. And second of all, I don't understand that we're taking his obvious lobbyist stuff to our hall today and looking in the sessional order. Are there problems today in the area of adoption? Yes, they exist. Moreover, 10 years ago they existed even more. At that time, however, the State did not create appropriate mechanisms for adoption and proper legislation. Today the problem is that certain structures, lobbying structures are trying to bypass this legislation. And we know the cases that are happening today, they don't happen that Ukraine can't properly provide adoption procedures, but that all the structures that are involved are corrupt, trying to bypass them and so on. What is proposed to us today in this convention that we are to ratify? Well, first of all, I want to say that there are international instruments, conventions, agreements that bring Ukraine closer to certain possibilities, they're approaching the path of Euro-integration and so on. This convention is a typical example of how developed Western countries try to resolve their issues in less developed countries, such as Ukraine and some others. And let's take a look at some of the specific positions of the proposed convention that actually offers us instead of the state bodies that are today called upon to deal with adoption issues, to create, in fact, commercial intermediation structures in Ukraine and to give our citizens away, and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u108	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u109	Citizens of minors, and give consideration to the adoption of these commercial structures. I propose to the Supreme Council today not to postpone consideration of the matter, but not to return to it at all and give up its consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u110	Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u111	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, we suggest that you do not support today's proposal to ratify this convention. Let's start with the next one. The experience of building an independent State of Ukraine confirms that, unfortunately, such laws are lobbying for those who have started implementing business over the years, a new business is trafficking in children. I would like to remind you that those who spoke most of these regions about the independent State, which is in the region of Ivano-Frankov, in the region of Lviv have begun to trade children in Ukraine for years of independence. That's where this disease started, and it still doesn't calm anyone down today. It was there that the foundations of what was born today were flawed by all States. We must cure the causes of the truth of what is happening. And in this case, it is not an attempt to transfer responsibility for the upbringing of its citizens, young citizens, to other States and other families that adopt them, especially in their State of Ukraine, to create appropriate conditions. What are the circumstances in which the child is born? And that's unemployment, social illness, drug addiction, too, let's say, lack of opportunities to grow up in kindergartens. I am no longer saying that pioneer camps, what they have done with them and where they have been laid down, children’s, preschool institutions, the lack of access for our children to the same cultural palaces, cultural institutions, and much more. Therefore, when we speak of these problems, we must now create the prerequisites for a Ukrainian citizen, first of all, to have the opportunity to be educated in his country rather than to be educated outside of his country, and, more so, the impartiality that is now flourishing and growing in Ukraine. I address you, my respectable colleagues, and it is child labour that is primarily used here by you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u112	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u113	It is the child labour prohibited by law that is used here in Ukraine to obtain excess income. Therefore, gentlemen, who have factories, factories, steamboats and planes, share this profit with your country so that our children will be raised in their home country rather than outcasts in foreign countries.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u114	Thank you. Dear colleagues, John Kirilenko, please. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u115	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the faction does not support the adoption of such a bill. The arguments were made in this regard. And I ask you to pass the word to Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u116	Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u117	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u118	This is a violation of the Rules. But with one minute, please. And let's not do that again. Note.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u119	I won't repeat myself. I mean, Vladimir Mikhailovich, we have a Human Rights Commissioner present. We have to give her a word on this. I'm asking you to do this. That's the first one. The other one. I mean, our kids today don't know what's wrong with them, and the fate of them doesn't know them. This is especially true in the United States and elsewhere. And for that reason, the President was also addressed, and the Commissioner, and the national MPs, and we did everything to make sure that no such order was made. This law has been passed three times in this room. Why are you taking it out? I'm asking everyone here today to give a zero and show that laws against Ukrainian citizens are not meant to be passed here. It's a law about disrespecting each other. I don't want to quote what the proposal is for amendments to article 216 of the Family Code, which provides for the possibility of an organization of a foreign state providing services of a different nature for adoption. In fact, the Chicago Chamber of Commerce wanted to adopt, make decisions about our children. We don't have today.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u120	Thank you. I want to, Yuri Anatoliyovich, I want to ask you not to direct me. We need to take a decision on this matter from the Supreme Council. Now it's the judge. Well, please, I'm betting on the vote, who for giving the right to speak to the Commissioner of Human Rights, three minutes, please make up your mind, please, I put it to a vote. There's no motive. [[12:09:21]] For 212 You can see perfectly that. Dear colleagues! You don't have to. I'm asking you, let's not embarrass each other, but you see that there are no people, you don't embarrass each other. For reasons of what? Please, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u121	Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! I would like to remind you that Mrs. Karpachev is the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights. And when we're here today with one of you, we tell you that this law either violates or protects the rights of Ukrainian citizens, especially when it comes to young children, Ukrainian citizens. The Supreme Council is obliged to give the word Carpachius, and otherwise we are empowered by human rights if we do not want to hear it, especially when it comes to the protection of the rights of Ukrainian children. I propose to return to the vote, to support, to allow the Ombudsman's position to be expressed, and then to make a conscious decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u122	Thank you. I want to tell you once again, my fellow Members, if we're the Supreme Council and we follow the rules, I'll put it to the vote. Now I'm going to put the vote again, but, dear fellows, we can make decisions, give the floor when there is a decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So please, who in favour of returning to the vote to give the floor to the three-minute speech of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, please vote. [[12:11:14]] For 362 Decision taken. Please, Nina Ivanovna. They're back, I'm sorry. I now put to the vote the right to speak for three minutes of the authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, please vote. [[12:11:43]] For-360 Decision taken. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u123	Thank you, Mr. Head, thank you, distinguished national deputies. And I just want to remind you that in your rules of procedure, the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, this right to speak is already provided for by your vote. Thank you again. Briefly on the question that is being addressed today for the fourth time in the sessional hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The point is that some countries have long been lobbying for adoption of orphans from their own national interests. In 1996, Ukraine in this room made transparent arrangements in national legislation, amended the Family Code, the Criminal Code of Ukraine, and was criminalized for mediocrity. We did everything we could, even passed the adoption order through the courts, because the children on the list were adopted by the governors, the heads of the district councils. That is, the Supreme Council took all the steps, primarily in accordance with the basic UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. This convention, I say again, does not suit the national interests of Ukraine, but in 1996 we did implement those norms of the Convention that suit our national interests. And then we set up a state center, a center for the adoption of Ukrainian orphans, and we put this issue under control, which was completely opaque until then. After the creation of a ministry headed by the distinguished George Pavlovenko, this function was transferred to a special department. The adoption center was eliminated as a state structure and transferred to the Ministry. Under the Consular Statute, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine is obliged to control all children who are to be billed by foreign nationals. Moreover, the Ukrainian Parliament, at my suggestion, amended legislation and made the only exception to the rule of dual citizenship. Our orphans leave their citizenship until they're 18, and some of them have returned because of the humiliation of their national dignity, and we gave them that right. I'm paying attention again. The convention does not contain any warnings that we may be able to make with you. That's why it opens up locks for open legal intermediation and thus legalizes the sale of children in Ukraine so far. So I urge you all to finally put a dot on this. Once again, for the fourth time, give back to those who lobby for this Convention. I ask you not to support this ratification. But again, since 2000, we have asked the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Family and Youth.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u124	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u125	And the main thing is that it has to be an exception to the rules. We don't need a convention, we have all the children of our orphans to leave in Ukraine and really continue the process that has been initiated today by all our conscious really patriotic statesmen. I wish us success! Let's protect our orphans! Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u126	Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. I just want to inform our colleague Kojar, who expressed his surprise at why these bills came to the Supreme Council. The committee's decision, as you know, doesn't mean it's final. The Supreme Council makes the final decision, taking into account the committee’s decision, because they have reached the session hall. Dear colleagues, I will now put to the vote the adoption of the Act on Ukraine's accession to the Convention on the Protection of Children and Cooperation on Interstate Adoption. Registration No. 0112. [[12:16:33]] For-34 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, now by the logic of things, we cannot consider 3,550, for it is a matter of enacting a law in connection with the adoption of the Law on Ratification of the Convention on the Protection of Children and Cooperation in Interstate Adoption. Am I right, Mr. Minister? That's why we're taking the next 3550 bill off the table. Dear colleagues, there is a break of up to 12 hours 48 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u127	continue our work. At the same time, my distinguished colleagues, I am addressing factions leaders, there is this proposal at 14 hours 15 minutes to hold meetings of the Conciliation Council with the participation of faction leaders to discuss a number of issues, including those relating to the constitutional process, and have determined on the recommendations in the Supreme Council of Ukraine how to continue to organize our lives. At 2:00 p.m., 15 minutes in the office of the Chief of Staff of the Supreme Council. Ladies and gentlemen, we continue our work. The draft Law on the Ratification of the Financial Agreement between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank is being announced for consideration. The rapporteur is Minister of Fuel and Energy Sold Yuri Vasilovich, co-rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Oleg Grigorovich Belarus. Please, Yuri Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u128	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! It's a high-voltage construction project. How much time?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u129	Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u130	The construction project of the 750 kV high-volt air line is a self-sustaining investment project. The project involves maximizing the installed power of the Equinox and Hmelnian nuclear power plants; increasing the energy stability of consumers in the central part of Ukraine’s combined energy system; primarily the Kiev power node; and removing 750 kW from the polluted zone of the Chernobyl nuclear power plant. The project will include the construction of a 750 - kilometer - long 750 - mile [353 km] airline, construction from the west of the 750 - mile [750 km] Hmelnicka AES - Chernobyl substation 135 km]. What are the expected results of this project. First of all. This is an increase in the dusty production of electricity produced at nuclear power plants. This electricity is cheaper, which is convenient for our economy. The need for coal and gas is decreasing. The reduction in the need for an energy sector in coal or gas is about 1.2 million tons of conditional fuel, or if you convert it to gas -- 1.2 billion meters of cubic gas per year. There will be reduced harmful emissions of about 52,000 tons a year. And it also reduces the loss of electricity in the networks by redistributing electricity. Ladies and gentlemen, the Ukrainian Act of 29 October 2008 already ratified the relevant loan agreement under the project in part of its financing by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. In view of the favourable terms of credit, honourable national deputies, I would like to support this bill. In addition, another positive aspect of this project is that these are jobs for Ukrainian work organizations and businesses, which are very relevant today. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u131	Thank you, Yuri Vasilovich. Have a seat, please. Oleg Grigorovich Belarus, head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u132	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! The draft law on ratification was designed to give effect to the Financial Agreement between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank. According to an explanatory note by the minister who has just reported, the implementation of this law does not require additional budgetary resources because the project is self-sustaining. The main scientific and expert office supports the adoption of the law. The Committee on Finance and Banking has no comments on the bill and recommends that it be adopted by the Supreme Council. The Committee on Fuel Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security recommends a draft law for ratification. The Committee on Budget Affairs, however, believes that the draft legislation has an impact on the revenue, expenditure, financing of the State budget at the level of government debt. However, the corresponding figures are already included in the State Budget for the current year. If the financial agreement is ratified, its standards may become effective in accordance with Article 1204 of this Agreement. The Rules Committee believes that the bill has been submitted with some violation of part two of article 90 and part one of article 91 of the Supreme Council Rules. The bill is carefully considered by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, as the main one on March 11, this year, and recommended for ratification by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u133	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is a need for discussion. If anyone insists on discussing it, please write down so that there are no charges of wrongdoing. Please put the names of the national MPs on the board. Paul Sulkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u134	Thank you. Paul Sulkowski, faction of the Party of the Regions, Ravenshkin. Ladies and gentlemen, you know this is an extremely important issue for the economy of Ukraine. I'm speaking, as the equation is really between the two atomic stations is Plain and Hmelnicka, and unfortunately I'll be grateful and today I'm calling on everyone to support it without any motivation, it's only for the benefit of Ukraine and the economy, I've already said. But unfortunately, I want to take this opportunity to say that the population that lives under the reactors of nuclear stations, unfortunately, there were several projects that were not supported in the Supreme Council for the third time. And I want to call on the people's deputies today so that we can develop separate laws for such zones, and to some extent, as these people live in extreme danger, and we've been taught by the Chernobyl nuclear station, and the example is in life, so I would also like to call for all of us to get together, there's going to be a project that we'll think about, and we'll develop intelligent living conditions for the population that lives near nuclear stations, that is, a 30-km zone, first of all. They pay for electricity today practically like all Ukrainian citizens. Is that fair or not? Clearly, this is unfair. So I urge you, dear friends, to support this bill, and it will be really in favour of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u135	People's deputy of Kilinkarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u136	Thank you. Klinkarov, the Communist faction. Well, I'm sorry I couldn't ask Yuri Vasilevich a question, but I'd like to ask you a lot of questions. If we invest public money today in upgrading networks or building new networks, on which I understand we will export electricity outside our country for four cents and provide domestic enterprises for 10 cents, we will today sell electricity to other countries cheaper than domestic producers do? And I would like to know that we are imposing restrictions today, and that is how we force our people to save electricity when we introduce 400 kilowatts, which are distributed completely unfairly to families that have, say, five family members and have one family member and the same standard for all. If a person makes sausage and restricts consumption, is that right or wrong? If we're running out of gas in the country, of course, we need to impose restrictions. But if the country is producing electricity in excess, why should we take such steps today, and why is electricity for representatives of other States, including industrial enterprises, worth twice as much as domestic enterprises? And I would like to hear a specific figure: what is the cost-effectiveness of the country's financial resources in the context of the crisis? What's the effectiveness? What will be the result? How many years would it take to get that money back to him, or at least tell him what the economic impact of investing that money in the project would be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u137	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u138	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! Dear Mr. Head! I'd like you to be assigned to the secretariat so that we can get a little MP up after the break, if possible, because we're currently considering anti-crisis law. It's actually about involving money in the real economy, and you have it. there is a document of ratification into the law, where there is even a technical description of the work being done in the design, construction and operation of a high-voltage electrical transmission system, which consists of lines of electrical transmissions that are free to stand like metal resistors and so forth. This is in the Kiev AES. And in black and white. And Chernobyl, heading north. I mean, we're completely booked. So over a billion dollars at today's rate are already 150 million euros to be involved in the real economy -- is this not an anti-crisis action? It's me who's always told those who don't take anti-crisis measures. This is just an anti-crisis action, because it allows us to engage a huge number of our employees, and I don't think metal rods -- metal -- will come from anywhere. They will be produced here in Ukraine, in our factories, and the orders will be given to these factories. I also don't think the steel lead will be coming from the other side. Nor do I think that others will act or that someone will design another and a system of real communication protection and will continue to do so to our people. So I'm asking absolutely all the deputies of all factions, given that this is an anti-crisis law, to support it, to vote and to work on further anti-crisis measures that would lead the state out of this systemic crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u139	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. Does no one insist on expressing their position? I am voting on a proposal by the committee to approve the draft Law on the Ratification of the Financial Agreement between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank. Registration number 0118. Please vote. [[12:53:09]] For 207 The decision is not taken. Well, what can I do, "we haven't arrived." The factions? Please. Region Party – 1, Timoshenko Yulia Block – 151, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” – 35, Communist faction – 0, “Litvina Block” – 20. Who wants to go back to the draft Law 0118, go back to the draft Law 0118. [[12:53:53]] For 218. The decision is not taken. A draft Law on the Ratification of the International Labour Organization Convention No. 184 of 2001 on the Safety and Hygiene of Agricultural Work is under consideration. The rapporteur is deputy minister of agricultural policy, Shevchenko Alexander Alexandrovich. The focal point is the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of Belarus, Oleg Grigorovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u140	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! This bill has been drafted by the Ministry of Agriculture Policy of Ukraine in accordance with the Ukrainian Act on the National Programme for the Adaptation of Ukrainian Legislation to European Union Legislation and for the implementation of the relevant decree of the Cabinet of Ministers. The need for ratification of the said convention is due to Ukraine’s desire to become an associate member of the European Union with a further prospect of full membership. An important condition on this road is the strengthening of the economic and political ties between Ukraine and the European Union, which is to bring Ukraine’s existing and future legislation closer to the co-operation legislation laid down in the provisions of the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between Ukraine and the European Community. The proposed draft law aims to adapt national legislation in the field of labour protection relating to agricultural safety and hygiene to European Union legislation through ratification. There are positive trends in our country, if in 99th year 6,560 workers were injured, including 480 with a fatal outcome, there were 1825 in 2008, with 123 fatalities. But this level of industrial trauma is going to be higher than European. Therefore, compliance with the provisions of this convention will certainly help to reduce the level of industrial trauma and occupational disease in the agro-industrial production of our country, improve the social protection of workers in the field. Ratification of the convention will help to raise Ukraine’s political image in the international arena, as countries that consistently adhere to their obligations, as well as the creation of non-vulnerable and safe working conditions. This bill is agreed on by all relevant committees, with all interested parties. I'm sorry for your support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u141	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Oleg Grigorovich, head of the committee, conclusion of the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u142	Dear Head, honourable national deputies, the Committee on Foreign Affairs discussed Ukraine's draft law on ratification of the International Labour Convention No. 184 on safety and hygiene in agriculture and recommended it to be adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Convention aims to introduce international standards in the field of labour protection, such as safety, health care in agriculture, and European Union legislation. Compliance with the provisions of this convention will help reduce the level of industrial trauma and occupational disease in our country’s agricultural production, as well as improve the social protection of workers in the field. The adoption of this law does not require additional financial costs from the State Budget. The Scientific and Expert Office, the Committee on Social Policy and Labour, the Committee on Health Affairs support the ratification of the agreement by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u143	Thank you. Dear colleagues, if you have no objection, please sign in. Please sign up for the performance. Please put the names of the people's deputies on the board. Leonid Kojara.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u144	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear National Deputies! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this is a convention not a European Union, and this is about this convention, not the standards of the European Union, but rather, it's a United Nations convention, and it's designed to create minimum standards in third world countries with undeveloped agricultural infrastructure and so on. And what causes what questions is this convention? First of all, we don't introduce any new standards, because our standards are much higher than those proposed by this convention. But at the same time, we're creating an additional number of inspection bodies that are now suppressing agriculture in many ways. That is why I have such doubts, and I would urge the Supreme Council, perhaps once again, to return and learn more about the consequences of the ratification of this convention for Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u145	Please, Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u146	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, why did I ask for your word? The fact is that the ratification of the International Labour Organization convention is the prerogative of the Committee on Social Policy and Labour. And here's the thing. Today, some nine thousand villages in Ukraine do not have a Feldscher-Ackshering Point, but even an apothecary kiosk. Public health services in the countryside are becoming increasingly inaccessible. Ukraine is covered by a network of paid medical facilities that are impossible to use by our rural population. There is no bus connection that used to work between parks and villages. Now sell went here, and I'd like to ask him how it happened that people in the village would pay so many times more electricity because there's no gas, then have to use electricity to heat it up. People, the sanitary conditions of the people in the village are so terrible that ratifying this ILO convention makes us smile. We have normal standards, we have to implement them, and then we have to ratify them.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u147	Dear colleagues, who else insists? None. Dear colleagues, the committee is proposing to support the draft law on the ratification of the agreement. I just wanted to get the attention of my respectable colleagues. If you make a decision on a committee, disagree, perhaps there is a special point. Or the committee makes one decision, then another proposal comes from the deputy head of the committee. That's not what I'm talking about. I'm talking to the Committee on Foreign Affairs. And your committee's decision is positive, all conclusions are. So that we have a clear and clear picture here. Honorary colleagues, if there are no other proposals, will vote on the proposal by the committee to approve the draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the International Labour Organization Convention, No. 184, 2001 on safety and hygiene in agriculture. Please vote. [[13:02:13]] For 228 Decision taken. Sulkowski, please. I'm not intruding. [[B in m in s a l in]] Just a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u148	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! I am addressing you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, with a request, to some extent the interpretation is in favour, not in favour, so ratification is happening. I think we did have some incomprehensible things here and I very much ask you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, let's go back to the ratification vote for the Plain AES. [[project 0118]]
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u149	Mikhailo Chechetov. Wait a minute, we'll find an understanding. Dear colleagues! Please calm down. If there's any objection, we won't come back.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u150	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! So when do these games between BUTO and our Ukraine stop? Last night, the president gave a sweep, cut down three laws, apologize for the expression, got credited to the IMF. Today, the Presidential Bill, $150 million, the only party that defends the interests of the Party of the Regions, I appeal to Our Ukraine, to BUTU, let's vote, have a conscience! Have a conscience, what are you doing? The Party of the Regions calls upon those who do not vote to do so to stop fighting among themselves. The country is moving. Please put to the vote, vote, we will support, we will demonstrate how we must love Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u151	Adam Martinyuk, please. I don't see a last name.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u152	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. I think, Vladimir Mikhailovich, you are quite right to stress if there are objections, and they are such objections, you will not put to the vote. Since you once took advantage of rule 48 of the Rules, you have put the vote back. There were 218 votes, which means you have absolutely no legal regulatory basis. If you would like to demonstrate a violation of the Rules, please demonstrate. But once again, you have made a clear statement under the Rules, used the right of 48 articles not to gather votes, let them wait for the right time. Let's go and work on it, because everyone can have different challenges.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u153	One minute, one fraction at a time, not all at a time. The digger has long held his hand, the BUT and Carmazin faction, and we'll keep moving.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u154	National Deputy Prokopchuk, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko”, Ravninščina. I would also like to show my constituents, to all citizens, how they take very constructive care of, let's say, the people of Ukraine, and everything else, the Party of Regions. Not even a political law, including a colleague who represents Equality and does not really vote for it, but you put it in a deadlock again. So, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I also ask that a very important bill 0118 be put to the re-vote, which concerns the ratification of the financial agreement and the construction of a high-volt air line between the EES and Kiev. It's like the Party of Regions is ready for this, yes. Then show that you care about people.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u155	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u156	Yuri Carmazin. Party of Protectors of the country “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. Dear friends, I urge you not to drag the rope anywhere, and I call on you, those who are jealous of regulations, I know him no worse than you, and if you want to clean the experiment, I'm making an offer. This law needs to be voted out, it's anti-crisis, it gives jobs, it puts over a billion dollars into the budget. So I propose to vote in favour of putting it into the agenda now and then to vote in favour of ratification, everything, period and then, believe me, everything is going perfectly legally. By law, if the benefits come to people, and if you're sticking to the rules to make them worse, it's not good. So I'm asking you to vote without talking about which factions, I'm not calling anyone, I think all of the patriots of Ukraine are here. And I urge you to be patriots. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u157	Dear colleagues, we've already exchanged, we've come from factions. Let us see if there is a denial on the part of one faction that there will be no charges of breaking the rules, let us move the matter to tomorrow, God will give the day! [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! I want to tell you once again that there is a violation of the Rules, and you yourself are telling us not to violate the Rules. That's not the problem. The Supreme Council has already decided twice, has not made a decision. Please, let's get the faction leaders to agree! I ask you once again that there be no objection, agree on this position, hold consultations and be ready, and in half an hour we will put to the vote. Come on, please! Dear colleagues! I beg of you, fellows of honor! I'm asking you to do some consulting! You'll be ready in half an hour. Let's set it up in 15 minutes. The draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Republic of Slovenia on Exchange and Mutual Protection of Information with Limited Access is being announced for consideration. Registration number 0119. Reporter: Deputy Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Gerasimenko Mikhailovich. Correspondent is the first Deputy Head of the Committee on Euro Integration Affairs, Večko Vladimir Mikolaajovic. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u158	Thank you! Dear Head, the country's distinguished deputies of Ukraine! You have before you the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Republic of Slovenia on the exchange and mutual protection of information with limited access. The specified international agreement has been developed to carry out the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine since 7 June 2007 with the aim of developing bilateral cooperation between Ukraine and Slovenia in the areas of defence, state security and the protection of the rule of law. The deal was signed in Ljubljana on June 4, 2008. In its context, it is fully in line with international practice. In accordance with the provisions of the current legislation, a treaty to enter into force is subject to ratification by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The draft agreement is accepted without notice with all the government authorities concerned, no expenditure from the state budget is needed. In this way, the agreement after it becomes effective will contribute to greater efficiency, mutual cooperation between Ukraine and the Republic of Slovenia. I thank you for your attention and please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u159	Thank you, too, Mikhailovich. Have a seat, please. Correspondent: First Deputy Head of the European Integration Committee Vecerko Vladimir Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u160	Dear Head, honourable national deputies, on behalf of the profile committee, I would like to mention the following with regard to the Ukrainian Supreme Council's proposed draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Republic of Slovenia on Exchange and Mutual Protection of Information with Limited Access. The European Integration Committee, at its meeting on 18 March 2009, reviewed the draft law and decided to recommend it before the adoption of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a basis and as a whole. Positive conclusions on the ratification of the agreement were adopted by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Budgetary Questions. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in line with its conclusion of 11 February 2009, also has no comments on the ratification of the treaty by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and believes that this will be in line with the national interests of Ukraine. The agreement is a framework international treaty that determines the order of transfers of information with limited access and the obligation of the parties to protect such information, the principles governing the admission of restricted access information, and the order of visits establish the appropriateness between the rules of access restrictions. Thus, the ratification of the agreement will enhance efficiency and operationality in the information exchange process with limited access between Ukraine and Slovenia. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u161	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, all conclusions are positive. Do we need to talk? Nobody insists? Adam Martinyuk insists, please, on the microphone, and then we will be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u162	Dear colleagues, we have already passed similar laws to ratify similar agreements. There are a few comments. First. We are not yet members of NATO, but, see, basically, we are ratifying agreements with countries that are part of the NATO bloc, and other countries do not have such agreements with us, and we are already in front of everyone, as it were, trying. This is one moment. One second. I'm surprised, Vladimir Mikhailovich, why does the Committee on European Integration report, the secret information – European integration, or is it the subject of knowledge of the Committee on National Defence and Security? I understand well that this committee has nothing to do with it, we've created a committee that's just a dead birth, so someone's just been lured by the issues of European integration, let the committee do nothing, so what laws do they report, they don't have a relationship, unfortunately, that it can be one of the co-reporters as it is under each of the laws. But it's still a committee, which is the subject of knowing a committee that deals with national security issues. If I were to report to the Nemira here, which Euro Integration knows in the Cabinet of Ministers then Dinner from the Committee could be reported by singing and reported by the Security Service, that means we should be doing a profile, profile committee. I propose not to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u163	Thank you. Please, Taras Blackwall.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u164	Dear colleagues, I'd like to take my place here and say there's some inaccuracies, because we're about half to half doing approvals, ratifications of relevant contracts. Our committee has received from the Security Service a general list of contracts for the transfer and preservation of restricted access documents or secret documents, a complete plan that is envisaged for the ratification of NATO member countries and not NATO members there, in principle, comparatively. Algeria does not belong to NATO member countries, and others do not, and we have ratified them without any problems. In this case, this is a document that does not provide for any integration somewhere, some orientation, because there is a movement of documents that are often either secret, or with limited access by nature, so such documents have to have a status such as transmission, texts, either with Slovenia, or with Germany, or with Algeria, or with Mongolia, virtually identical. How do you mark these documents? Who in one country or another is responsible for receiving the transfer? How should this process take place? It's a procedural document that we have, and it's our committee that has insisted on signing and ratifying with all the countries of the world with which we may have at least some kind of exchange of documents that are of a secret nature. Now it's about the accountability of the committee. Our committee and the Committee on European Integration celebrates this, according to which are the countries, members of the European Union or not members of the European Union as a professional, as the main committee, because we need to ensure that these international agreements do not conflict with others in order to implement the practice of international treaties. But like the Committee on European Integration, since the Committee on Foreign Affairs never takes up such projects until it has a professional committee, in this case national security and defence, a completely 100 per cent reasoned decision. It's international politics, and that's why we're trying.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u165	Dear colleagues, they exchanged their thoughts. I ask that Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk's secretariat note that the National Security and Defence Committee would also receive such a document. Because we have three conclusions from three committees on foreign affairs, on Euro-integration issues, and on budget issues. Obviously, our committee headed by Anatoly Stepanovich Grizzenko needs to be informed. Please, Dinner microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u166	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a small amendment to the speakers. If the Committee on European Integration were also concerned. and monitored our Ukrainian industry, then there would be more funds in Ukraine's budget for our hospitals and other industries. Therefore, who does not know what the Committee on European Integration is doing, we ask you to come to our committee and we will tell you what we are doing and what we will do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u167	Dear colleagues, the committee proposes to approve the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Republic of Slovenia on the exchange and mutual protection of information with limited access. This proposal, namely the approval of the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Republic of Slovenia on the exchange and mutual protection of information with limited access, registration number 0119, is put to the vote. Please vote. [[13:18:07]] For 366 Decision taken. The draft Law on the Adoption of Amendments to the Articles of the International Monetary Fund, 0124 registration number, has been announced for consideration. The rapporteur is Deputy Finance Minister Matviyczuk Vladimir Makarović, co-rapporteur, Secretary of the Committee on Finance and Banking of Poloneyev Yuri Volodymyrovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u168	Honorary Volodymira Mihajlovich, honourable national deputies of Ukraine, the President of Ukraine, was introduced for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law on the adoption of amendments to the articles of the International Monetary Fund Agreement, which is prepared in accordance with the current legislation of Ukraine. The main task of this bill is to take effect in Ukraine by amending the articles of the International Monetary Fund Treaty. In accordance with article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts, the acquisition of amendments to the articles of the International Monetary Fund Treaty requires the adoption of the Ukrainian Law by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In this way, all procedures in Ukraine will be carried out to take effect in Ukraine. In order to take effect the amendments to the articles of the International Monetary Fund Treaty, a bill has been prepared to adopt amendments to the articles of the International Monetary Fund Treaty, which provides for adoption. Amendments to the articles of the International Monetary Fund Agreement on increasing voice and participation in the International Monetary Fund, approved by Council Resolution No. 63-2 of 28 April 2008, and amendments to the articles of the Agreement on the Expansion of Investment Powers of the International Monetary Fund, approved by Council Resolution 63-3. Regarding the amendments to increase voice and IMF participation. The IMF is reforming the size of the fund member countries' quotas and the number of votes in the International Monetary Fund to review the level of representation of member countries in the fund in relation to the change in the position of individual IMF member countries in the world economy. In this context, it is proposed to increase quota size for some member countries of the Fund, 54 countries defined for each country.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u169	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u170	63-2. In addition, it is proposed to amend Chapter 5 of Article 12 of the Agreement, which allows for an increase in the number of basic votes of IMF member countries. For Ukraine, the amendment on increasing voice and participation in IMF does not provide for an increase in quotas. Currently, Ukraine’s IMF quota is 0.63 per cent or 1 billion. 372 million Special borrowing rights. This amendment will reduce Ukraine’s quota to 0.57 percent. With this change in our group, which is very important for Ukraine, members of the IMF, there will be no: The Netherlands will retain first place in the group, and Ukraine will retain second, most important place. Thus, the representative of Ukraine will retain the position of deputy director in the executive board and will have the right to vote. Regarding amendments to the expansion of the IMF's investment authority. This amendment amends articles five and 12 of the International Monetary Fund Agreement to create a new model of income and a new structure of the fund’s expenditure.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u171	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u172	which will ensure an increase in the income of this organization. These changes increase the Fund's ability to use member countries' currency to make investments, which is also very important. The adoption of the bill will ensure that the amendments to the articles of the IMF Agreement become effective in Ukraine and will create conditions for making the above changes to the articles of the IMF Agreement. The Ukrainian Supreme Council's Preparatory Committee for the Supreme Council gave a positive conclusion to the bill. In view of the above, we ask you very much to support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u173	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Who will be speaking from the committee? Ah, Yuri Poluniev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u174	Dear colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Finance and Banking at its meeting on March 18th considered the draft Law on the Adoption of Amendments to the Articles of the International Monetary Fund Agreement, introduced by the President of Ukraine. The bill is intended to become effective, i.e. ratification in Ukraine of the Amendments to the Articles of the Treaty establishing the International Monetary Fund. These amendments have been triggered today by the need to expand the operations of the International Monetary Fund to maintain the stability of the international monetary system. Those measures that are predicted have already been discussed by the previous reporter, and I will not stop at that. These amendments, which are being ratified today by the Supreme Council, do not diminish Ukraine's ability to use the IMF resources needed to stabilize the need for national currency. This amendment also does not provide for an increase in Ukraine’s quota, i.e. the introduction of additional funds into the International Monetary Fund. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council's Apparatus has reached a positive conclusion, the Committee has also reached a positive conclusion and calls on the Supreme Council to support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u175	Yes, thank you, too. Dear colleagues, please sign up for this bill. Please put the names of the people's deputies on the board. National Deputy Arzvetin, faction “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u176	Stanislaw Arzhevtin, MP “For Ukraine!” The bill needs to be supported, it does not make significant changes and our position in the International Monetary Fund. As you've heard, there's a second position behind us after Holland, and behind us is the post of deputy director on the executive board. Mainly, the calculation rate that was still calculated, based on Ukraine’s figures in the Soviet Union, is also unexamined. And that's good. Above all, in our country today, the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank, the Cabinet of Ministers and the National Bank are considering a large-scale programme for the rehabilitation of the financial sector, and the key role here is given to the International Monetary Fund. Therefore, bringing domestic procedures into line in Ukraine is important in this part. I therefore propose to support this bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u177	Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u178	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, before you press the buttons, let us answer the question: Why do we need the International Monetary Fund? In order to continue to tighten the balance on the economy of the state? If this is the case, press the “yes” button. Is it not clear to anyone that they have found a charitable organization that, by storm before Ukraine, “we want to give you money”? Why don't any of you think about it, and why are they trying to give us credit in such a crisis? And that's why they want to give loans to take them away tomorrow, because today, in 2009, Ukraine, as a state -- it's less than half of the blame, more of the corporate debt. Twenty-five billion dollars has to be paid. And here's the International Monetary Fund wants to give us a high-interest loan to take back these funds at the expense of the debt they have, and that's not what the state of Ukraine has, but what corporations have that have different business structures. And the state of Ukraine, our children, and our grandchildren should be counted at high rates. And secondly, Ukrainian patriots, please read what is proposed, because you don't have patriotic feelings, because the quota of Ukraine is changing. Today, Ukraine’s IMF quota is 0.63 percent or 1.3 billion. And once this amendment becomes effective, Ukraine's quota will be reduced to 0.57. Is that how Ukrainian patriots do things? No, it's not. And you're not thinking about patriotism, you're thinking about how future generations could repay their debts. Let's think about whether we need the International Monetary Fund or not. The vast majority of the world have given up on him. And those who have entered into the cabal cannot get out of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u179	Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. The committee proposes that the draft law on the adoption of amendments to the articles of the International Monetary Fund Agreement be approved. I am proposing a vote, namely the approval of the draft Law on the Adoption of Amendments to the Articles of the International Monetary Fund Agreement, registration number 0124. Please vote. This is what we generally do. [[13:28:55]] For 371 Decision taken. The factions, please. Region Party - 142, Timoshenko Yulia Block - 153, "Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense" - 57, Communists - 0, "Block of Lithuania" - 19. A draft Law on the Adoption of Amendments to the Convention on the International Maritime Organization, 1948, is being published for consideration. The rapporteur is Deputy Minister of Transport and Communications, Mr. Vladimir Henadijovich, co-rapporteur of the Transport and Communications Committee, Kruk Yuri Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u180	Good afternoon. Dear Volodymira Mihailovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! For your consideration, there is a draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the 91st and 93rd Years before the Convention on the International Maritime Organization. The bill was drafted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to implement the Ukrainian Presidential Decree of 20 May 2008 on the decision of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine to ensure the development of Ukraine as a maritime state. The purpose of this act is to adopt Ukraine's 91st, 93rd years before the 1948 International Maritime Organization Convention. This convention came into force for Ukraine in 1994 by adopting an appropriate decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The International Maritime Organization has been set up to provide mechanisms for the cooperation of governments in the field of response and action in relation to international commercial shipping, encouraging and promoting the adoption by all countries of high-performing rules on maritime safety, maritime safety, the efficiency of shipping, the prevention of pollution of vessels and the fight against pollution, etc. The adoption of this act will continue the process of finalization at the international level of the Committee's work by simplifying the formalities created by the International Maritime Organization and contributing to the improvement of Ukraine's international image. The 91st amendment to the convention not only refers to the reformation of the convention and the renumbering of articles, but also to the international legal status of the formality committee, which is of key importance for Ukraine today in the process of simplifying formalities, simplifying and bringing to international standards the shipping regime in Ukrainian seaports. Given that these amendments have already been ratified by an absolute majority of the members of the International Maritime Organization, namely, the 91st Amendments ratified 83 countries, the 93rd Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u181	Let me finish. Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u182	and the fact that Ukraine is trying to become a member of the Board of the “C” International Maritime Organization as soon as possible, please support the draft Ukrainian Law “On the Adoption of Amendments 91-93 Years Before the International Maritime Organization Convention”. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u183	Thank you. Yuri Borisovich, please make the decision of the committee on this matter. Deputy Head of the Transport and Communications Committee, Kruk Yuri Borisovich
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u184	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! The bill adopting the 1991 and 1993 amendments to the 1948 Convention of the International Maritime Organization focuses mainly on the need for legal recognition of the activities of one of the main committees of the International Maritime Organization for the Simplification of formalities. [[IMO]] The functions of this committee, as the rapporteur said today, are to address very serious problems of maritime safety across the ocean, on the one hand. On the other hand, all the requirements that are related to the fact that IMO, the International Maritime Organization, is a United Nations parent, the requirements of terrorism, piracy at sea and a number of other issues that are essential to the resolution of, including our maritime community, we must actively, I think, we must become one of those committees. As in 1993, we became members of this International Maritime Organization. The Committee considered the bill at its meeting. We have already ratified more than 30 international conventions related to the safety of navigation by Ukraine. And I would like to support this bill not just as a basis but as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u185	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? Nobody insists? Don't insist. A vote is then put to the vote by the committee on the approval of the draft Amendments Act 1991 and 1993 of the 1948 International Maritime Organization Convention. Registration number 0116. Please vote. [[13:34:59]] For 394 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! We need to put it into the agenda right now and make a decision, and we have two of those bills. So I'm going to put them to the vote now. It's for inclusion in the agenda and decision-making. Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine." [[on promoting the use of alternative energy sources]] Registration number 4267. Please vote. [[13:35:49]] For 382 Decision taken. We're going to consider this bill, then we're going to include the next one in the agenda, too. The rapporteur is Sergey Mihailovich Titenko, the first deputy head of the Committee on Fuel and Energy Complex, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u186	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Your attention is on the proposal of a bill prepared by a group of national deputies, composed of seven men on our committee. I want to remind you that about a year ago we voted here in Parliament on the so-called green tariff, which gave light to the generation of electricity from alternative sources of energy. I want to remind you that the bill has been drafted for about three years, and the country, on the one hand, is grateful that it has been, but time has passed, the new challenges of time require us to improve this bill. I want to say that this bill, which I'm going to try to report to you briefly, takes into account the experience of all the leading countries in the world, from the point of view of the introduction of the relevant laws, takes into account the European Union Directive No. 77 since 2001. What is the content of the bill? First, the green tariff is defined separately for each type of alternative energy source: separately for small hydropower plants, separately for wind power, separately for solar radiation and separately for biomass. The other one. Green tariffs become a fixed tariff that will work for each of these individual types of alternative energy sources. I want to tell you that in our law that is now in force, it exists as the only one for all kinds of alternatives to energy sources, now it has a separate status, it's established once, and it's in the course of the law. Next, it's supposed to be this green tariff.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u187	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u188	It will decrease by 10 percent, 20 percent, and 30 percent every five years respectively. I would also like to add that every year, the Central Authority of Executives, which will be authorized by the Cabinet of Ministers, will report on the progress of the implementation of this bill, and all engineering infrastructures will be distributed without auction and at a certain price. I want to add that this will give us an opportunity to save the natural fossils that are used as fuel at the power plants, and the same gas that will help us reduce environmental pollution, create a lot of new jobs. The bill is considered on the committee and fully supported. The Scientific Advisory Group of the Supreme Council also concluded positive. Please support the decision and accept this bill as a basis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u189	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the performance. I would like to remind you that this is a bill that is sponsored by all five factions. Well, if we don't want to speak, will we accept this law? Please have the name of the national MPs on the sign-up table. Oleg Zarubinski, then Mikhailo Chechetov and Karmazin. Shall we continue to work for 14 hours 15 minutes, if you don't mind? Well, the committee's at 15 o'clock.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u190	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Oleg Zarubinsky's Block of Lithuania. Dear colleagues! You know, not by chance in this bill are the coauthors of all five factions. Because the question in the bill is absolutely not an ideological one, not a political one. This is a question that everyone knows, which everyone is talking about, but which, unlike the rest of the world, first of all European, we have absolutely no realisation. This is not just about alternative sources, but I would like to highlight the word "renewable" energy sources. We're talking about reducing the use of gas, of petroleum products and so on. But on what account? If we want the economy to develop, if we want industry to develop, it has to be compensated. Unfortunately, it wasn't said, and I'm going to say that today, in the entire energy balance in Ukraine, 0.8 percent of one percent -- that's what renewable energy is giving you, think about it. In Norway, which ranks fourth in the world in gas production, it's four and a half million people, fourth in the world. 20 percent for today's renewable energy sources. In Germany, 19-21 percent. We have 0.8 percent, and that's because there's a wind, and there's a sun, and there's a lot of little rivers where little hydropower plants can work. That's why the drafters tried to differentiate and detail the so-called "green tariff" that we talked about in September and did the right thing by adopting that law. This law develops and, on the basis of some practice, enables and encourages people to engage in renewable energy. I ask you to vote for him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u191	Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Get ready for Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u192	Honourable Volodymira Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, the bill's task is to stimulate production and introduce energy-efficient technologies and use alternative sources of energy, to increase the competitiveness of the domestic producer by reducing energy efficiency, and to improve the payment balance of Ukraine by reducing the consumption of imported energy resources. This project is designed to amend two legislative acts, Ukraine's Land Code and Ukraine's Electricity Act. The proposed amendments provide for the addition of the Earth Code to two standards that define the land assessment mechanism that is sold to buyers for the construction and maintenance of transport and energy infrastructure facilities, and specify the list of transport and energy infrastructure objects by including alternative energy objects in it. The proposed amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Electricity relate to the questions of clarifying the principles of State policy and state electricity administration regarding the distribution of electricity to all types of alternative energy, the application of the green tariff and the reporting terms of the central executive authority authorized by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the state of alternative energy, specifies the main powers of the National Electricity Regulatory Commission of Ukraine, the changes in the conditions for the operation of the electricity market of Ukraine, and regulates the formation of a green tariff to stimulate the production of electricity from alternative sources of energy. The transition to alternative technologies in energy will allow for the conservation of Ukraine's fuel resources. The faction of the Party of the Regions proposes to vote on this law both in the first reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u193	Yuri Carmazin, please, the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u194	Yuri Carmazin. By upholding this anti-crisis law, I hereby give the floor to one of the authors of the law, the leader of the faction "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" Mikoli Volodymirovich Martinenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u195	Mikola Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u196	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, first thing I'd like to pay attention to. Thanks to our composition of the Supreme Council, we have launched a legislative initiative on alternative energy, which is the continuation of the same actions. First. It's creating, in fact, a new field of production. The second question. I want to remind everyone of the European Union directive, formula 20-20-20. What it means. By 2020, reduce emissions to the atmosphere by 20 percent. Reduce energy consumption by 20 percent and 20 percent of energy should be produced by alternative sources. So it's this bill that's focused on these problems. The second question. I'm very pleased that the authors are representatives of all factions without exception and because once again I say that we can call it the anti-crisis law, the creation of a new industry, new jobs, so I would like us to vote in favour of this law. Not only on the basis, but perhaps on the whole, especially on the faction today, we have considered and allowed this option. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u197	Honorable colleagues, the discussion is concluded, and do not the representatives of the undeclared factions insist on speaking?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u198	The proposal sounded, accepted, and generally accepted. No, let's put it on the ground first, and then we'll figure it out. Dear colleagues, the first proposal for adoption is based on the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on Promoting the Use of Alternative Energy Sources, registration number 4267. Please vote. [[13:46:44]] For 418 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Now the second proposal is to accept the project in the second, generally as a law. Is there no objection? You don't? Well, there's a denial, I can't, dear colleagues. Please align your positions. Please, Baby.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u199	Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, before this bill is a major observation by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. And for those who wish to vote in general, please pay attention to these remarks. Some rules regarding the earth’s ransom are not clearly defined there. And that can lead to the opposite effect, as stated by the authors of the law. So if you want to introduce, as Mikola Volodymyrovich Martinenko said, a new branch, give it, as they say, life, let's vote for a reduced procedure. Let the second reading remove these remarks and then vote tomorrow or the next day as a whole. But a jury of fevers, especially when it comes to the earth's ransom and everything else, are serious questions. And you can't do that in front of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u200	Dear colleagues, unfortunately, because there are objections, I cannot put him to the vote. Maybe let's take it. What, what? So no, now, please, from the committee, if they agree to take into account the observations of scientific expertise and put to the vote in general, let's put and there will be no objections. Please, Mikola Volodymyrovich. Who. Please, Sergei Mikhailovich Titenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u201	A little comment. Scientific conclusions. Mr. Lazko, the scientific and scientific conclusion states that it would be appropriate to specify. The question is that the minister is sitting, he knows, no pipeline, no pipeline, no power lines, no land can be found right now, no land under them. Because it's an auction to buy. Count that Naftogaz is arguing with someone on the route to build a gas pipeline. And the point is that without auction, but at fair price, this land will be purchased either by ownership or leased. And there's no such thing as this conclusion that it's pointless or something else. Please read carefully. It says: “It is appropriate to specify the basic parameters and criteria.” That's what the Cabinet of Ministers is for.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u202	Thank you. Dear colleagues, do you take your warnings off? Please. Let's take this seriously. Let's take a first step on this. There's a denial, more specifically, in the form of wish -- unproposed proposals. Please, Oleg Lakota, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u203	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, honourable colleagues, if you turn to Mr Titarenko's argument, I would like to remind you that there is a government law on the removal of land for social purposes. This law will also deal with the issues involved. I would like to draw your attention once again to the comments made by the expert management. It's not about general comments, it's about how we define the estimate that we're talking about. The prices that this land will buy out. Do you understand? That's why I'm making a normal offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u204	We're going to delete these two points that apply to the earth.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u205	I think so.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u206	Turn off the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u207	Thank you. I'm not really happy that I'm in the middle of developing a new sector of economics, but I am.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u208	No, it's about all the energy.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u209	One minute, let the Lady express her point of view. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u210	I propose to remove from this law the land rules concerning land removal, and let everything else go, to be regulated in the Earth Code. Under such conditions we can be accepted as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u211	The committee supports such a proposal? Dear colleagues, in view of the proposal made by the National MP, Oleg Lazko, can we put to the vote the whole draft law? No objections? There's no objection. I then put to the vote on the second reading as a whole, as a law, the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine, registration number 426.7 taking into account the proposals made by the national deputy, Oleg Láška, please vote. [[on promoting the use of alternative energy sources]] [[13:52:18]] For 415 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, as we agreed, now we need to put one more question into the agenda. One more minute, I mean. [[May I have your attention, please?]] Dear colleagues, how do they propose? To put the agenda into order and make a decision, your decision has to be, the 90-year decree on the creation of the Komsomol of Ukraine, and then the remark is withdrawn, and we will vote, we will ratify the document. If the Supreme Council agrees to such proposals. We have these questions on the agenda of our meetings. Well, one minute, I'm telling you, the more logical we have to look at it. Dear colleagues, what's more, there's a question on the agenda for today. But if we agreed to this position, then let me put it to a vote, please support us now to look at this sequence: we have included in the agenda and we have decided on the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the 90th anniversary of the creation of the Komsomol of Ukraine and we have returned to the consideration of the draft Law on the Ratification of the Financial Agreement -- the 750 kilowatt high-voltage air line project, the Ravenska AES, the Kiev between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank. [[Registration number 4140]] [[Registration number 0118]] Please vote for the decision of the Supreme Council. Please vote. [[13:54:17]] For 293 We made that decision. And now I'm voting for the inclusion in the agenda and adoption of the draft decree marking the 90th anniversary of the creation of the Komsomol of Ukraine, please vote. [[Registration number 4140]] [[13:54:48]] For 258. The factions, please. Region Party – 146, Block Timoshenko – 60, Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense – 5, Communists – 27, Block Lithuania – 20. Dear colleagues, there is another suggestion. So that we don't politicize this issue, the draft decision is, let's vote, it's our story, and then let everyone decide for themselves, because now there's going to be reports, speeches, mutual accusations. Is there no objection? [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, we'll report now, we'll vote. What are you, respectable colleagues?Oh, my God! Please. I'll bet. May I have your attention, please? I will put to the vote the adoption of this draft regulation 4140 without discussion. Please vote. So there's no charge. [[13:55:54]] For 266 The Supreme Council made a decision. Now I'm voting on the adoption of the draft decree marking the 90th anniversary of the creation of the Komsomol of Ukraine as decrees. Please vote. [[13:56:23]] For 251 Decision taken. Next. Dear colleagues! The factions, please. Region Party 150, Timoshenko Yulia Block - 53, Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense - 1, Communists - 27, Litvina Block - 20. Now I remind you that we have decided with you that we are going back to the draft law on the ratification of the Financial Agreement between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank. Registration number 0118. I'm voting for a return to the draft law. Please vote. [[13:57:21]] For 379 Decision taken. I am voting on the approval of the draft Law on the Ratification of the Financial Agreement between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank. Please vote. [[13:57:53]] For 374 The law's approved. The draft Law on the Concept of State Migration Policy has been announced for consideration. The rapporteur is Justice Minister Onichuk Mikola Vasilovich. Correspondent is the head of the Subcommittee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations, Yuri Vasilovich Gnatkovic. Please, Mikola Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u212	Thank you. Honorable Head of the Supreme Council, distinguished national deputies! We have a large country, but so far we have no legally defined priorities and directions for state migration policy. This is the task and the government's dedicated bill: on the concept of State migration policy -- which, among other things, is to define the orientations and priorities of state migration policy and determine how to solve existing problems in the field of migration. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the topic is really very important because it is labour migration, including the protection of the rights and interests of Ukrainian citizens working abroad. The need to set quotas for the entry into Ukraine of migrant workers, such as the use of additional measures involving refugees and citizens seeking refuge, illegal migration, xenophobia and racism, and the promotion of the return to Ukraine of Ukrainians working or staying there, and the use of appropriate measures. In our view, in terms of the government's adoption of this law, just as a concept of state policy, it will contribute to a clearer definition of the government's tasks, as well as to the proper construction of the hierarchy of legislative acts and acts of law, which will ensure the entire migration policy of our country. Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u213	Thank you. Mikola Vasilovich. Dear colleagues, since we have two bills: 3506 and 3158, which are also essentially about the concept, no matter what you deny, we would also hear the author of the draft Law 3158 – Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin. Then we would ask Yuri Vasilovich Gnatkiewicz to make a statement on two bills, and then we would make a decision. No objections? Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u214	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, honourable colleagues, these bills are not alternatives, they only complement each other, first. So I'd like to take that into account. The draft law on the principles of State migration policy, which is being passed by me and the national deputy Sharov, was drafted on the basis of a decision by the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine in 2007, which was called on the direction of Ukraine's national immigration policy. True, nothing has changed in the country since then. That is, there is no major legislative act that reflects the principles of public policy on this issue and, obviously, that is why there is no policy. The situation in Ukraine today in the migration field is critical. Specialities such that, according to the State Border Service in 2007, the state border crossed 51.2 million foreigners in both directions, including 26.16, and 25.4 million. The difference is 1 million and 12,000. I repeat: one million and twelve thousand people are foreigners who have not left the country within the time limits established by the current legislation. Some of them have continued to stay in internal affairs or have changed legal status, obtained immigration permits, permanent residences, and so forth. However, according to the Ukrainian Ministry of Foreign Affairs in 2007, 733 thousands of foreigners are staying in Ukraine without legal grounds. Of these, 52.3 thousand illegal migrants have been held responsible, and they have been expelled from Ukraine in 2008. According to the state - border administration, more than 123 thousand foreigners did not leave from 2002 to 2006. That's why we're now proposing to settle these issues by this law and.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u215	Yes, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u216	Now, quick. Here we go. The law provides for both the definition of terms, and what is the objective of State migration policy, the legal basis of State migration policy, sets out the principles of State migration policy and regulation of migration processes, as well as general priorities for creating a favourable situation in Ukraine for the sustainable socio-economic and cultural and educational development of the state. It is also a priority to ensure the protection of the rights of Ukrainian citizens themselves. This law is directed. It also foresees all the tasks of the public authorities to implement the principles of State migration policy. And I think that by adopting these two laws, we're going to fill them with further meaning and we're going to do everything we can to establish responsibility for illegal migration, and restrictions, and to do normal international cooperation in the field of migration. I'm sorry, it's been a while. The Law has its 14 articles and its final position. Please accept it in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u217	Thank you. Please, Yuri Vasilovich, position of committee on these bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u218	Dear colleagues, the migration problem is extremely complex, it is relevant and, I would stress, complex and multifaceted. It's both immigration and immigration and labour migration, it's illegal migration, it's also human rights and much more. As you know, we don't have the only organ in the country that does migration. Nope. The Ministry of Internal Affairs, Foreign Affairs, Foreign Service, BSS, Minpraci, State-of-the-art migration, and others are involved in this practice. Another thing that we have just come up with on the committee is, I think, about a dozen bills on this subject. And I'm sad to remind us that in view of the fact that there was no such complex orientation, we recently, let's put it straight, we've shut down the Grigory Smituch project because it's a little bit of a fixer-upper out there. And this is exactly the main objective of this bill, the first one, is to ensure that the activities of public authorities are consistent according to this concept, which provides for a systematic and consistent implementation of State migration policy based on the sole principles of strategic objectives and the objectives of standards and the promotion of human rights and freedoms. I'll remind you that these concepts already exist in the SND countries. This is also in Moldova, Russia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan. We have yet to have a single document common to all of us that gives clear and clear guidance yet. The norms of the concept of State migration policy that we now have to establish, of course, are not laws of direct action, to some extent they are also declarative. The rules of direct action will be contained in other laws that have come or will come, especially in this law, as reported by George Carmazin. What I'm saying right now is that of course, the Chief Science Administration always has some kind of comment. And the main point they made was that there is a kind of multilingualism and declarativeness. But the merit of this bill is that it covers all the cases and standards of position and situations that relate to this complex multifaceted migration practice. And that's why we think we need to start with something to get people to know something. And these state institutions that care about this problem, so that they can rely on some common concept. And so we recommend that this law be approved in the first reading. I mean the Concept Law. Now with regard to the law reported by Yuri Anatoliyovich as coauthor with Sharov. I'll also start by saying that the position of the Chief Executive has been widely debated, by the way, by Vladimir Mikhailovich, just as we've been looking at him today on our committee at one time, at the same time, at the same time, at the same time, at another law. What does it point to? It points out that there are some things in these bills that coincide, that this may violate the principle of systemivity and the consolidation of legislation. But after the debate, we came to the only agreement that these bills here have two different things, two different orientations. If the first points to issues and basic orientations on how to deal with it and how to use it, then the second law referred to by Yuri Anatoliyovich recommends mechanisms, such as mechanisms of limitation, responsibility, financial and information security, international cooperation. It gives us a framework and orientation. So that's two different things.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u219	Please finish, you're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u220	and complement each other, which is essential to this day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u221	Thank you. Dear colleagues! If your will were, if there were no objections, we don't know how the events would continue, we've adopted these bills, which we have as a basis, and today we've successfully completed our work. Do we need to discuss Bills 3506 and 3158? Nobody insists? No, it's not. Then I'll put it to the vote in turn. Please, Bondarenko microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u222	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear friends! I deliberately asked for the short talk. You have a question that we have on the table, and this is me, Mr. Taras Cranowil and Mr. Volodymyr Stretovic, about the bill on non-State migration services. We've gone through four committees based on this issue today, and it complements, including, the problems that are being violated in this concept. So I'd like to ask you, after all, to bring this bill ready for consideration to the room, which is absolutely necessary, because today hundreds of different agencies are recruiting Ukrainians, they're going abroad without any guarantees, respecting their labour rights, their any other rights, and they're continuing to operate. Regrettably, today the Ministry of Internal Affairs is laying the groundwork for criminal cases involving the recruitment of people, exportation abroad, rather than focusing on the prevention of this type of crime. Unfortunately, the concept does not fully reflect this side of the problem. So I would like to point out that here, too, there are problems in this concept between the coordination of the activities of the consulates, of the foreign service, of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, which operate within their respective competences, and there is no joint programme. And that's why today we can take this concept as a basis, but with the necessary work done, I have practically in most positions written problems that I would like to bring to my second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u223	Taras Chernobyl, please. We only use language as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u224	Dear colleagues, I will urge you to vote in the first reading, but only in the first reading. There are a number of flies that need to be corrected and a series is incomplete, particularly from the point of view of international law. And I'm urging everyone, after all, in the first reading to vote in favour of both documents. I would like to say the great "fe" especially to the authors of the parliamentary project who refused to come to the Committee's meetings on foreign matters, where we were ready to consider this issue and we put it through a postponement, and so we were unable to advise them on a number of really important, important norms that could only improve the law. In this regard, when preparing for the second reading, these things can be corrected, they are not cardinal, those who regret the law, and I therefore call on them to accept it in the first reading. With regard to the flies that are there, there are insufficiently defined issues of immigration and immigration and the problems that arise. There's not enough clear answer to what system the central executive body should be operating in the field of migration policy. Similarly, there is no reference to standards that relate to international legal issues. So once again, by calling for a vote in the first sentence, until the second reading, give everyone a normal opportunity to work on it. And I'm joining Vladimir Bondarenko's appeal, in parallel with these laws, we need to adopt definitively about non-state migration services, because in this market we have an incredible creation.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u225	Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u226	Oleg Zarubinsky's Block of Lithuania. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! All those who spoke were right in fact. Clearly, there are many unresolved issues that relate to specific standards of migration policy, both migration policy and immigration policy. But I would like to take it into account that the committee's decision was precisely meant to take as a basis and a bill that defines the concept of this important problem and the parliamentary bill, which is not an alternative, more than what is in the development of this concept: the administrative mechanisms, the financing mechanisms, the mechanisms and the mechanisms and the details of what is in the concept. So it'll be perfectly logical, it'll be absolutely right if we take the first reading as a basis and a question that relates to the concept. On the other hand, we also have a solid basis, a right, and it will be correct in the first reading, or on the basis, to adopt the bill that was reported by Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin and the authors of which are Karmazin and Igor Sharov. Then what would we do? We would make a basis for consideration and what Vladimir Bondarenko said and what Taras Crnowil said and what is now placed in the order of the day under 3079, and it goes without saying after two bills on the legal status of foreigners and non-citizens. And another moment that I'd like, dear colleagues, to pay your attention to. When we talk about the fact that the Scientific and Experimental Authority, unfortunately, determines that some of the rules in the bill of government and the MP are being crossed, it's not entirely or completely inconvenient to reality. This is a very important moment and I would like my colleagues to understand. What is the c. Basic principles of state.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u227	Come on, let's finish. Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u228	Thank you. I'm on the subject, you see, absolutely. The basic principles of Ukraine’s national migration policy, Karmazin and Sharov. Specific, specific legal rules are being applied that allow the necessary legislative measures to be implemented, which will further form an integrated administrative environment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-01-m0.u229	Thank you. We can't make a decision, it's 14:15, we have to make a decision. Dear colleagues, the discussion of Bills 3556 and 3158 is concluded. The committee's offering to take them as a basis, so I'll put them in order, I'll look at them. The first is to vote for adoption on the basis of the draft Law on the Concept of State Migration Policy, registration No. 3506 government. Please vote on the basis. [[14:16:10]] For 205 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 2, "Timoshenko Yulia Block" – 138, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" – 46, communists – 0, "Litvina Block" – 19. I now put to the vote draft Act No. 3158 on the basic principles of Ukrainian State migration policy. This is the authorial bill by Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin and Sharov to be accepted as a basis, please vote. [[14:16:57]] For 186 The decision is not taken. I'm voting for re-reading the draft Law 3506, please vote for the first time again. Please vote. It's a government bill. [[14:17:23]] For 224 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. I'm voting for the return to ugly first reading, the reading of the bill registration number 3158, the authors of the Ukrainian national deputy Karmazin and Sharov. To read again. Please vote. [[14:17:56]] For 207 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. At 3 p.m., the committee meeting is about to begin with a meeting of the Conciliation Council, with the participation of faction leaders. Tomorrow we'll continue our plenary work at 10 a.m. on schedule for Thursday.
