ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Cards please place all of them. Turn on the "Council" system. [[10:00:50]] There were 434 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, allow me to welcome all of you back to the New Year's celebrations, with the day of Basil and especially our colleague, the national deputy Potapova Vasil Ivanovich, as well as the skin of Leonid Alexanderovich, on whose birthday. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to provide you with information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary meetings on 13 January 2009. There were 17 questions on the agenda, 13 of them bills and seven draft regulations. As a result of the review, one law and four decrees were passed, eight bills were adopted on the basis of three bills and three draft regulations were rejected. In accordance with article 25 of the Rules, 30 minutes are allocated on Wednesday for statements by national deputies with proposals, announcements, and messages. People's deputies please sign up for the speech. Please show me the name of the national MPs on the board. National MP Lukyanov, faction "Our Ukraine", national deputy Lukyanov. The faction "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" gives Stretovich, right? Please. Volodymyr Stretovic from the rostrums, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u2	Vladimir Stretović, Party of the Christian-Democratic Union, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear fellow countrymen, allow me to welcome you to the old New Year's, to wish you all sorts of good times and to make a statement by the Party to the Christian-Democratic Union on the economic crisis. Our party, as a party based on Christian values, agrees that the causes of today’s financial economic crisis are not only in the economic sphere but are related to moral degradation and consumerism. The pursuit of wealth has a negative effect on the spiritual state of the person and leads to degradation both in human and in society as a whole. An activity aimed at serving its selfish interests would eventually lead to cataclysm. In view of this, we believe that in order to come out of a situation that has resulted in the need for a consistent implementation of the principle of solidarity as one of the foundations of social life. The principle of solidarity proclaims the unity and mutual responsibility of all members of society. Solidarity is based on love for one’s fellowman, compassion, awareness of the mutual dependence of members of society. This principle is complemented by the principle of social partnership, which provides for cooperation between different social groups and sects. Social stability depends on respect for one another among different social groups, achieving a reasonable, fair balance between their interests, rather than the selfishness of any social group, and exacerbating their conflicts lead to social disasters and a historic catastrophe. Thus, the State is now responsible for ensuring the rights of workers to work and for paying a decent wage, protecting them from unemployment. This can be achieved through appropriate economic policies aimed at providing new jobs by providing adequate pay to the unemployed, by retraining them, by putting in place a system of public works, and so on. It seems necessary to review the tax burden of "Our Ukraine" on the people of work that deprives them of much of what they've earned. A person has the right to ensure that his property is intact. God’s commandments forbid the deprivation of man’s life. So by recognizing the legal right of banks to borrow from debtors to pay off their debt, we urge the representatives of this area to show solidarity and to refrain from being forced into the debtors of their apartments, leaving them simply in the sky, prescribing to. And poverty. We urge the State to take care of those who have taken credit, to this day have no way of restoring them, and may run out of what is most necessary for a normal life. The financial and economic crisis is gradually turning into a psychological crisis that has unexpected problems. Therefore, we turn to the media, who, because of their significant social influence, should be aware of their responsibility to society. We are determined to oppose the demonstration of material that promotes even greater social depression, the suppression of negative emotions. Today is a time of economic crisis, a real test for many people, families, and whole sections of our society. At the same time, on these Christmas days, we urge everyone not to despair, to have faith and hope in the Most High, who sent his world. The son, in turn, showed indifference to the problems of society. With God’s help, by not giving up in doing so.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u3	Give me a chance to finish. It's all right, isn't Alexy Kostusev, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u4	Dear compatriots, respectable Vladimir Mihajlovich, respected colleagues! Yesterday, from this rostrum, the leader of the Party of the Regions, Viktor Janukovic, said that we are demanding the resignation of the free Government of Timoshenko, which led the people of Ukraine to poverty, which put the country at the brink of total collapse. I have been slowed down by the reaction to this statement by some deputies, members of the faction of the so-called “national development, stability and order coalition”, which in fact did not exist and never existed. They said, "Absolutely, the Government of Timoshenko? For what?” Apparently, it is not enough for them that millions of people today are struggling to survive because of this Government. It is not enough for them to see the destruction that this executive power has unleashed on them that the unprofessional, adventurous actions of this executive power have led to the collapse of the national currency, which has hurt virtually every citizen of Ukraine. Any of the above would be enough for the Government to resign in a democratic country with small-scale democratic traditions, but not in Ukraine. These people continue to mock the country and to disrupt negotiations with Russia on gas issues. As a result, the 2009 visit to Ukraine was not a gift, not a social programme, but a stop to a number of enterprises, including a large Odessa Airport plant, an ammonia plant, a Styrol concert, the Northdonese Association of Azot. There are several hundred thousand people working in these enterprises and related enterprises alone, and these people are now out of jobs and livelihoods. Here are some gifts that the Ukrainians received from the Government of Timoshenko. Regrettably, the darkest predictions are being made today that 1 out of 4 Ukrainians will be out of work in the spring. And executive power is not going to help these people. They're abandoned in the wild. Negative, I would say, the tragic development of the socio-economic situation in the country is growing like a snow coma. Metalworking, chemical enterprises are known to give a lion's share of foreign exchange income to the country. Now that lunch is over, it will lead to further collapse of the bracelet. The result will be an even greater impoverishment of the population of Ukraine. The current Government is taking the country to ruin. We must stop his cruel, inhuman experiments on human beings, and we must put him to rest until it destroys all the people of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u5	Valentin Grigorovich Matviev, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Please, Mikola Kravchenko of the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u6	Cowchenko, the Communist faction. Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Respectable voters! I would like to draw the following conclusion about yesterday's discussion here. From yesterday's discussion, the situation that continued after the discussion showed that Ukraine had not drawn any conclusions for itself in its relationship with Russia on gas. To date, and yesterday, this has been confirmed, to date, Ukraine has become firmly committed to foreign policy and is trying to impose this policy at any cost. Yesterday, also from the Government, which in the report, Solda, openly lied to all the people of Ukraine, and from the people's deputies on the orange side came, they sounded before they agreed that Russia would come to us with gas, that Russia was somewhere else's gas, and it would be forced to pay Ukraine for nothing. This is such an absurd statement that strengthened the President in his right. And yesterday afternoon, like Alan Chumak, he manipulated those hands, "who didn't steal anything," and he told us that Ukraine would stand firm on 210. If we don't figure out the next gas is in Russia, and we're acting as a buyer, if we don't understand that Russia is a monopoly today, if we don't understand that we have gas in the pipes and it's not there, it's just that there's no gas in the dumps, then we're the one who thinks it is -- go to the Donetsk area: pressure in the 0.7 highway area, and at 0.4 you know that the automatics work and cut the system all. So we can defrost the whole system. Next. Go to Donetsk region and see what. which led to a confrontation with Russia following the example of the city of Kirovska, which is frozen. And I brought a letter from all the residents to Vladimir Mikhailovich because they don't trust anyone anymore. I therefore propose the following. Vladimir Mihajlovich, if you do not unite the President, the Government and you will not say what to remove from the negotiating process of nationalists. If their common sense doesn't work, we're doomed. We've had enough of this gas for two weeks, if we can call it life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u7	Sidelnik People's Deputies, Timoshenko Street. Allows Victor Terrence the right to speak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u8	I would like to start by saying that the person who just appeared before this Party of Regions criticizing the Government of Timoshenko is the one who held the post of head of the Antimonopoly Committee and was at the same time a national deputy of Ukraine, violating the law and that it had privatized seventy-five percent of the lies, was privatized by Firtash and this is the golden constellation of the Party of Regions: Boyko, Ljowczyn and Firtash created “Rosukreenergo” and are today’s hosts, and it is because of them that Ukraine owes Russia gas. And I want to say that over the last time that Russian television is fighting a powerful information war against Ukraine and all those who are shining on screens and commentators, and the State Departments, and both Russian presidents are defending Russia in one voice, and it's logical that they're Russians, that we have a lot of Ukrainian deputies like here today, the TV commentators, protecting not Ukraine, but protecting Russia too, and it's not logical, it's wild. And that's because Ukraine is being torn apart by party ambitions, because Ukrainian television politics are being defined not by Ukrainians, but by the internationalists like Firtash, that's already, if you're telling the truth. But what is the purpose of Russia’s gas attack? The goal, as in war, is to occupy the Ukrainian gas transport system and, at the same time, to capitulate Ukraine as an independent state. And objectively, just because Julia Timoshenko predicted Russia’s gas blackmail and just because the government had stockpiled seventeen billion cubic gases in the vaults, that is all that saved Ukraine today, and that is indeed the case. And the second. We're only negotiating equally with Russia because the government has fully accounted for its debts to Russia. Once again, the government of Yanukovic owed Russia more than $8.3 billion for gas. Next. I have already mentioned that today most of the Ukrainian frauds belong to the “Rosukreenergo” which has been actively penetrated through the President's Secretariat to privatise the frauds. And "Rosukrenerego" and today, I'm talking about it again, is taking money from people, but it's not giving it to Naphogas under various reasons. And the last. If a dollar still costs nine dollars, that's a collapse of the Ukrainian industry, that's a huge inflation. And therefore, objectively, the National Bank of Ukraine is today the most opaque and corrupt structure. And questions. How long will the President of Ukraine “break” the National Bank, and why does he do so? And when the President finally responds to the Parliament's will, which is over 300 votes in favour of Mr. Stelmach's mistrust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u9	The word has the national deputy of Paris, who is entitled to a speech transmitted by a colleague of Humenjuk. Prepare Kseniya Lupini.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u10	Paubai Andry, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" faction, the MP’s “For Ukraine!” Deputies! Dear Ukrainians! In these last weeks, we've understood that everyone in Ukraine and everyone in Europe, that the gas conflict is not a contradiction between certain host structures, we've seen that this is Russia's next attack on Ukraine, on Ukrainian sovereignty. This is not the first and not the last attack, for a long time there is a constant and a system of attack by Russia against Ukraine. Russian leadership has never been able to understand and perceive that Ukraine is an independent and sovereign state. Such challenges come to every state, and each state provides an adequate response to these challenges. Civilized nations have the ability to unite all their forces in order to share their opposition. In this situation, there is no political party but one “Ukraine” party and all must be subordinated to the values and interests of this party, the “Ukraine” party. Unfortunately, yesterday's meeting of the Supreme Council demonstrated a negative fact, it demonstrated that, unfortunately, there is only one policy left in Ukraine that is capable of giving adequate and severe opposition to the attacks against Ukraine and that is President Viktor Yushchenko of Ukraine. Regrettably, yesterday, Ukraine’s higher legislative body failed to demonstrate the unity and ability to jointly oppose and defend Ukraine’s national interests. Yesterday, a proposal was made to vote in favour of the draft decision on the situation of natural gas supply in Ukraine by the head of the “For Ukraine” MP group, Viacheslav Kirilenko. [[No. 3590]] The draft regulation envisaged support by Parliament for the joint position of the President and the Cabinet of Ministers on the gas issue. Taking responsibility for the disruption of gas supplies to Ukraine and its transit to other countries of Europe on the Russian side. Any negotiations or other actions aimed at privatization, rent or transfer in any other way to foreign states or entities operating the Ukrainian gas transport system or its elements were deemed unacceptable. The project also contained a series of government tasks aimed at reducing unsustainable energy consumption, diversifying sources, supply and expansion of alternative energy sources instead of gas. Sadly, however, there were no 226 votes found in Ukraine’s highest legislative body to support this stately consistent position. Five votes were not enough and only the faction “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense” and “The Block of Yulia Timoshenko” gave their votes. I would like to stress that no vote has been given by the ‘Litwina Block’. It's a question. Which is worth our coalition if it's not capable.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u11	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u12	What is worth our coalition and our parliament when it is necessary to protect Ukraine's national interests together. The parliamentary group “For Ukraine” calls on all parliamentarians in Ukraine to forget party ownership and to think about Ukraine’s interests, the interests of Ukrainians, the interests of our electorate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u13	Kseniya Lapina faction "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u14	Ksenija Ljapina, “For Ukraine”, is a faction of “Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense”. Dear colleagues, not the only one living in Ukraine. At the beginning of the year, there was another huge problem in Ukraine that entrepreneurs viewed as just a war against small businesses. This problem consists of three components. The first ingredient. We've created the first problem with you. After a brief procedure, yes, you know, quickly, you and I adopted the Local Taxes and Congregations Act at the end of 2008. As always, we didn't. This law proposes, the government proposes, the introduction of a so-called market tax, which, at least, increases today's payments seven times, up to 70 times. Where in the world is that? Each country thinks how two or three percent raise two or three years discuss. We raise 700 percent just like that, just because the government wants it. The markets are ready to close. And that means cheap goods for the poor will just disappear. We destroy the trade where the poor sell to the poor. And this is the only haven today for those who are being thrown out of large companies that are closing down. You can't do that. Another problem. With the same private entrepreneurs, the government has somehow decided that it is itself the Constitutional Court and the highest body in Ukraine in general. You and I haven't changed a single letter to regulate a single tax. However, the government in secret since the beginning of the year, only after December 7, did it become known, changed its view of the sole tax and said that entrepreneurs, single taxpayers, had no right to be VAT payers. The government doesn't need money from private entrepreneurs. They paid for it, they paid for it. What did this lead to? First of all, it's an illegal, anti-constitutional decision. Secondly, we've put private entrepreneurs on condition: or you're giving your testimony to a VAT payer, and we're not seeing a single tax payer's testimony, and tomorrow we're going to come to you and arrest all your goods, and we're going to take all your proceeds. And the third problem is absolutely fantastic. The government has decided, among other things, to amend the ruling that was stopped by the President's decree and is now under review at the Constitutional Court, and has launched an illegal inspection, so-called, of drug registration. However, this inspection did not take place until the drug was registered. How do you feel about what? To license small pharmacies. The government doesn't care that we have small-scale pharmacies that belong to us.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u15	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u16	Such actions will never be sustained. The “For Ukraine” group did not join the coalition because we will never cover such actions of the government, all of which we have put into question and will inform you, honourable national deputies, of the investigation of these facts of violations of the Constitution and the laws of the Government of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u17	John Stojko refers the right to speech to Jaroslav Kendzior, the faction “Our Ukraine – the People’s Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u18	Jaroslav Kenzior, “For Ukraine” MP, “Our Ukraine” faction. Dear Head, my fellow national MPs, man as a particular person, is defined in all of his, they say, brightness and completeness, and honesty in times of anxiety, in times of danger or for his family, or for the state when we speak here. So are political parties or political groups. All that was done yesterday in the Supreme Council has once again borne witness to the whole of Ukraine, to the world as an active, unforgivable branch of the Moscow Duma and the Moscow Kremlin in the sessional hall of the Ukrainian National Parliament. You know, you can be surprised by things, but when a large group, a large part of the deputies of the Ukrainian Parliament are willing to sell Ukraine to earn, as it were, respect and friendly treatment of their Moscow hosts, you can't understand that. But it's not particularly surprising, because these party factions have shown themselves in Parliament more than once. But we have declared that a democratic, national, state coalition has been created in the Ukrainian Parliament. And when this coalition failed to accept the draft decision of Viacheslav Kirilenka yesterday, it would seem, well, perfectly normal, without any kind of policy, and it was not always voted in favour of Ukraine by Vladimir Litwin and his faction, I, my honourable colleagues, refuse to accept what we have in us as a democratic coalition. And especially I'm addressing the democratic coalition's godfather, MP Tarasyuk. He provoked the creation of this coalition, which has nothing to do with the name “democratic, national and national”. Let him take responsibility today for the fact that this coalition is completely taking shape and taking on the characteristics of an anti-President, anti-State coalition! So Ukraine needs to know who is who in the Ukrainian Parliament, because only in such circumstances, on that basis, are these people in the next Parliament who are willing to sell their mother for their own dividends. If so, Ukraine will never be a normal state.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u19	Ladies and gentlemen. I'm asking you to calm down. There's only one thing I can say, I'd like to ask my esteemed colleagues not to give up their domestic disputes for the sake of national interests, because they're far from public interest. [[Applause]] Ivan Stepanovich Plush, faction "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense". Lilia Grigorovitch, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u20	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, citizens of Ukraine! While all Orthodox Christians were driving the Little Goat yesterday, the same goat unfortunately led Gazprom. Why Again on Gas? But because the issue is not resolved, because the cold has the same regions that have just been plagued by previous speakers, especially the South and the East. Because yesterday, after running for 2 hours a certain amount of gas, it became known that there was no pressure. Why was it like this all the time? In view of this, dear friends, we have talked a lot about the economic, financial conditions of this situation. Let me give you a few thoughts on the historical and moral plan. Dear colleagues, Europe, which has survived fascism, communism, today has been at the threshold of a new terrible geopolitical phenomenon called “gasoputism”. What is “gasoputism”? This is when, with the help of winter cold and Siberian gas, which happily ends because the pressure in the chimney is small, they want to impose their political will. What it means is to cool the whole of Europe down so that when it freezes, it will say: “Ukrainian women, go back into the stable, because we are frozen.” But that's not gonna happen. Europe is not changing its values into gas, so Ukraine will continue to move on to Europe. The second goal is to usurp the gas transport system, as is done with Belarus. The third goal is to encourage the building of a north gauze in Ukraine. It's true, there's nothing to chase. In view of this, it is not easy for respectable friends. If we want Ukraine to be with gas, we need to determine that we need to maintain a common, single position that suits national interests. To improve relations with Russia, according to a part that does not actually work in Ukraine, is necessary. Give away the gas transport system, the Crimea, then independence and the soul. Are you ready for this? We don't. In view of that, I would like to address Vladimir Mikhailovich. I respect you as a man, you're a very interesting man as a historian, but as head of the Supreme Council, I have a claim. Not only did you gather meetings of the Supreme Council last week, but when there was a flood in a particular region of Ukraine, not in all of Europe, it was done. Secondly, we will have gas and Europe will have gas when Ukraine shows a consolidated position. If we have 221 votes in favour of Ukrainian national interests and, I'm sorry, the rest is against, most of them, we won't solve the question. So I insist, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, once again that Viacheslav Kirilenko be determined and supported by all the voices if we want Ukraine to be with the gas. National MP Popov is transferring the right to speak to national deputy Har Vassil Georgievic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u21	The country and the unenviable fate of the people of Ukraine, and it is not clear what he has done to God, that he has been harmed by the power of the President, the Prime Minister and the Orange Coalition. By its diletating activities, it has buried not only basic industrial enterprises, but also entire industries: construction, metallurgical, chemical, agro-industry and others. By provocations with Russian gas, the Ukrainian authorities have brought to a complete halt 23 other major enterprises that have provided half of the country's gross produce and budgeted, and which have, by the way, more than 2 million people. In the chemical industry, the disaster, all six nitrogen gas-using enterprises, has been halted. The situation in metallurgy is worse than in the Great War of the Fatherland. Of the 42 marten kilns, 11. Of the 13 electricity plants, only three have lost jobs and the livelihoods of hundreds of thousands of people. The President, Minister Pinzenyk and the entire Cabinet of Ministers pour crocodile tears on the budget, which they received, you see, only 10 per cent of the income from the planned ones. What is lacking in the $5.5 billion budget is a pension bill. Did you gentlemen expect the industry you killed to fill the budget? The authorities had little victory over industrial production. They're running a small business. Powerless actions, the imposition of excessive taxes drives out the streets, and so full of unemployed, tens of thousands of market workers. What is behind the adoption of the 2009 anti-national State budget, supported by the orange budget. The minimum wage – frozen, living minimum – is a fictional, under-paid twice, which will benefit all workers, pensioners, students, disabled persons, veterans without exception. The budgeters were in the worst position. This is what the President and the Prime Minister need to hate teachers, doctors, cultural workers so much that the rate of the first level of the budget is not higher than the minimum wage laid down by law, and not even at the minimum wage level, but below 545 bracelets. This is the way to their poverty. The President, the guarantor of the Constitution, the chief lover of his nation signed an anti-national budget on the eve of New Year's Eve, and immediately stated that it was useless and needed to be revised in January. It appears, however, that because of its love for the people, he vetoed the Act on Living Minimum, prepared by the faction of the Party of the Regions, which was to support the people of Ukraine during the crisis and increase its standard of living. As President of the Federation of Trade Unions of Ukraine, I met with Prime Minister Timoshenko on several occasions at the end of the year, and we discussed many issues, including the draft budget. I was promised that the proposals of the FPF on social measures would be taken into account. However, the adopted budget proves the hypocrisy of the Cabinet of Ministers, and everything is done the other way around. Members of the trade union ask me daily who the President is, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u22	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u23	Who are the President, the Prime Minister and the Orange Coalition, and who gave them the right to mock the country and the people? I cannot answer that question, I know that if these diletants do not leave power voluntarily and not allow others to save the country from a complete breakdown, it will take some time, and the people themselves will be desperate to consider them not only from the power seats but also from the political arena. There is still an opportunity to ease the fall of the country and the Supreme Council must do so. The faction of the Party of the Regions proposes to cancel the holidays and save the country. First from the President and the Cabmine and then from the crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u24	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the speech is over. Dear National Deputies! I want to. One minute! Honorable fellow workers! [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, now there's gonna be a line, calm down, please. With regard to the final proposal made by our deputy. National Deputy Har Vassil Georgievovich: at 11 o'clock we will continue our sessions. I'd like to ask the leaders of the MP factions, as we agreed, to hold a meeting of the Conciliation Council. And the first thing I'm going to do is put your proposal to the vote so there's no vacation. And I'd like to ask her to support the Supreme Council. That's the first one. Just a minute. The other one. We'll discuss the issues that we agreed on yesterday at the Conciliation Council. Finally, the third. Regarding the proposal here, why there had never been a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, an additional or special one, to discuss the situation in the gas market in the gas field. I, my distinguished colleagues, have informed you that I have consulted with the President, the Prime Minister, the leaders of the MP factions and the President, and the Prime Minister have now proposed not to arouse the situation, because we are about to agree on a gas adoption. So I'd like to ask the MPs who are doing this, figure out how to sink and who to listen to. The faction’s leaders, when we discussed the subject, came to the conclusion that the issue would not be prepared for reasons that were not clear when the agreement was signed or not signed at all. So I am convinced that we will return to this question repeatedly. Now, in view of the accusations that have been made, I ask fellow believers at the same time to respond to each faction one minute at a time. mainly for a project, more specifically, on a proposal for a schedule of meetings for today. Please, from every faction. Party of regions, who's it gonna be? Who, who? Alexy Kostuyev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u25	Thank you. Noting that, before 1 January 2009, the Government had had every opportunity to conclude a contract for the supply of gas at an acceptable price for Ukraine and did not do so solely because of its free will. It is the Government that is responsible for stopping our industrial enterprises, increasing unemployment and impoverishment of the people. So do not look for those you will always try to make responsible for your mistakes. It won't work! This time you'll have to answer it yourself. And the second. The Ukrainian Antimonopoly Committee does not participate in the privatization of any enterprises, including the archenegro. Ask Alexander Bondar's deputy, he's sitting next to you, he'll explain it to you, it's the function of the Housing Fund and the Cabinet of Ministers. As an intern MP, you should know that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u26	Ivan Kirilenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u27	Dear colleagues! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Yesterday at the Conciliation Council, you convinced us that we should compromise on these issues. To vote in the Hall, to create a single Temporary Investigation Commission to deal with these issues, to inform Parliament and Ukrainian society. You saw that the situation was difficult. Thank you for settling it. But in the hall, you saw those who won last night continue to oppress their own. We're initiating to take a deep and meaningful look at today's creation of the Temporary Special Commission in order to figure out all the corruption schemes in the gas field and end-of-life dots. And "Rosukrenerego" and so on. The President of Russia is already accusing, already naming names. Therefore, we do not have the authority of the previous Temporary Commission, once they continue to oppress the situation. We are initiating the composition of the Temporary Commission tomorrow, and we will propose a decision. And tomorrow, let's vote in the hall. And really, get everyone on clean water. Today, let us work on the Rules, and on the order of the day. And we'll support the vote in the hall to continue our work without a break.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u28	Yes, thank you, Ruslan Knazevich, please, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense."
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u29	Dear colleagues! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! It seems to me that it is, you know, the peak of man’s cynicism, which occurs twice a month in the session hall, to instruct and encourage deputies to continue the parliamentary holidays. I mean, Mr. Haru, who, contrary to the requirements of the Constitution, has for two months been in grave violation of and compatibility with another kind of activity. So I think we don't have to pedal this topic from the Party of Regions right now, but we have to at least implement the Constitution in this part and then moralize and teach others. Because if the MPs have already planned to work with the electorate, there is no need for large and tall roosters to talk with their tongues about how we protect people, but to go to places, listen to them, and really solve their problems. So I think it would be more logical now to make a decision on today’s and Friday’s evening sessions to resolve complexly all the issues that have arisen today from the rostrum of Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u30	From the Communist faction of Mikola Kravchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u31	Cowchenko, the Communist faction. Vladimir Mihajlovich, at the end of this speech, I really took you very seriously on the question of consolidating the actions of the country's senior leadership to remove the situation from the gas crisis. If we don't understand that today's statement by the President has closed the door for him to Moscow, we're doomed. History indicates that the nations at times led to the death of the highest leaders. Therefore, Vladimir Mikhajlovich, you are highly dependent. You must initiate a tripartite meeting to determine the format of the tasks to be entrusted to the negotiators, otherwise we will not agree. Russia will never bring us 200 dollars' worth of gas.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u32	Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u33	Dear colleagues, some of our colleagues here have made some hysterical calls that blamed the Lithuanian Block's position on the gas issue, particularly yesterday. Dear colleagues, dilettarianism in the international field is the worst it can be. And the diletarian statement is unbalanced, part of which repeats the positions that are already in Ukrainian legislation, and the other part serves to exacerbate the situation and is, to some extent, provocative, obviously, not the one for which the "Clock of Lithuania" can vote. We have offered a statement that is aimed at the outcome, not at pyar, and not at the aggravation of the situation. Calling our colleagues from the Russian Federation to join the influence together to encourage governments to find understanding and actually start to conduct a civilized interstate dialogue. You need shocks and scandals, Your Honor, and we need a powerful and stable Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u34	Thank you. Dear colleagues, with regard to the proposal made by the National Deputy Mikli Kravchenka, we will discuss it at eleven o'clock on the Conciliation Council, we will make the appropriate decision and I am convinced that we should have a consolidated position. I ask of all the questions that have been violated by the National Deputies in their statements, statements, reports to prepare appropriate assignments. And to your acquaintance, I'll tell you, your honorary colleagues, one of the results of yesterday's so-called discussion of this complex problem, when there was a release of steam, not even gas, but just the release of steam, we got such a result that instead of having 15 numbers sitting in an interparliamentary commission, it wouldn't be sitting, it would be transferred to February, because we didn't even manage to accept a neutral statement calling for cooperation with the federal assemblies of the Russian Federation. It's the price of our political breakdowns in the middle of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, unfortunately. So, now, what? Regarding the decision, I said that of all the questions and suggestions that were made to prepare the corresponding assignments. With regard to the return to the decision of the national deputy Viacheslav Kirilenko, we will also discuss the matter at the Conciliation Council. But, dear fellows, we need to step in here so that we don't try to declare war again and then find someone to give up. Now, one minute. Well, I get it. That's why we've concluded, your honorary colleagues, the factions of the factions, there's been a charge against the national deputy, Har Vassil Georgievovich, in connection with the illegal reconciliation of the positions of the national deputy and the head of the Federation of Independent Trades, isn't it? The Ukrainian Federation of Trades, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u35	Dear colleagues, I am saddened to hear such a statement by such deputies, who have named my name. First of all, I would very much like to see, in fact, some lines of content. I'm very ashamed that, I think he's a lawyer because he worked at the Centre Collector and doesn't know exactly the laws. I hold the post of President of the Federation of Trade Unions of Ukraine on a public level, in accordance with the law, and to assess to me, as Chairman of the Committee, and as President of the Federation of Trade Unions of Ukraine. And he can't see how many times I've been in the room and how many times I've been on the committee. I have done my work with dignity and claim to date I have not been before the Supreme Council, both in the committee and in the Federation of Trade Unions of Ukraine. If it makes him feel bad and he has, well, he probably has a law degree, let him raise the law, let him come to me in the Federation of Trade Unions of Ukraine, I'll show him the papers and he'll extend his legal perspective. And let him not disgrace the Supreme Council with such vain and foolish speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u36	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have completed the speeches, the exchange of replicas from all the suggestions, the claims that have been made will be prepared with appropriate instructions, including this issue, which will go to the Committee on Rules, MPs and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council. The answer will be given both to the national deputies and to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Let's agree to that. Dear colleagues, we are now moving on to the issues set out in the January 14 schedule. I'd like to ask you now, given that we have many bills to consider today, to put to the vote a motion to consider them under a reduced procedure that we agreed on at the Conciliation Council. May I have your attention, please? I am putting to the vote the issue of reviewing the reduced procedure for the bills that have been tabled for consideration today on 14 January 2009. Please vote. [[10:46:33]] For 202 Decision taken. A draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences on Improving Responsibility for Disposal of Trials and disrespect for the Court is being announced for consideration. Bill registration number 3073. Reporter: Justice Minister Mikola Vasilovich Onichuk The co-reporter will be the head of the committee's subcommittee on law enforcement issues, Victor Viktorovich Shevchuk. Please, Mikola Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u37	Thank you. Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! A bill that I have just introduced by the President of Ukraine on the draft initiative of the Supreme Court, which was supported by the National Commission, and the strengthening of democracy and the establishment of the rule of law. What is the need for such a bill? You know that of the nearly 500 cases that the European Court of Justice is responsible for, 80 percent of them relate to the problem of violating reasonable terms of pretrial investigation, judicial review and enforcement. And this bill is designed, in particular, to oblige the parties to the trial to be more disciplined. This is particularly the case in order to amend article 175 of the Code of Administrative Offences, which provides for the responsibility of the participants in the trial for failing to appear in court, and I refer to victims, witnesses, translators, experts, for no valid reason. The current editorial of this article foresees such administrative responsibility only in the event of malicious exorcism. And evil evasiveness actually predicts it's systematic, not less than twice, for no valid reason. The project suggests that the administrative responsibility for failing to appear before the court for no valid reason should come without a qualified sign, and that you apologize for what is, among other things, an evil exodus. The project also foresees differentiated liability for contempt of court, depending on the degree of social vulnerability of such acts, and foresees the possibility of administrative arrest for gross misconduct during court proceedings. At the same time, it is proposed to extend the scope of responsibility by further extending the article to any person whose participation in the case is deemed mandatory by the court. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u38	Thank you, Mikolo Vasilovich, sit down. Victor Viktorovich Shemchuk, please. From the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u39	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Law Enforcement of Law Enforcement has considered a draft law submitted by the President of Ukraine amending the Code of Administrative Offences to improve liability for failure to deal with judicial cases and disrespect for the courts. The bill proposes to amend the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences by introducing article 185 with 3 of the new edition of the Code of Administrative Offences. Such changes are aimed at ensuring legal action to overcome the long-term treatment of various categories of cases by the courts for reasons that do not depend on them: failure to appear before the court of the parties to the trial, failure to meet the requirements of the relevant persons of the court to provide information and documents necessary for the objective and complete examination of civil, administrative and other categories of cases, gross breach of order during court proceedings for the absence of signs of criminal action. After reviewing the bill and considering it at the meeting, the committee considers it necessary to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it on first reading as a basis. The Supreme Court of Ukraine also supports such a decision by the committee, and the observations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Expert Office, as concluded, can be taken into account when preparing this bill for second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u40	Thank you, Victor Victorovich. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for two in favor, two in favor. On the board, please show the names of the national MPs. Anna Mikolayevna Herman, please. I'll take it from the rostrum. Microphone? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u41	Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that unfortunately we are only dealing with cosmetics here, talking about reform of the judicial system. Every person in Ukraine knows, and I think the minister of justice knows this too, that the Ukrainian courts are working to order that there is no average person in the Ukrainian court without money who has no wide shoulders behind him. And we can't count on the justice of the Ukrainian Court, we're ordinary citizens. In our eyes, too, there were times when the national deputies dictated the court, took the telephones to the judges, made the riots in the courts, we saw it all, none of it answered. The Ukrainians are not equal before the law, and we need to talk about this today. We can vote on this bill, of course we'll support it, but will it, in principle, change the big problem facing Ukrainian society? There are no independent courts in Ukraine, and there are very few just judges in Ukraine. The parable in the tongues was that of the dollars they sowed there in the courtrooms and those who roofed such judges. And today we have to talk about the principles of things -- about reform of the judicial system in the complex, not about some cosmetics that will help someone out there, but that will not solve the terrible problem that is in Ukraine, where Ukrainians cannot hope that they can find justice in the Ukrainian court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u42	Mikola Dmitrovitch Catherinechuk, faction "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u43	The European Party of Ukraine, the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Well, I'd say it's a very interesting bill, where a new edition of the concept of "having disrespect for the court" is practically being presented. I would like the national MPs to pay particular attention because it is about court hearings. So the speed of the process will depend directly on how many participants can participate. In my opinion, there are valid questions about, for example, expanding the subject’s responsibilities, such as experts, specialists, translators, who do not find time to come to court when they need it when they need it. But there is some doubt as to the question of drawing a witness to the responsibility. And I would like us to understand, however, that a witness is a very important part of the trial, and we can't so, you know, recklessly refuse to allow a witness to come, even if he has valid reasons, for the second time he doesn't come through internal affairs. Nevertheless, the suggestions are interesting, and we need to discuss them. I think so. That the bill should be supported in the first reading and that the second reading should be amended as to the subject’s composition, as well as the size of the fines proposed in the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u44	Oleg Laszko, faction of the “Blanket of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u45	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. It should be noted that, in recent times, the bills coming out of the President's Secretariat have been far from perfect. And I think that the President and the head of his Secretariat should pay attention to the work of the legal service -- and submit to Parliament, the country's higher legislative body, bills that are worthy of attention, not those that are rejected. What can be said about this bill? The faction of the Yulia Timoshenko decided to support it only in the first reading and only on condition that it would be worked very carefully by the Main Committee under the chairmanship of Viktor Dmitrovic Schwetz. We trust the Main Committee, and we hope that all the inadequacies in this bill will be removed from there, for example, by the standard proposed to impose administrative responsibility for the first failure to appear before a court. I mean, you were sent a message, for some reason you didn't get it, and you could be drawn to administrative responsibility. It seems to me that this is a draconian measure that is proposed to impose on people who may not even be guilty of not receiving this message or of being brought to trial. Therefore, the bill needs careful work. And we hope that the Main Committee, when it is submitted to the Supreme Council for second reading, will remove all the problematic issues that colleagues have been talking about here, the National Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u46	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill is closed. Indeed, there are a number of comments to this bill that have been made in the speeches of the national MPs, as well as in the conclusions of the Scientific and Experimental Authority. Therefore, the committee’s proposal is to accept it in the first reading, that is, on the basis of it, and to work seriously. I am voting on a proposal by the adoption committee based on draft law, registration number 3073 amending the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences to Improve Responsibility for Discharge of Trials and Dishonesty in Court. Please vote. Please, Your Honor, vote. [[10:57:46]] For 232 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, before we announce the second, next bill, I'm doing another announcement to the faction leaders, to the head of the 11th-hour Economic Policy Committee, to meet for the Conciliation Council. But the work of the Supreme Council will continue in plenary mode under the leadership of Alexander Volodymyrovich Lavrinovich. The draft Law, registration number 2640, on amending the National Programme for the Adaptation of Ukrainian Legislation to European Union legislation, is being announced for consideration. The rapporteur – Deputy Minister of Justice of Lutkovska Valerija Volodymyrna, will be the co-rapporteur of the Committee on European Integration – Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u47	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, your point is to propose a draft law amending the national programme for the adaptation of Ukrainian legislation for the period 2004-2007, which we propose to extend until the partnership and cooperation agreement that is valid today in our relations with the European Union is in effect. This is primarily due to the fact that the second phase, which can be formulated and the priorities of this phase can be formulated after the first complete exercise of the tasks as set out in the first stage and, secondly, when new priorities for Ukraine's cooperation with the European Union are formulated. As of today, Ukraine and the European Union have agreed that the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement will be valid until the negotiations and the new Association Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union are concluded. Since these negotiations are still going on, although they are in a rather active stage, we propose that the first step of adapting Ukraine's legislation to European Union legislation be pursued as long as there is a valid partnership and cooperation agreement. Moreover, we cannot say what is happening today, despite the considerable progress that has been made in the implementation of the tasks of the state programme, that we have implemented today all the priorities that are defined in this programme, in particular, part of the government's priorities, but we cannot say that we have created a state-wide system of verification of all draft laws in terms of their conformity with the acts of the European Union. So we suggest that we continue to work in this direction until new priorities are defined in our cooperation with the European Union and, accordingly, until a new association agreement becomes effective. Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u48	Thank you, Valery Volodymyr. The story is Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk. Is Tarasuk Boris Ivanovich in the hall?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u49	Dear Lord Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The Committee on European Integration considered at its meeting a draft Act on the amendment of the national programme for the adaptation of Ukraine's legislation to European Union legislation, and decided to recommend it to the Supreme Council as a whole. The changes to this state-wide programme, proposed by the government, are aimed at ensuring the continuity of the adaptation process in the period leading up to the signing of the new association agreement between Ukraine and the European Union. The Committee on European Integration therefore supports the Cabinet of Ministers' initiative to continue the first phase of the programme until the conclusion of the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union and the conclusion of the new agreement. We propose to adopt the bill as a basis and as a whole by supplementing it with the fact that it takes effect from the day it was published. The Committee on Budgetary Questions also supports these proposals. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u50	Thank you. Please, sit down and sign up for the discussion. Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u51	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! This bill is really very small, it's literally one line. And in principle, I don't think there's any negatives or any objections to its acceptance. I would just like to explain why, because I was speaking as a representative of Minustu, which is very simple, and I would like to say that. Chapter 4 of the current version of the program says that the first phase of the programme is planned for 2004-2007, and that's what was said. Next thing you know, it's a setup, or it's a logic. Chapter 5 of the program: “The objective and objectives of the first phase of the program are to provide that at the first stage of the programme, the priority areas in which legislation is adapted are the areas defined by article 51 of the UPS. [[Partnership and Cooperation Agreements]] Thus, the first phase of the program is directly linked to the deadline, with the duration of the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement. So the bill is perfectly logical, but I can't help but say, because the developer is the Ministry of Justice, I'd like to ask the Ministry to use the position of our Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council in its work. Because you're passing a bill to the Supreme Council, and you've put it out of order, you know that, the introduction of this bill. In line with part seven of article 85 of the Provisional Rules of the Supreme Council, each bill should have a position on the order in which it takes effect. Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk knows it, he added it, so if we take that into account, then we can vote in general. But I would like you to use, including the Rules, as we use your legislative initiatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u52	Stonewall Valery Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u53	Dear colleagues! I would like to be the leader of the permanent delegation of our Parliament in such a distinguished European institution as the Central European Initiative to support this bill and to inform you of the following. On November 18, this year, the Parliamentary Assembly held another session of the Central European Initiative in Chisinau. At this session, I would like to remind you once again that this organization is designed to prepare for the accession to the European Union of new countries that are not members of the European Union today. Ukraine also has a desire to join the European Union, and we all support that desire. And the Parliamentary Assembly stressed this, stressed Ukraine's desire to join the European Union, including the importance of adapting the legislation of those countries that are preparing to join the EU in the process of adapting to European Union legislation. So this is a very important topic, and I urge all parliamentarians to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u54	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u55	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense. Dear National Deputies! Such a simple bill is extraordinary, only in the bill is seven sentences. Seven lines and seven lines, we can't write it down when the law goes into effect? Ladies and gentlemen! At least then read the expert board's conclusions, then run for another, do not compromise the government with unprepared bills. I urge you to do so. You can't do that. What is more, we need to take the law out of the voice right now in the first and second readings. That's the first one. The other one. I'm talking to the foreign policy department, you're breaking up with serious beginnings right now. Who knows that, in fact, on a political level, MP Tarasyuk has now won a capture or struggle with a gas monopoly. Who knows? No one knows, you don't put it anywhere. Why the question today is, I'm talking about discussions at the Council of Europe, and in its institutions, I'm asking why we're getting so close to the European Union today, that everyone who comes here without a visa and our people are being bullied. When will this end? When will the mirror be reflected? I'm going to Victor Andryovich Yushchenka, who's lost on the budget, Victor Andryovich, count the benefits we've received over the years that we've discovered. We didn't get any benefits. We get the minuses. Therefore, this law must be written down as Boris Ivanovich now said when it takes effect from the day of publication. In fact, it will be in operation by March 2009, but I am against the drafting of such bills. If there is inadequacy, the run should be replaced and replaced.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u56	Herman Hanna Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u57	Dear colleagues, there is no patriotic political force in Ukraine that would oppose Ukraine’s integration into the European Union. The Party of Regions has also always expressed the idea of European integration and the adaptation of Ukrainian legislation to European Union legislation, which was a wonderful idea a year ago. But today, what European integration of Ukraine you're talking about when Ukraine became not a bridge between East and West even but a buffer between Moscow and Brussels. When the actions of today’s authorities were completely ruined, they discredited the idea of Ukraine’s European integration. When the government and the President have done their utmost to make Ukraine an unreliable partner, an unreliable partner, and a country that no one seriously sees as a member of the European Union. So all we're doing here right now is, you know, sort of copying in some old bag that Europe's never going to be looking at again anytime soon. We must change the current power and bring to power the pragmatists who will take real steps to integrate Ukraine into the European Union, who will restore our country to high authority and high credibility. And now, you know, we're going to adapt legislation or we're not going to make absolutely no difference in principle, because now no one is looking at Ukraine as a real partner at least for associate membership.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u58	The discussion is over. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in the first reading of the draft Act amending the Universal Programme for the Adaptation of Ukrainian Legislation to European Union Legislation, No. 2640. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:11:08]] For 235 Decision taken. The draft law is being announced for consideration. A proposal was made to take into account the amendment of the committee’s head, Tarasyuk Boris Ivanovich, to adopt the draft law as a whole. Any objections to the national MPs? There is no objection to voting in the entire draft Law No. 2640 amending the Universal Programme for the Adaptation of Ukrainian Legislation to European Union legislation. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:12:06]] For 238. The law has been passed in general. A draft Law on packaging and packaging waste is being announced for consideration. Number 1415. The report is the National Deputy of Ukraine, Kseniya Mikhailovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u59	Dear colleagues, this bill is designed because the situation in Ukraine in waste management, manufacturing and consumption is actually critical. Each of you faces this when he comes to his district and hears the complaints of our citizens. That's a fact. In the household sector alone, about 50 million cubic feet [50 million cubic m] of household waste is accumulated annually. About 35-45 percent of them are waste from packing. Regrettably, government regulation in this area today is characterized by an imbalance in the duplication of powers, not by the division of these powers, as a result, in fact, of a complete waste management system, such as packaging, not today. There are no commitments, no adequate sources of funding, and there is, in fact, total chaos in this system. The drafters of this bill are a group of authors, representatives of each faction participated. I can tell you, this bill is completely nonpolitical. We have actually studied in the preparation of this bill the experience and the European Union, and the corresponding directive of the European Union, and the experience of the Eastern European countries that have already made the right decisions, and today they have a much better answer to the question of how to dispose of where to take money, how to build a waste management scheme from packaging. What exactly is this bill doing? The responsibility of all subjects in the package life cycle and the required subjects for the disposal of packaging waste is established. It is introduced according to European experience as planned for the disposal of packaging waste for a period of five years.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u60	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u61	The concept and the system of conduct are defined. Organizational and legal principles for the establishment of an appropriate coordinating organisation are being established. Finally, there is a body that will be the state authority that will be responsible for the implementation of this law. The adoption and implementation of this law will greatly improve the environmental situation in Ukraine, make us clear and give us a clear answer as to how to build a recycling scheme, how to finance it, and how it can be done today and in Europe. Thank you very much, dear colleagues. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u62	The report is Kalchenko Valeriy Mihajlovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, Honourable Alexandre Volodymyrovich, the committee at its meeting in March 2008, reviewed the draft Law on packaging and packaging waste submitted by the National Deputies: Lapina, Shersun, Burlakov, Calchenk, Slobodan. Indeed, the waste management system, traditionally established in Ukraine through rescue companies and reception facilities, needs improvement. The government's attempt to establish a collection and disposal system in accordance with Order 915 of July 26, 2001, in seven years, unfortunately, has not made a positive decision because it has been done by a state monopoly company. Such a situation resulted from the imperfections of existing legislation and separate regulations in the field of waste management. I would like to point out that according to the bill, entities producing packaging are transferring their obligations to implement the waste management standards of an authorized organization, a system operator, who in turn makes agreements with local self - government authorities and specialized waste collection and disposal companies. I would like to emphasize that, indeed, the law has significant shortcomings that have been expressed, both in the expert opinion of the Scientific and Experimental Authority and in the central government. At the same time, there were no points of principle. Everyone understands that such a bill is necessary. I think we can do both the copyright team and the committee to develop this law and create an adequate basis for adapting Ukraine's legislation to European Union legislation in the field of packaging and waste. It's specific.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u64	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u65	Notices and suggestions show that they can be taken into account. The committee proposes to support this bill on the basis of further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u66	Thank you, Valery Mikhailovich. If you would like to share in the discussion, please sign in. Yavorovsky Volodymyr Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u67	Vladimir Yavorowski, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, town of Kirovograd, 95 constituency district. Dear colleagues, I just want to remind you and those who are listening to us right now that, literally, there were some other 10 to 15 years ago we were wondering about the plastic first bottles that appeared, wondering about the different packages and so on. Today, it is no longer surprising, but of course, the concern that we have in Ukraine can soon simply grow new Carpathians out of bottles. Remember, you've all seen it, all of it, you know, our off-roads, our forests that are close to the populace, what's going on there and what's going on there. So it's like, literally, the avalanche, the colossal avalanche, is coming at us with these plastic different wastes. Because of this, I think there are some points to this bill, but it's very timely. And I wanted to thank Mrs. Lapinius for referring to this sort of small-scale problem, and in fact, it's not just an environmental one, but a public one, so I would call it. So it seems to me that in the second-reading law, maybe you should put it more clearly in two directions of the way out of this situation: first of all, it's a disposal, and that's where it's all developed normally. But I'd like to remind you, given today's crisis and the middle of our class, it could be a simple-to-just colossal business that nobody knows about, it's the processing of these same things, let's say, bottles, wastes and so forth in different non-food, so to speak, products there are all kinds of things. It's very important, and it needs to be done, because other peoples, to them, have this problem long ago, and it's a good thing that we today, the Ukrainian Parliament, have addressed it the same way today. The “Julia Tymoshenko Block” will support the first reading, and all comments will be made.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u68	Crnowil Taras Viacheslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u69	Dear colleagues, the coreporter, said that everyone understood how much this law needed. I'm obviously a little bit wrong, because I don't understand why, when there's a huge universal Waste Act, create a separate absolute law that applies to packaging. So if you go on with this logic, then the next law is about packaging, then the Sculptor Act and the PET, the bottles, the PET tar, then the other packing methods -- the paper packaging, the plastic stuff there, something else. How much are we going to take in our legislation? Then there are very serious and interesting problems: we continue to make changes to laws, some changes to the Waste Act, other changes to the Packaging Act. And now this first version of the bill is no longer in line with the Waste Act. If we go through the second step, the third step, we're going to get two completely opposite laws that are going to regulate the same issues in different ways. And that's why I don't think there's any logic in the introduction of a new law at all. A small part of the packaging concerns health standards for food products and so on, where they can be applied, fire safety and so forth. There is an appropriate set of laws to which appropriate additions should be made. This is about utilization. All other points, including financial and economic developments, need to be properly worked out in the Waste Act. And then we're going to be introducing 10 different, completely conflicting laws for each individual problem. You know, I don't think it makes sense. And that's why, personally, I speak for myself, not for the faction, I cannot personally support this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u70	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u71	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. Ladies and gentlemen, I am addressing those who have not read this bill. This bill I would like to refer to as this: the fight against the Ucrecomresources company of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Maybe let's listen to the government, hear how it implements the Waste Laws, and decide with this enterprise. Is there an area of legal regulation that is subject to regulation in this law? None. It refers to the Law “On Wastes”. He doesn't have his own. Next. You'll think about it. Now speaking, Taras Viacheslavovich, did not say I agree with his arguments, but he did not say what was written in this law: a specially authorized central authority is introduced in the field of handling packaging waste. Not with the wastes that are already occupied by landfills for 2 percent of Ukraine’s territory today, but with regard to waste management. I'm addressing a committee of honor to me. People good, well, we're going to get this far, I don't want to talk about from the parliamentary rostrum, which we're not going to adopt anymore. But let's make sure we leave it in the legislative field, not destroy it. Individual pearls deserve evaluation, individual pearls is an administrative responsibility. And so we're doing the ministry on the packaging, on the wastes, and now we're doing the wrong thing in the field. This is article 24 of the 25th. Here's the administrative responsibility, here's the fines, right here. No legal committee, no other legal committees. What are we doing, ladies and gentlemen?Oh, my God! IS this the way to make a law? No, it should be a chapter in the Wastes Act. Period. And I will vote for it. And the chapter in responsibility, the individual articles in general, that's how this question is solved. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u72	The discussion is over. I'm voting on draft packing and packaging waste bill number 1415. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:24:59]] For 331 Decision taken. The draft Law on Amendments to the Water Code of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. National deputy of Ukraine, Shershun Mikola Haritanovic, reports.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u73	Thank you. The important chairman, colleagues, the need to amend Ukraine’s water code and regulate social relations in this area has long matured. The situation with the protection and use of water resources in the country has become a sign of danger. According to official reports, only some of the Crimea and Carpathian rivers can be considered conditionally clean from monitoring water resources. The management regime in coastal protection lanes and water protection zones is in violation of legislation. The issue of leases of water objects has remained unresolved since 2000, leading to an unscheduled lease of water objects, conflicts between owners and communities. We studied all the problems thoroughly and systematically, proposing changes to most of the articles of the Codex Water. The implementation of the bill will allow Ukraine’s Water Code to be brought into line with current legislation, improve Ukraine’s legislation on the protection and use of water objects and water funds, strengthen its management regime in coastal protection lanes, address the issue of ownership of water objects by the State and communities, address the issue of the provision of water objects in the use of leases, ensure a comprehensive approach to the use of water resources and their protection and reproduction. We are grateful for the comments made by the Committee on Budget Affairs, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Administration, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Environmental Protection, the State Department, the leading scientific organizations. A committee on environmental policy, environmental management, and the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster supported the proposed draft law. According to the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, the bill can be adopted as a basis. If we adopt such changes into the Water Code, it will become more socially and economically oriented, simpler, and transparent.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u74	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u75	Water use will be more simplified and transparent. I understand very well that this bill is not simple, and in order to create a law that meets the current challenges and threats, it requires the work of the entire Parliament. But delaying his acceptance is dangerous. That is why I urge you, dear colleagues, to work together and adopt this bill as a basis. And for the second reading to be further developed and adopted as a law, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u76	The report is Anatoly Ivanovich Seminoga, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u77	Dear Chief, distinguished national MPs! A bill to amend the Water Code introduced by the people's deputies, Shershun, Scoobenko, in Tolstoy. The bill, in practice, is balanced and offers a systematic solution to the problems that have arisen over many years. In general, he deals with many questions that have not been resolved before. In particular, the allocation of ownership rights to water objects between the State and the community, the issue of rent, the protection of citizens’ rights, such as general water use, free access to water facilities for cultural and health purposes, and so forth. The bill deals with the settlement of the island’s economic activity, and it refers entirely to the coastal protection strips. I am also convinced that everyone supports the need to increase the use of coastal protection lanes, to ban illegal washing of land on water funds, and to change their relief. The bill provides for the redistribution of water, water, and local budgets of 20 percent of the water supply. It is worth noting that many of the amendments proposed in this bill are responding to the problems that have been brought about by citizens, by public organizations, by local self-government bodies, and this shows that a dialogue between the electorate and the Supreme Council is being settled. The committee noted that the bill contributed to the improvement of the water legislation of Ukraine, the conservation of water resources, and made a number of observations. In particular, it is proposed to develop and specify the position of Article 13 regarding the transfer of water resources to the pool principle. The bill is supported by the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Environmental Protection, the State Guide to Ukraine. The Chief Expert Office has made several comments, but in general it supports the bill. Let me draw that out.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u78	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u79	Thank you for your attention, and please support the bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u80	Let's sign up for a discussion. Crnowil Taras Viacheslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u81	Dear colleagues! The bill in my opinion really needs to be adopted because those issues are settled enough, but only with one warning: you can only accept them in the first reading. There are also a number of disagreements with the second article of the Water Code, the Codex earth. They have to be reconciled, carried out, reduced to a more or less thin normal system. But unfortunately, it's only by this very bill that we can save the same daiprovan pools, save coastal lanes, islands, and so on, so this bill should only be the first step. And then, unfortunately, we have to introduce a lot of other, more stringent methods of responsibility, not of contrasting the law, but of responsibility for violating it. Criminal responsibility must be imposed far more severe than it is today. And that's the only way we're going to be able to save her. But for it to be a foundation, there is a basis for further legislative settlement -- the best way, really, to start with the steps that are in this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u82	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u83	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense." Dear National Deputies! First of all, allow me to express my gratitude to the authors of the Shersun, Skoubenko, Tolstouchov bill for not formally coming up to the development and raising of this set of problems that are now emerging here. But it's obvious that the plane of what we're going to do to make our environment safer and how we're going to save the land of the water fund, and how we're going to build Ukraine, obviously the root isn't here right now. I understand that the authors wanted to improve the situation. And they're really improving it. They write how to do it in cities and how to do it in other places, and they make them do it. But this bill, without the implementation of the Water Code, is not worth anything. Just as water and earth codes in the country are not being implemented today. So I'm obviously going to the profile committees and the law enforcement committee and the environmental committee. Let's start with the question of the report here, on this stand, of the Attorney General of Ukraine, of the Ministry of Ecology, so that they can report on how the law is being implemented. Because under the current law, it's not possible to restrict people's access and to do all the threatening things that are now along Dniepra, all the other rivers, and everything that's going on right now. But it's happening, but there's no action, there's no use. Clearly, then, the state of implementation of legislation is most important today. Hence, responsibility for failure is also to be foreseen. But it is important to initiate listening to how compliance takes place.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u84	The bill is closed. I am voting on the adoption in the first reading of the draft Law on Amendments to the Water Code of Ukraine. No. 2634, please identify yourself. [[11:34:59]] For 382 Decision taken. A draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on improving the laws on agricultural societies is being announced for consideration. She reports: Anatoly Ivanovich Baluk, head of the State Commission on Securities and Stock Markets.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u85	Honourable Alexandre Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies, is proposed for your consideration by the draft Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving legislation on agricultural societies. The main objective of the draft law is to resolve the issue of the existence of a single participant. With a view to achieving the stated goal, the law proposes to amend the Civil Code of Ukraine and the Ukrainian Law on Economic Associations. Complementing with the new part 6 of article 98 the general congregations of the members of the Civil Code society with the rule that when a society has a single participant, the authorization of the general congregations of society, provided for by law, as well as the internal documents of society, is carried out by such a participant in one way or another, without the convening of general congregations. The decision of the participants in matters falling within the competence of the general congregation is made in writing in the form of a protocol and is sealed by the Society. The relevant changes are made to article 145 of the Civil Code of Ukraine in part of the administration of a limited - liability society of article 159, the general congregation of shareholders of the Ukrainian Civil Code and articles 41 and 58 of the Ukrainian Association Act. In addition, the bill provides for the addition of part four of article 159 to the general shareholders’ congregations of the Civil Code by the rule that the statute of association may provide for more votes needed for decisions by the general shareholders’ congregations, in addition to decisions on the early termination of the powers of officials of the authorities of the association, the appeal to the court of appeal to the officials of the board of directors of the association regarding the compensation of the losses incurred by the association. The bill was drafted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine prior to the adoption of the Act on Shareholder Associations, which already regulates the creation and functioning of stockholder societies with one shareholder. Thus, the bill needs to be revised in order to take account of the relevant provisions of this law. Similar comments to the draft law are made by the Chief Scientific and Expert Office and the National Deputies of Ukraine, members of the Professional Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In view of the above, please support the bill and its next.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u86	Please finish Anatoly Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u87	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u88	Have a seat, please. The report is by Yuri Mikolaiovich Voropeyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u89	Dear colleagues, this bill has been considered by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Economic Policy and recommended that you adopt it on first reading as a basis. As the previous rapporteur has already said, the same view is expressed by the Chief Scientific and Expert Office. However, I would like to remind you that we have adopted the Shareholder Society Act here in the Supreme Council Hall and it enters into force on 30 April this year. This bill is somewhat contrary to the Act on Shareholders and certain rules, but somewhat requires further elaboration, for example, if a society consists of one participant, one shareholder, the Act on Shareholders proposes that a single citizen be taken in such a society, if he is a natural person, and that his signature be notarized. If the decision is taken by the Jurice, the sole shareholder of society, then the decision of the Jurice shall be guaranteed by the press of society. And I think that's more right. The bill proposes, including the decision of physicists, to assure simply the press of society, which can enable individuals, as it were, to act in a manner that is unconscionable and abusive. The Committee therefore proposes that it be adopted on first reading and, until the second reading, that it be finalized, brought into line with the Act on Shareholder Societies, including that part that is not regulated by the Act on Shareholder Societies in relation to limited liability societies and make identical and convenient for all societies in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u90	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Let's sign up for a discussion. Plotnikov National Deputy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u91	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! I fully agree with my colleague, Mr. European, that this is a very relevant draft law on change, and he deals with such important issues as the holding of general meetings of association by one person who is his only participant. Indeed, there is a need to make some changes, particularly for shareholders, the issues covered by the Act on Shareholders. Other issues remain unresolved, i.e. the need to make the changes that I was talking about. So from this point of view, there's an offer to support it in the first reading, and then to keep it going. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u92	The discussion is over. I am voting on a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving legislation on economic societies. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:41:25]] For 383 Decision taken. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on the formation of statutory capitals of agricultural societies]] He reports: Deputy Finance Minister Litwin Vladimir Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u93	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! Today, in accordance with article 86 of the master code of Ukraine and article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on Economic Societies, it is prohibited to use budgetary resources to form statutory capital for banks of agricultural societies. The provision thus deprives the State of the right to participate in the formation and increase of statutory capitals of agricultural societies. In addition, article 7 of the Banking and Banking Act establishes that the State Budget Act of Ukraine provides for expenditure on statutory capital formation of the State Bank for the corresponding year. Article 32 of the above-mentioned law allows the use of budgetary resources to form statutory capital to the bank if such funds have an appropriate purpose. However, these standards are not in line with the master code of Ukraine and the Ukrainian Law on Economic Associations for the Forming of Statuteal Capitals of State Banks. The ideaology of the proposed bill is to give the State the right at the legislative level, at the expense of the State budget provided for in the State Budget Act for the year in question, to participate in the formation and increase of statutory capitals of households. Thus, the proposed draft is subject to legal regulation to amend article 86 of the master code of Ukraine and article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on Economic Societies, which prohibits the use of the statutory capital of budgetary resources to be used in cases established by law. The adoption of the proposed bill at the legislative level will make it possible for the State to participate in the formation and increase of statutory capitals of economic societies at the expense of the State budget provided for in the State Budget Act for the year in question. Please support the project presented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u94	Thank you, sit down, please. Yuri Mikolaiovich Voropeyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u95	The bill 2639 is considered by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Economic Policy and is recommended to the Supreme Council to adopt it on first reading, i.e. as a basis. It's actually technical. It brings the differences between the two laws into line: The Banks and Banking Act, which provides for the possibility of establishing statutory funds of public banks through budgetary means, and laws on economic societies and the Ukrainian Economic Code, which prohibits the formation of statutory funds through budgetary means. However, the Committee also drew the attention of the Ministry, including the fact that this contradiction existed only for banks and financial institutions and had no relation to other economic societies. The second reading bill would therefore have to be clarified here that the authorization for the establishment of statutory funds for enterprises concerned only banks and financial institutions. And second moment. In amending the Economic Code and the Economic Associations Act, the developer failed to take into account changes to the second part of the same article, which obliges the independent auditor to carry out an audit of the person making a contribution to the Charter Fund. However, an auditor would not make an audit of the State, which would provide some statutory means. That is also the view of the Chief Expert Office. Therefore, the recommendation of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is to support it on first reading and until further reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u96	Thank you. Sit down, please. If you would like to participate in the discussion, please sign in. National MP Pisarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u97	Dear colleagues, I think that the kind of punctual operations that we started today in the Supreme Raja before the current legislation is a very good signal for society that the Supreme Council has been working on. And in this case with this bill, really, I don't think it's necessary to talk long about the need to adopt this bill, we need to support it. Our faction supports this bill. And what's more, I think you could consider even the whole of it today, because the question is simple enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u98	Celnik's Alexi Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u99	The honourable chairman, honourable national deputies, as the third in the previous case, I also propose to support this bill. In fact, this is a technical amendment, but it is proposed to introduce the standard of article 86 of the Code of Ukraine and article 13 of the Law on Economic Societies, which prohibits the inclusion of budgetary resources in the formation of statutory capitals of households, i.e. in accordance with the Law on Banks and Banking. It's really about technical adjustments, but they're very important for improving and entrepreneurial climate, and in general for normalizing business activities, such as equity companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u100	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u101	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is required. In fact, it is part of preventing the bankruptcy of the banking system, the funds that are being invested in or in these associations to form a statutory fund of society, from being credited or mortgaged or budgeted. That's the first one. But the other one. I address all our legislators, I address the government, to its institutions. I would especially like to be heard in both Minfin and the Ministry of Justice. Imagine that we have more than a hundred bills, several hundred bills with the same name, the title "To Change Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine". Imagine a student, a user, a citizen who wants to find a law on something and what the Supreme Council has accepted -- about changes to some Ukrainian legislation. What is difficult to write “as regards the formation of statutory funds of societies” and to put a dot? What is difficult to do in titles? It's not that hard. But people will be more comfortable, it will show the subject of regulation right away. And in two readings, unfortunately, a colleague, you can't accept this bill because you have to write down those comments that the committee said and about which the scientific and scientific department noted. I firmly agree with that. And I understand very well that the government is now extremely difficult, and it's looking at what's stopping the banks. And that's what we need to look at, and what's going on in the banking system? We need to go to the basic law -- about the National Bank and go back to the banks, because the rate of the bracelet that's going on right now is every citizen's poverty every day. That's why -- I don't know if the President can hear me right now -- but the storage of Stelmacha every day costs our citizens billions of dollars in office as a whole. That's why I have to.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u102	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u103	Thank you. Thank you. So I'd like us to make these changes, of course, to support them first. And secondly, they realized that it was necessary for the entire Supreme Council to make a decision to save the bracelet that the National Bank was supposed to save, but actually the Supreme Council was going to save because it needed to be saved today, and the possibility of that is the resignation of the entire National Bank of Ukraine team. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u104	The discussion is over. I am voting on the adoption in the first reading of the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine, No. 2639. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:50:39]] For 385 Decision taken. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Economic Societies is being announced for consideration. [[on the non-proliferation of restrictions on existing and registered limited liability societies]] Reported by the Ukrainian national deputy Slobodan Olesandr Viacheslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u105	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies! On May 20, 2007, the Ukrainian Act “On Amendments and Recognitions That Have Fallen Unfulfilled, Some Legislative Acts of Ukraine Due to the Adoption of the Civil Code of Ukraine. This law amends article 50 of the Ukrainian Law on Economic Societies, which establishes the maximum number of members of a limited liability society of 10 persons. In line with these changes, if the association does not reduce the number of founders to 10 within a year, it must be turned into an open stock company or disposed of. It should be noted that 1 million 186,000 235 associations were registered at the time of the adoption of these changes in Ukraine. A large part of these are more than 10 founding fathers. In my view, the limitation of the number of founders to 10 has created a particular problem for agricultural societies that have neither adequate material security nor professional security to reorganize these societies, including the mass of conflict situations. In addition, I would like to remind you that today the minimum statutory capital of a society with careful liability is 100 minimum wages and the stockholders' company is 12,50 minimum wages. The transformation of a limited liability society requires a substantial increase in statutory capital, which will result in economic losses for the country through the mass liquidation of economic operators. I'll say more, today I'm not aware of any case of the transformation of society into another organizational form, because in real conditions, it's virtually impossible to do that today. So it's logical, in my opinion, for me to propose action to limit the number of founders to 10 people to just introduce.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u106	Complete, please, Alexander Viačeslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u107	Up to 10 people, logically enter only when creating new societies and do not distribute to societies that were created until the adoption of the amendments to article 50 of the Ukrainian Law on Economic Societies since 27 April 2007. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u108	Thank you. Yuri Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u109	Draft Law 2081 was reviewed by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Economic Policy and the Committee's decision to invite you to adopt it on first reading until further reading here in the Supreme Council. I would like to draw your attention to the following. On 1 January 2004, the new Ukrainian Civil Code entered into force. And according to article 152, if I am not mistaken, this Civil Code of Ukraine establishes a rule that a limited society must be a separate law establishing the maximum number of participants. In compliance with this rule, by the end of the month. and during its work to bring Ukrainian legislation into line with the new Ukrainian Civil Code in 2007, the Supreme Council adopted amendments to the Economic Communities Act, which established this limit of ten members, participants. At the same time, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this restriction is to some extent necessary. How much is another issue already. Why? In equity societies alone, we now have a mechanism designed by you to protect minority shareholders. In societies with limited responsibility, there is no protection of a small participant and there is no protection for the time being, and we have not yet done it with you. Therefore, the idea of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt it on first reading and until second reading to finalize and determine the maximum size of these members of societies with limited liability.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u110	Thank you, Yuri Mikolaiovich. Have a seat, please. Let's sign up for a discussion. Plotnikov National Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u111	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! There's a proposal to support this bill because, really, well, maybe there's some discussion, maybe on the one hand, you can't limit the number of members of a limited-liability society. On the other hand, the legislator was primarily concerned about the need to protect the rights of such a participant. So there's a proposal for this bill to support, to work out some technical disagreements about the second reading. And in general, this will once again contribute to the improvement and activity of limited liability societies, and in general to the entrepreneurial climate in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u112	Thank you. Oleg Ivanovich Gumenjuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u113	Humenjuk Oleg Ivanovich, deputy group "For Ukraine", faction "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense". It is absolutely necessary to support this bill, because in a crisis that is not only in the economy of Ukraine, but all over the world now, the first priority of any state is to support the economic initiatives that entrepreneurship gives. And the State must take full care to make less barriers in the way of implementing this private initiative. Therefore, all that the Supreme Council can do to give way to the greatest possible number of limited - liability societies, including a large number of people, must be supported. But I would like to draw your attention to the following. The Supreme Council is currently discussing and adopting laws to restrict the statutory fund of companies with limited liability. I think that in parallel it would be possible to consider the issue, and to limit and reduce the barrier to statutory capital and open and closed stock companies, which would also help to increase their number and, accordingly, to work for the State. Thank you. We need to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u114	Pisarenko Valeriy Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u115	Dear colleagues! I'd like us to pay more attention to this bill, because there are some moments that don't allow it today. Look, please, what do we want? We just want to get a large number of businesses out of the law that we recently passed. So we're changing the rules that we've already set. We need to go the other way. If we want to save the societies that exist, we don't have to get them out of this law. All we have to do is extend the term for which they are to be converted into stockholder societies. Let's understand that those relationships that are formed between members of a limited liability society are completely different relationships than those formed in a shareholding society. So we went to law enforcement to limit the number of participants in society with limited responsibilities and to make them stockholders. So today, what no one wants to do is, well, this is not the basis for the Supreme Council today to adopt the laws that are being enforced by the Act on Shareholder Society. So today, a bill may need to be passed to extend the deadline. And it's already the deadline for it to be the final one to be transformed into a stockholder society. Or let's move on then to increase the number of participants in society with limited responsibilities. Or we do what we do after this bill has been passed, and after the Act on Shareholders has been fully implemented, there will be some hybrid in which individual stockholders will live by one law, other companies with limited liability will live by the old law. And what are we going to do with you after that? Therefore, all must live by the same law. And this bill needs to be rejected today.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u116	I am voting on the proposal for adoption in the first reading of the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Economic Societies. [[No. 2081]] I'd like to make a statement. [[12:00:47]] For 278 Decision taken. A break is announced in 12.30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u117	Ladies and gentlemen, we continue our morning plenary session. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Ukrainian State Prizes is being announced for consideration. [[No. 3058]] National deputy of Ukraine, Oleg Valeriyovich Ljashko, reports.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u118	Your Honorable Alexander Volodymyrovich, Your Honor, is proposing Bill 3058, which is the idea of this bill. To supplement the Ukrainian Law on State Prizes with article 12-1, which gives the exclusive right to the National Bank of Ukraine to produce orders, medals, emblems of honours of Ukraine, breastplates of Ukrainian State Prize winners and presidential badges. Where did this bill and its idea come from? I received three letters from the veterans of the Great Homeland War, who complained of the inadequacies of the prizes they had been awarded. As a result of a small investigation, it was found that the award of these national awards, a medal awarded to veterans to the next anniversary of victory in the Great Homeland War, placed the State Administration in the hands of the President of Ukraine. A tender was held, and the winner of the tender was one of the Kharkiv and one Kiev structures that won the tender, and they were making these awards. And so the unfortunate veteran who was given this medal got to the house, and he had it when he filmed it as a veteran, and it fell apart. That is, the medal itself is detached from what it hangs on. So these are the ones that we win the tenders, we know how they win these tenders, and then they make these medals. I'll tell you more about who of us was a national deputy in the fifth vocation, and notice, between the badges that we're wearing now and the ones that were made in the fifth vocation, they're different badges. Why? Because in the fifth call, the same badge was ordered by the Central Electoral Commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u119	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u120	One private Kiev structure. So, according to technical parameters, there was one metal, and as a result of the expertise that was made, they found a completely different metal, even though the money was paid for another. As a result, the Central Election Commission ordered these badges in the Bank Monetary Court, there's a sign in the back and we can be sure of the quality. I think that the government rewards of Ukraine should only be produced by a state institution – a monetary and monetary court, just as money does, government rewards like the flag, like the Hymn, like Herb, are symbols of the state. And it would be wrong for the brothers to put the matter into all kinds of shells of offices, and then to humiliate the feelings of the people who are rewarded with these rewards. Please support this bill! Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u121	According to the report, Vladislav Volodymyrovich Kaskov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u122	Thank you. Then vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u123	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear colleagues! The Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government at its meeting on 3 December 2008 considered the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on National Awards, registration number 3058 from 18.08.2008, which provides for the transfer of the exclusive right to produce Ukrainian State Prizes in the National Bank of Ukraine's Banking and Monetary Court. During the discussion at the meeting of the National Deputies, members of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, it was unanimously decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on State Prizes, registration number 3058, following the first reading, to be adopted as a basis. There are a few nuances that have been guided by MPs without making a decision in general, but the idea is generally correct, here was a discussion on whether to grant such a right only to state-owned enterprises, or only to the National Bank of Ukraine's Banking and Monetary Court, but this is the subject of a meaningful discussion that can be held between the first and second readings. Although I personally believe that this bill could be adopted as a whole. Thank you for your attention. Please discuss.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u124	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Let's sign up for a discussion. The People's Deputy of the Underworld.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u125	Please give the floor to Kamchatno.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u126	National Deputy Kamchatny, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u127	Thank you. Kamchat County of Kharkiv. I fully support the author of this bill, but I think the question needs to be asked more. Today, we must not just talk about producing rewards in one place with the necessary order, control, and so forth. In general, we should talk today about improving the concept of the prize. In time, such a document was born in the President’s Secretariat. I asked that question to Stavniczuk when she was here. But I don't think it's starting to go any further. Professionals, in fact, who know their business clearly, work in a department that deals with rewards. But as a result of sometimes being given from above, from the leadership of the President's Secretariat, there are appropriate political teams and then we have, we see misunderstanding decisions on reward issues. They reward people who have absolutely no right to these prizes, and on the contrary, those who, over the years whose affairs lie in the appropriate department of the Commission for Rewards, do not receive their deserved rewards. In particular, I think it would be appropriate for the President of Ukraine to include not only Kirilenka Viacheslav, who is the only member of the Supreme Council on this committee but also representatives of other factions. This would contribute to the democratization of the process of greater transparency, openness in the awarding of State rewards. Because I want to remind you that the prize is not only the President's prize, it is a national reward and it must be given on behalf of the state and its. The decisions taken on awards should, indeed, be taken by representatives of the people who have been elected, particularly to Parliament, and should be taken into account not only in the narrow political, party interests of one faction, but all the political forces that make up our Ukrainian society and politics today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u128	Vazievsky Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u129	Deputies for Ukraine, faction "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense". I fully share Mr. Oleg Lášk’s concern, who proposed the amendment to article 12, with additional paragraph 12 in line 1, about who should produce the State rewards. Perhaps the State reward would have to have a proper appearance and quality. And so it would be wise to limit the issuance of State awards to government institutions, state enterprises, and not monopolize it only in one institution that has a very specific job in the state, it's the making of banknotes and coins, monetary units of bracelets. So we have in the state and, in particular, the Lviv State Factory, which specializes in state awards, has extremely new technologies, and it would be unfair not to take advantage of this potential of state-owned, I stress, state-owned enterprises in order to be able to offer both cheaper and better products in competitive state conditions for state orders and awards. Therefore, it would be quite logical to vote in the first reading today and in the second reading to make a small supplement: add “and other state-owned enterprises that would be able to offer quality products on competitive terms”. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u130	Gordijenko Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u131	Sergei Gordienko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Of course, it is not surprising that the bill passed by the deputy is very easy, and it needs to be supported. But here are just a few more questions. We need to deal with the rewards at all, and we need to organize these processes. And we see people being rewarded, and it's not transparent, and society and the public can't do that. I would like to draw attention simply to the facts that undermine the authority of our nation. First, in their time, a large number of veterans of the Great War were rewarded with the Order “For Courage”. But the State, after awarding them, was unable to provide them with an order at their own expense. And these veterans were forced to get a pension allowance, buy these orders at their own expense. It's a disgrace to our Ukraine. Next. There is a large chapter on the question of the famous rewards. Today, ministries and offices are rewarded with notable rewards, which are nowhere to be treated, and no one has any influence on them. And these famous rewards are made of gold, platinum, diamonds. We do not understand what rewards are and what their status is. The bill therefore needs to be supported, but note the need for the Supreme Council to return to the rewards and sort out these issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u132	Wheelchair Vadim Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u133	Thank you. The faction of the Party of the Regions, Vadim Kolesnichenko. Respectable colleagues. The issue that we are considering today could of course be of greater importance if it came to the main one — the way in which public awards are awarded and who these awards are awarded. Because when the bill states that manufacturing will enable us to improve our quality, the term does not fit the investment. That's the first one. Second. Excess monopolization and the creation of a single manufacturer lead to everything we talked about before – loss of quality due to lack of competition. But when we touched on this law, I would say the main thing was that indeed my colleagues were right to say that the State Awards Act required a detailed and very careful review for one simple reason. It's not about the quality of the prize, the gold or the diamonds, but it's about who it belongs to and who's entitled to it. For example, the disgraceful fact in the history of Ukraine, when did the Suhjević takeover became the Hero of Ukraine, a citizen who hugged his hands and knees in the blood of Ukrainian citizens, Russian citizens, Polish citizens, Jews, and Jews received the highest prize of Ukraine at the hands of the President of Ukraine, is it not a disqualification of Ukraine's highest prize? Is that not a discreditation of the great feat of the Ukrainian people? That's what we need to talk about. If Oleg Lazko had introduced such a bill, I think he would have been supported, especially if there were projects today to assign the name Hero Ukraine to the same shelter — the bandits or Bandera. If we return to the question and reconsider the issue of Ukrainian State awards, then it will be understandable to the people of Ukraine and to veterans and to all normal people, why, and for what purpose, State awards in Ukraine are given? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u134	For reasons of vote, the representative of the faction who did not participate in the discussion, Oleg Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u135	Thank you very much, Alexander Volodymyrovich. You know, the Lithuanian Block faction is going to vote in favour of this bill. And I want to say the only thing that's obviously the essence of the problem is not even what the colleagues said. In an explanatory note, the author of the legislative initiative notes that the state-created bank-monetary specialities for the production of State awards are not more than a third. And in such a case, the question arises: Why is it that the prizes held are not produced at a state-owned enterprise in order to ensure that the profits of the enterprise go to public execution? I think the question is rhetorical. I think that those enterprises that produce other rewards are enough jobs, because we love to reward ourselves, our friends, then our friends reward their friends, and so forth with nonexistent badges, rewards, pseudo-orders, and so on. Thus, State rewards are to be made at a state enterprise. We're in.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u136	Final word of the author of the Legislature Initiative, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u137	Dear colleagues, we're out of the regulars here. The author declined the closing statement. Well, please! We need to consider, your honor, that there is a reduced procedure, so that we can understand that there is no final word. The draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Prizes has been discussed. A proposal is made to the adoption committee based on the draft law. This proposal is for voting, namely the adoption of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Prizes, registration number 3058. Please vote. [[12:46:33]] For 243 Decision taken. One moment, please! Dear colleagues, here was a proposal to vote on the project as a whole as a law. Does anyone make a warning? [[B in m in s a l in]] Since there is a complement, please read the second one. We'll get ready. We'll be fine. Dear colleagues, we are. Now let me inform you about the proposals and decisions of the Conciliation Council. May I have your attention, please? Dear colleagues, very important information. First. We made a decision and agreed to stop jumping at each other to make any decisions in the Rules. We have to do everything we can to gradually, but inevitably, introduce the work of the Supreme Council into the regulatory area. And that's what I think we're going to do together. The other one. The issue of the implementation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's draft decree on the adoption of a resolution on mistrust by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine was discussed. You know that according to the Constitution, articles 87, the President, or a third of the people’s deputies, may initiate the issue. On January 12, the project was signed by 164 national deputies. In accordance with the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which explains, develops the Constitution, within ten days, the Supreme Council of Ukraine should consider this matter. The rules that detail and write down the procedure for dealing with this issue determine that the committees are to review, formulate questions to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and send them through the Supreme Council apparatus to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Mainly designated Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government. I had a conversation with the chairman of the committee, Alexander Alexandrovich Omelchenko, and asked him to consider the matter immediately at the committee meeting. The second issue is the Economic Policy Committee. With the head of the committee, Alexander Mikolaiovich Tkachenek, there was also an appropriate conversation and an appropriate proposal, a request from the Ukrainian Conciliation Council. But this does not mean that all other committees have no right to formulate their questions. So, please hold committee meetings, committees will form their questions, and through the apparatus, we will send them to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine should provide information within three days, that is, a response to these questions. The Committees to take a decision on this issue on the mistrust of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine are expected to meet again. And then, dear colleagues, you understand that we have a conflict, a time gap. The initiators of the draft decree insist that this issue be considered tomorrow. Dear colleagues, well, I'm asking you to have patience to listen to this question. The Conciliation Board has decided that it is not physically possible to do so even in the near version of the Rules. The following suggestions were then made to decide whether to make changes to the calendar schedule for the session, i.e. to be working next week, but in two dimensions. In two dimensions: the first is committee work so that the committees can complete the consideration of this issue and prepare it for the consideration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and consider this issue in the first plenary week of the plenary session; the second proposal that comes from the faction of the Party of the Regions is that the changes to the calendar work plan of the session have this dimension: plenary work, and the next plenary week on Thursday that the Supreme Council of Ukraine review the draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in accordance with the procedure for mistrust of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. We've done the same. We've come up with these recommendations, more specifically, that most of the Conciliation Board has supported that next plenary week we continue our work, work on committees to complete this consideration, but we're going to look directly at this issue at the beginning of the first plenary week of the next session, which is Thursday. The proposal by the Regional Party to initiate this issue for the Supreme Council of Ukraine to work in plenary next week. So this is the position, your honorary colleagues: they should be initiated by the initiators with appropriate draft regulations. The Committee on Rules and MPs today has meetings to consider. And if there's any such motions, and if there's a committee hearing, tomorrow we'll put them to the vote and we'll take a comprehensive decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And one more thing, I have to bring to your attention, this is also the position of the Conciliation Council, in principle, which confirms that we should abide by the Constitution and the Rules. I want to prove to you that any decision will be taken by the Supreme Council: in plenary mode we work or we work in session mode – but work on committees so that we are all aware that every deputy should be in the session room and personally testify to his will from the issues that we are going to consider. Especially with regard to personnel issues, let's do this: assemble MPs when it is necessary not to simply register with cards, register, do not need to get up, colleagues of honor, please don't violate, please. Please, before making the final decision, they registered in writing, declared, voted, and made the decision to be absolutely responsible. And also, my proposal to MPs, colleagues, faction leaders was that any decision could be made. But obviously, together, we need to think about what the next step is going to be, which is going to be the way out, two or three steps forward. Well, a resolution of mistrust of the Cabinet of Ministers will be adopted, the Cabinet of Ministers will not come to the Supreme Council of Ukraine at all, and will say he is not allowed to work. So I suggested, because in order to form a new office, you have to have a coalition, let's propose a coalition today during the holidays with a package, without a package in order to make any other decisions. Otherwise, we'll lead to absurdity. But the right of 150 deputies is and must be implemented to a logical conclusion. Such decisions are made by the Conciliation Board. We also agreed that each faction manager would be able to express his own point of view for one minute if all of a sudden I was misphrasing those proposals that I had just made. Please, Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u138	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich! I would like to clarify more clearly the position of the Party of the Regions on our further work. I think that we all agree that the situation in the State today is catastrophic. And in this catastrophic situation, it is unacceptable to leave Parliament in a moral sense, nor in terms of government. Therefore, by registering the relevant documents on the Government's report, we have set two tasks. On the one hand, what Vladimir Mihajlovich said on the resignation of the Government, and on the other, we understand very well that today four factions, in fact, support a common view on this issue. Therefore, we would like to vote in the House in favour of these factions in order to show society that there is power in Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u139	Let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u140	That there are forces in Parliament that support the Government and at this difficult time take responsibility to share with the Government. What our colleagues are offering us and Vladimir Mihajlovich has sounded is an exit from specific issues. We suggested that this session consider the responsibility of the Government. We're told, no, we don't want to do that, we don't want to work in plenary, we want to work in districts, and we want to work in committees. You know where the main districts are, many of them in Maldives. Therefore, the Party of the Regions, in order to remove all insinuations on this issue, invites our colleagues to vote next and next week in plenary in Parliament at this session to consider the responsibility of the Government. And we call on our fellow Members of Parliament to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u141	Thank you. Please, Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u142	Dear colleagues! Dear voters! I want to confirm that the Head of the Supreme Council has made an extremely correct report on what we agreed on at the Conciliation Council. I'm talking to colleagues who have just made a proposal that represents the most heated part of the room, yes. I would like to say the following, colleagues, is not to be so provocative in interpreting what was said to the presiding officers at the meeting. The offer of our colleagues from the Party of Regions is pure water politics, because it is perfectly clear that to deepen the crisis even with the hypothetical resignation of the government does not mean that the government has resigned completely. The new government is forming a new coalition. It's been said a dozen times in this room, colleagues, there's a coalition, please. No one's gonna be a second.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u143	Give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u144	So, honourable colleagues, if we don't have it, we'll support it and I said it for a break, we'll support the work, we'll continue the work of the Supreme Council as stated by the Head. In fact, the committee work next week, we'll be able to handle all the procedures, as we agreed yesterday, and we supported it, even though we didn't like yesterday's decision, but we, by procedure, supported it. So let's go once and for all, let's go as determined by our Rules, because we can go so far. And once again, colleagues, there's a coalition, please send the government out of retirement, but don't do it today in a way that no one's going to have to deal with, don't go into a crisis and not just in the country. Thank you. We support, Vladimir Mikhailovich, what you said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u145	Yes, from “Our Ukraine, ” Taras Stackow, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u146	Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear to everyone here that the initiators of the resolution of mistrust are not thinking at all about solving economic problems, putting the Supreme Council's day-to-day agenda on the issue, but about getting political points and there are no illusions. Therefore, we believe that when a resolution of mistrust is introduced, it is also necessary to follow the Rules strictly. So the Supreme Council can consider this question. The meetings of the relevant committees are to be held. The committees should formulate questions, the government should be given three days to prepare answers to these questions, and if you see the session ending on Friday, it would be most logical to consider this issue at the first plenary week of the next session. If necessary, the maximum that we can agree on is to announce next week as work on the committees so that the committees can properly prepare themselves for consideration in the Supreme Council of this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u147	From the Communist faction, Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u148	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear voters, dear colleagues! I emphasize what I was talking about at the faction leaders' meeting, that the Communist faction would support any resolution, once again, any draft decision that would affect the continuation of the session. Alexander Sergiyovich, I stress to you especially, because you are constantly and representatives of your faction every day trying to twist the faction's positions like you counted four, I don't know, it's about as they said yesterday that if the Communist faction had voted last July, the government would have resigned. For those who forget, 174 votes, 172 votes, 172 votes, two votes, "Our Ukraine", 174 plus 27 is 201. There's something wrong with you even arithmetic if you use that argument. [[Applause]] Next. Next. That's why I'm here.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u149	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u150	So I'd like to ask, my dear colleagues, from the Party of Regions, when you speak, tell the truth, learn to do it at last. Next. Vladimir Mikhajlovich, I would like to really emphasize this and I'm bringing this proposal and I'm paying attention to what you said, but I'm putting it more firmly that when we work next plenary week, that the chairman of the session before the vote of each question would make the beast present in the hall and if there are no 226 national deputies in the session room, he would read it and then in the Voice of Ukraine would be published, who is not working at the sessional week and no question was raised in accordance with the Constitution. The Communists in the session room will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u151	Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u152	Oleg Zarubinsky “Block of Lithuania”. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The Lithuanian bloc welcomes its colleagues, representatives of various factions, welcomes the leadership of the Supreme Council with what gradually, perhaps slowly, but gradually and steadily, the Supreme Council is moving into a normal regulatory regime of its work. What happened before, well, let's say by December of the month, that the Supreme Council was working the way it worked, and the epithets here were clearly negative, it was largely based on the fact that the Rules, the procedure was always being violated. If there is a common will today, and we feel that there is a common will in those who identify or identify themselves as opposition and those who are not opposition to us actually working in Parliament, that's just a plus. So we suggest that we accept the suggestions that have been made and that we work calmly.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u153	Alexander Lavrinovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u154	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, honourable colleagues, I would like to say that the absolute achievement of the Ukrainian Parliament can be that if it is absolutely true to our Basic Law, all the laws of Ukraine and does not believe that the Supreme Council can do anything. Since we have the Ukrainian Law “On the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine”, article 14, which states that the Supreme Council of Ukraine is obliged to consider the initiative of the President of Ukraine or 150 national deputies of Ukraine not later than 10 days later. The Supreme Council may change this term, but only by amending the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers. No other decision, even 450 deputies in the session room, can be legal in this case. So when we look at this issue, we need to look at it not only from a political point of view, but this is a purely political question -- the issue of government responsibility for its actions before Parliament. And we have to stick to the rule of law here first. And if you have 12 numbers, this is not the majority of the deputies' right, it's 150 percent of the MPs' right to ask that question. It must be considered within 10 days. And to decide whether the Conciliation Council or the vote in the session room is not within 10 days, but within 20 or 30 days is not the right of deputies. Like other Ukrainian citizens, MPs are bound by Ukrainian laws. I'd like to ask that we don't try to edit them here in the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u155	Dear colleagues, let's make this brief. What? Please, the repulsion of Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u156	Dear colleagues, the faction of the Party of the Regions reiterates its call to our distinguished colleagues from the Communist Party faction, to our distinguished colleagues from the Block of Lithuania, to the constructive part of “Our Ukraine” to support us in our consideration of the matter. [[B in m in s a l in]] In considering the responsibility of the Government and supporting us by voting in favour of extending the work of Parliament for the next week and one week. And then I would ask our colleagues from the distinguished Communist Party to help us count the votes after that vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u157	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we are finalizing our discussion of information. A few moments, dear colleagues. Regarding the proposal highlighted by Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk. We made a deal with you, we don't have to make a deal here, we just obviously have to enforce the Constitution. That's how it's going to be done. And I think you're going to support the presidency here, so that every deputy, especially when it comes to personnel matters, can vote for himself. Please bring them, invite them to the committees where they work, and in the districts to come to the session hall. Four times a week. I'm not talking about those who are constantly present. The other one. You're suggesting. Let's make, I support your full proposal: before making a decision, a written registration, a read-out and a vote on any issue to make the decisions aware. One more moment. We can now reproach every single one of us for breaking the Rules. And that's the right thing to do. But let us agree that we have a negative history, and we do not have a positive future. Let's think about how to get the Supreme Council out of this gap. Because I want to remind my honourable colleagues how many times the Supreme Council has been blocked, the meetings have been postponed, we haven't worked for weeks when we had to look at the emergency laws. Then we were told that we had an agreement on how to divide the country. We couldn't divide the country. So let's do what it is today, the other one isn't, and think about whether we're going to have any developments. If we decide to resign, please. Let's make a decision, but we need to know what the consequences will be. Perhaps all of us should take responsibility for this. And one more moment. I want to stress that we have agreed on tomorrow's draft regulations, we will vote them tomorrow as the committee will consider, and in order for their coming. Dear colleagues, when it comes to 10 days, let's take a look at the Rules. It says 10 days of plenary work. So no violation of the Constitution here, I think, and there will be no laws. What's more, you can have 150 signatures and an extra session. So if there's will and desire, I don't see any problems here. Let's just work and implement those positions that we agreed on at the Conciliation Council. Thank you. The draft Law on Prevention, Diagnostics, and Treatment of Foretold and Breast Cancer has been announced for consideration. The national deputy will be the reporter of Oleg Zarubinsky and the committee of Tetjana Dmitrovna Bachtieva, the head of the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u158	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, distinguished national MPs, that's exactly the question that's very specific, what you've called for and what to do. Breast cancer is one of the most common cancers. According to experts, the real chances of receiving this terrible diagnosis are that 1 in 7 women in Ukraine, and the corresponding phobias are virtually everyone. Ukraine, in view of the consequences of the Chernobyl AES accident, should be one of the first to develop a quality system of protection against this disease. Among the causes of death in women of working age, breast cancer has taken first place today. A new case of breast cancer is diagnosed every 30 minutes in Ukraine, and one woman dies of it every hour. On average, a sick woman loses 17 to 18 years of her life. The problem is that in many cases the final diagnosis is established in the final stages when, unfortunately, treatment is virtually ineffective. Statistics show that 40 percent of the disease is already diagnosed in neglected conditions when it is impossible to treat. At the same time, 95 percent, 50 percent, and only 15 percent at stage 4. Thus, the main task of the public institutions responsible for public health should be not simply to treat but also to strengthen the measures aimed at providing timely and, I stress, early diagnostics, self - diagnosis and prevention, which my bill is aimed at. I reported this bill to a committee meeting, and a concerted decision was made to create a working group on the basis of this committee and to take into account, in addition to my bill, the proposals made by experts, the proposals made by those who are experts in this. And I would ask for a solution.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u159	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u160	Thank you. And I would like the session room to support this decision so that the Health and Maternal Health Committee will do its utmost to obtain 450 votes for the coordinated project that would have been put into the session room. It's not a political problem, it's not a political problem, it's a problem of life, it's a psychological state, you understand what's at least half of the population of Ukraine. And that's the problem with preserving our people's gene pool. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u161	Thank you. Aunt Dmitryvna Bahechev, head of the Health Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u162	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished members of the people! The problem of modern diagnostics, treatment of cancers to date is most relevant to our health. Much of this is because today's diagnostics, treatments and screenings of cancers are very expensive and have financial costs. In this sense, it is not an exception, of course, to the pathology of breast cancer, which has led to all cancer among women in the world in recent years. One million women with breast cancer are registered annually on the globe. Every day in my country, 35 new diseases of breast cancer, and one woman is unfortunately dying from this terrible disease. According to morbidity indicators, this disease has a trend of significant growth. For example, in 2006, the population of 100,000 was 328 per 100 population and in 2007 it was 340 per 100,000 population. Clearly, there are serious problems in our country with early diagnosis of this disease. In 2006, breast cancer was detected in the third and fourth stages in almost 25 per cent of patients and 26 per cent in 2007. That is, a quarter of the patients have almost lost their cure due to early diagnosis of the disease. I would also like to emphasize that the diagnosis of breast cancer worldwide in the second phase is no longer considered an early diagnosis. In our country, there are still insufficient activities to be undertaken in the State.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u163	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u164	Inadequate rehabilitation interventions with this dangerous disease are also in place. Therefore, this law, the bill that our colleague Oleg Zarubinski introduced, is very important. The only calculations that have been made in this law are for 2005 and amount to 20-21 million bracelets. We have considered the bill, as our colleague has already reported, and we really believe that a working group should be set up to finalize the bill both financially and in accordance with the State programme for 2006-2017, which has already been prepared by the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, but is being blocked by the Ministry of Finance. Therefore, distinguished colleagues, we ask that the bill be supported for re-reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u165	Dear colleagues, thank you, Auntie Dmitri. Please ask for a discussion, two in favour, two against, please, the name of the national MPs. Olga Bondarenko, please go to the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u166	Olena Bondarenko, Block faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u167	Oh, I'm sorry, Olena Bondarenko, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u168	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, a respected colleague, breast cancer is one of the types of serious illness that is considered cureable and which, after careful examination and treatment, greatly prolongs the life of a woman. But I would like to stress, in case the diagnostics are done in a timely manner. The vast majority of women who experience this disease learn about it at a time when life is extremely difficult to save. Diagnostics are in dire distress today, especially in rural areas. I want to point out that every woman, wife, mother. My daughter, there is no guarantee of this terrible threat. And I agree with Mr. Zarubinski, who is really talking about the gene pool of Ukraine, on the basis of the great security of the nation. So I strongly support this bill, and I find it extremely timely, and I ask my colleagues to support it. Indeed, diagnostic equipment is highly valuable. But there is no value to human life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u169	Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, faction of "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u170	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense. Of course, I'm going to support the bill, although I think it's very important for us to have oncologic diseases that affect both lung or stomach cancer or skin or pre-still glands, where we lose 90,000 people every year, of which 35 percent are people of working age. Obviously, this bill needs to be considered a little bit more broadly, and not just to apply to the fight against cancer at all, prevention and diagnostics, and the treatment of foretaste, and cancer at all. And it's only going to be one way or another to have breast cancer, because I feel sorry for all the people who are sick. And all of these diseases should be diagnosed. So it's obviously a bill approach, like we're going to go, whether we're going to adopt a bill separately on breast cancer, or whether it's going to be a direct cancer, or a premier gland, or a gynecological woman's disease, which also happens in women in the same place, second place after that. Clearly, therefore, attention should be given to each of these areas and to the struggle. to declare war on cancer and foreboding. That's why I'm here to adopt this bill, but I would like it to be a part of a big bill that's going to be aimed at actually developing prevention of cancer itself. In my family’s experience, I know how dangerous it is to be treated, but I know that we can be saved, including if we use domestic development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u171	Thank you. Jaroslav Mikhailovich Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u172	Dear colleagues! This bill must be supported by both hands. But why did I go to the rostrum? He won't solve anything. The point is, introduced by counterpart Zarubinski and to thank him, the bill gives us with you all a reason here in this session hall to reiterate the need for a legislative level of deep and systematic health reform. The health problem, health protection long ago, has gone from the field to the social policy. This is the approach that profound and systematic health care reform has been given by the bills that have been introduced here in the session hall, but they do not go into our consideration concerning the introduction of the fifth type of social insurance, the general obligation of government social and health insurance. The problem needs to be solved in a complex long ago, we owe it to society. Oleg raised it, Zarubinsky's colleague raised the subject of pain, believe that there are many. You look at our Institute of Szczepotaina, in oncology, little children with what terrible diagnosiss lie with. The very introduction of insurance will enable us, enable the health care system to address the issue of public prices and tariffs within guaranteed minimum health care, the legal status of health care facilities, health care standards, and we do not have them. Participation of natural and legal persons in the cost of medical care, insurance tariffs and premiums, supervision of the activities of insurance companies, and so forth. Dear colleagues! I'm calling on you all in this rostrum, only in close association, in the organic light of issues, we can do something on the legislative level. How many laws can be passed in the name of the law? Whether it's a glass bowl or a pail bucket. We have a global health system, and we haven't even gotten close to it yet. It's Zarubinski's call.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u173	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u174	Oleg Zarubinski needs to be thanked for the bill, because it happened by accident, I was at the committee meeting when he reported his bill and when Professor Prederius supported it because the public came. The public came, the people who are oncologically ill, or the people who are sick, who are grouped around, and they're screaming, they need to do something not only in this area, because the diagnostics we have long since been neglected, we've forgotten what dissipation is. But this was a general obligation in all educational institutions and so forth. And I suggest, I think this bill needs to be supported. Sadly, he will not solve anything without a comprehensive approach to health - care reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u175	Dear colleagues! The draft law has been completed. And what they said is that they're dictated to bellah by the state of medicine and, above all, to the state of health of the people. I'd like to ask the committees, I'm sure the Supreme Council will support, bring in the whole package of laws that are on this point so that we can consider, at the beginning of the next session, the next plenary week, including insurance. Dear colleagues! At the same time, let us take the first reading of this project in order to give some hope to the people who do. I know that the committee's decision is rereading the first reading. But in accordance with the Rules, we make a proposal to accept as a basis. I'd like to support you. On the adoption of the draft Law on Prevention, Diagnostic and Treatment of Foreboding and Breast Cancer. [[Registration number 1297]] Please vote. [[13:24:29]] For 224 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues! You say you didn't make it, I'll put it on the first reading again. But let's understand one thing: it's not an agate, we have time to do it in this way, we talk about general things, and we don't make specific decisions. That's what Sachs said, I know there's politics here. But this is true of our family and loved ones. I am voting for the return to the draft Law registration number 1297. [[13:25:21]] For 256 Decision taken. There is a motion for adoption on the basis of draft law 1297 on prevention, diagnosis and treatment of foretaste and breast cancer, please vote. [[13:25:49]] For 261 Decision taken. The factions, please. The region's 16th, the Timoshenko Yulia Block, 153rd. "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" – 45, Communist faction – 27, "Block of Lithuania" – 20. Decision taken. There's a note by the committee, you can't put it in general. Ladies and gentlemen, let's get to the point where we're dealing with the ratification bill. Taras Chernobyl, microphone, please. Microphone, Taras Blackwall, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u176	Honorable Volodymira Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, today, along with ratification questions, as far as I know, was on the Conciliation Council of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in connection with tragic events as a result of bloody attacks in Mumbai, India. Then the question disappeared somewhere. If it were the will of the hall, it would take literally two minutes. I can tell you both from the authors, and from the committee, such an agreement is, agreed on everything, and that would be very correct if we accepted it. If we put it on after the holidays, it's not gonna be right anymore and it's gonna look like some kind of ridicule. So I ask very much if it can still be voted on in the course of ratification issues. This is 3446.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u177	Dear colleagues, Taras Crnowil has already asked this question and we have had a consultation with Alexander Volodymyrovich on this subject. The motivation that has been given must be supported. The motivation that was, the honourable colleagues, unfortunately, the events took place, this decision is already extremely late, that's the first. The other one. We don't want to get involved in making the right decision about what's going on right now, you know, in the Middle East. But if that is the will of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I will ask this bill to be submitted here to the presidency and we will put it on the table. Dear colleagues, the point is, I want to say that at Conciliation, one minute! On the Conciliation Council, this issue was agreed upon, but when the document began to be considered, it was concluded that since these events were long past days and, secondly, they could now appear and provoke this adoption of permanent bills that would involve the Supreme Council in complex international processes. So we decided not to consider the matter. It was an initiative, let's say so, mine. If you insist, we'll put him on the stand. He was on the schedule of meetings, he was simply removed when we formed. That's why you'll have the will, dear fellows. The draft Law on the Adoption of the Amendment to the Treaty on the Conservation of Bats in Europe is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 0109]] Reporter: Deputy Minister of Environmental Protection Movchan Mikola Mihajlovich, co-rapporteur of the Anatoly Ivanovich Seminoga Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u178	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! The launch of the Treaty on the Conservation of Bats was based on a lack of recognition of the insufficient conservation status of bats in Europe and within their habitats outside European states associated with the degradation of biotypes. The violation of the habitats of these animals and their destruction by the use of pesticides and the awareness that the threat of bats in European and extra - European habitat states is the same for migratory and non - migratory species. The Treaty on the Conservation of Bats in Europe was opened for signature in 1991. Today, the treaty is ratified in thirty European nations. Under this agreement, all types of hand - winged Europe are to be protected. [[only 45 species]] On May 15, 1999, Ukraine acceded to the Treaty on the Conservation of Bats in Europe and became a party to the treaty. At the third session of the treaty council in 2000, the United Kingdom, Brussels, adopted a resolution that changed the name of the agreement and amendments to its text. The amendments are proposed to clarify the last paragraph of the preamble to the agreement, which states that the conclusion of the agreement will greatly contribute to the preservation of the area whose jurisdiction extends to any part. It is suggested that the bat species be clarified. Ukraine, which is a party to this agreement, must determine its position on the relevant amendments. A draft bill aimed at legislative strengthening Ukraine's position on the amendments mentioned above through the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the Adoption of Amendments to the Treaty on the Conservation of Bats in Europe. Please support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u179	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Anatoly Ivanovich Seminoga, head of the Committee on Environmental Policy for the Use and Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster Please. The committee will now express its point of view and we will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u180	Dear Chairman, dear fellow national MPs! This bill, submitted by the President of our State, is urgent. Thank you for understanding. The committee at its meeting considered the bill. The bill is about the following. That Ukraine joined the International Treaty on the Conservation of Bats in 1999. Our working group was working, our working group, our nation, was working in the International Working Group, and there were a few changes to this international agreement. By the way, change in the name of the agreement and all that. The committee has considered and proposes to adopt the bill as a whole. The bill is supported by all ministries: Ministry of Interior, Ministry of Mine Economics, Minfin, Ministry of Nature and so forth. And the Chief Research Authority also supports it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u181	Dear colleagues, if you would take such an offer. If only I'd put it to a vote without discussion. Please two in, two in, two in. Two in, two in. The suggestions differed, but the Rules prevailed. Please sign in. Please sign up. On the board is the name of the National Deputies. Vladimir Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u182	Vladimir Yavorowski. The Party of Regions laughs for nothing. This is a very serious question. And what I'm saying is that I'm convinced that the ratification of this bill, this agreement, will take about 400 votes, no less. If she thinks the Party of Regions isn't going to vote, she doesn't have a moral right. Because a bat is a bird of a shadow government, it loves darkness and darkness. That's why I'm asking you to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u183	Lilia Grigorovitch, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u184	For Ukraine, the "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" faction. Dear friends, no doubt bats must be supported because there are many aircraft in the sky above Europe, and they harm these animals. [[B in m in s a l in]] But bats have received special political markings in the rhetoric of our politicians. Why do you think this bill came about? Because we are incorporated into European society. And that's why all European parliaments have ratified this. We've got this primal savage laugh on the level of a lot of talk shows. Our Prime Minister has had so much fun, and on some talk shows, she's giggling so much and she's asked her people to give you a hint, and tell me what kind of law the President has passed. Likewise, Julia Volodymyrovna mocked Putin together in September in the Kremlin, but no gas was given. I'm saying this before, I say this before, on the night of January 31 to 1, there were broken locks formed by the Drug Control, sealed, and from January 8, the licenses appear to be being printed in spite of the President's suspension of the ruling. This is a big scary topic that every Ukrainian politician today should be talking about, whether he's in opposition or in power, because tomorrow our pensioners, the people in the regions, will be without the drugs available, but we're silent about it. But we talked about bats like an un-officer's widow pissed herself. In view of this, I would like to see Ukrainian politicians teach a lesson. You know, there is, so-called, bonton, a tone of good behavior. We don't know bozos, bums, and bastards. I would very much like us to be Ukrainian deputies, and every question comes from a position.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u185	National MP Gordienko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u186	Sergey Gordienko, faction of the Ukrainian Company. I would like to say the words of the great classic who said, “The people don’t blame.” And the main thing is that this bill has been passed in a very timely manner. I don't think there's anything funny to cry about today. This is a diagnosis of our authority, a diagnosis of the Presidential Administration. Today, when Ukraine freezes in front of Ukraine. There are so many challenges when people lose their jobs, when grief and hopelessness come to every home, the President’s Administration is warm, bees fly, and bats must be protected. I would like to say the following, that we would probably not need to temporarily touch bats today, let them sleep until the warm season of the year, and today we will be busy keeping warm and comfy in every Ukrainian citizen's home. So support the bats, but I urge all of you to have common sense and to support all the laws that relate to the welfare of our people. The natives will sleep peacefully until the spring.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u187	The word Taras Blackwall, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u188	Dear colleagues who are very concerned about bats, calm down, and they will be fine. In 99th year, we joined the Convention, it protected them, nothing special changed. Those names that are clarified, and so on, they're mostly about those that don't live with us. Now, a little bit more concrete. You pointed out that it was urgent, given almost immediately after signing, after connecting. We've had ratifications since '94, especially from social issues, and we don't get a hand in the same Bureau of the President to file them. And here at the moment, the exit is the main question for today. Do you understand how cynical this is? So I'm personally against the text of the law today, and I don't mind it at all, but as a result of the fact that at this point, when it's really not at the time, that's how the alarm goes, I'm not going to press the green button today. And another reason, purely professional: there is no single, very important species of bats there for Ukraine – a “bologno orange vampire”.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u189	Dear colleagues, the draft law has been discussed. There is a committee proposal to support the draft Law on the Ratification of the Amendment to the Agreement. Dear colleagues, I'm just asking you not to return to this document again and again, let's ratify it, because it was really said that bats aren't to blame, because otherwise we're going to keep coming back to that question. That's why I'm asking your attention, dear colleagues! The proposal for approval of the Ukrainian Law on the adoption of an amendment to the Treaty on the Conservation of Bats in Europe is put to the vote. Please vote. Please vote. [[13:39:48]] For-173 The decision is not taken. The factions? Please. Region Party – 1, Timoshenko Yulia Block – 107, "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" – 45, Communist faction – 0, "Litvina Block" – 20. What's wrong with you? So what can I do? The decision is not taken. The draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Slovak Republic on the amendment of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Slovak Republic on social security is being announced for consideration. Registration number 0106. The rapporteur is Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Mr. Herich Olena Vasilovna. Correspondent is the first deputy head of the European Integration Committee Vecerko Volodymyr Mikolajovic. Please. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Let's see if we can at least support the image of Ukraine here in making these decisions. Olena Vasilevna, where? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u190	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! With 21 countries in the world, the Supreme Council has ratified agreements or agreements on the social protection of our fellow countrymen, who, for some reason or another, have made jobs for us but are outside our country. Today, the government of Ukraine has consistently adhered to every letter of these agreements, and we are working with our social partners on this issue. The agreement with the Slovak Republic was ratified by the Supreme Council, and as of January 1, 2002, we began to implement it. And 700 of our compatriots this year will receive a pension made in Ukraine at their place of residence. The Slovak side, respectfully referring to the implementation of this agreement over the course of these six years, has offered to those of our citizens who lived in the Slovak Republic at the time of the ratification and entry into force of this agreement, to pay a pension at the expense of the Slovak side. We support such proposals by the Slovak side today because they enable us to improve the level of pension provision for our fellow countrymen. Many of our compatriots have moved to this republic after the Chernobyl accident, and this will enable them to improve their pension insurance. That part of the pension paid by the Slovak Republic and Ukraine will enable these measures to be implemented. We ask you to support this covenant and its adoption by law. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, this, all the relevant actions the government carried out in 2007. During 2008, we considered the appropriate procedures for this international agreement, and we ask that it be approved today in the form of a law. I.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u191	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u192	We also asked you personally and the members of the Supreme Council to comply with obligations not only international and within ourselves, inside the state, to consider tomorrow at the Supreme Council a bill introduced by the national MP Bondarenko. It's on the schedule tomorrow, but there at the end of the day, it's number 3556, so that we, as in the past, will pay our 14 million pensioners without a single day's payout. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u193	Thank you, Helen Vasilovna, sit down, please. Committee position, First Deputy Head of the Committee on European Politics, Vladimir Mikolaiovich Vecerko. Please, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u194	A number of international social security agreements have been signed by Ukraine today, with respect to citizens' pension rules. The basic principle of these agreements is that States agree among themselves to preserve the pension rights of citizens working in the territories of these States or to move from one State to another. Each treaty sets out the conditions under which this right will be guaranteed. Ladies and gentlemen, your opinion today is on the proposed agreement between Ukraine and the Slovak Republic to amend the agreement between Ukraine and the Slovak Republic on social security. The agreement provides for a simplification of the remittance mechanism between Slovakia and Ukraine. Thus, according to this document, Ukrainians living in the Slovak Republic and Slovaks living in Ukraine will have the opportunity to receive a pension. The Committee on European Integration considered at its meeting on 17 December a draft of the Ukrainian Social Security Act on the ratification of the agreement between Ukraine and the Slovak Republic on the amendment of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Slovak Republic, and approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that it be accepted as a whole, since the ratification of the Agreement would contribute to the improvement of the social security system of the citizens of both States and to the expansion of cooperation between Ukraine and the Slovak Republic in the area of social security. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u195	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikolaiovich. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? Nobody insists? So please prepare for the vote. The draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Slovak Republic amending the Treaty between Ukraine and the Slovak Republic on social security is submitted to the vote. Registration number 0106. Please vote. [[13:46:59]] For three hundred The law's approved. Dear colleagues, we continue our work. morning session for 15 minutes to complete the consideration of the issues set out in the schedule for today. A draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on the Transport of Military Goods and Personnel through Ukraine is under review. Registration number 0089, the reporter is Deputy Foreign Minister Alexander Olegovich Horin. The focal point will be the chairman of the Committee on European Integration, Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u196	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Federal Government on the transport of military cargo and personnel through Ukraine was developed at the request of the German side in connection with the decision of the Bundestag to expand German participation in the international security forces in Afghanistan and the need for the long-term provision of international arms and ammunition and personnel to the contingents of the participating countries. The agreement was developed on the basis of relevant resolutions of the UN Security Council, which have created international forces and continue their mandate, as well as encouraging UN Member States to contribute to the efforts of the international security and security partnership, including the civilian population in Afghanistan. The agreement was signed on July 12, 2006. The German side reported in August 2006 on the implementation of all the domestic procedures necessary for a contract to be valid. This agreement sets out the framework conditions, general procedures and arrangements for the transit of military cargo and personnel by rail, or by air through Ukraine. Its position will be applied to the granting by the competent authorities of Ukraine of appropriate permits for the transit of military cargo and personnel through Ukraine, as well as the necessary support for personnel during transit. Ratification of the agreement will ensure Ukraine’s proper compliance with the commitments contained in the relevant UN Security Council resolutions and other international agreements in Ukraine. The implementation of the treaty will enhance Ukraine’s international authority as an active and consistent participant in international cooperation and will demonstrate our State’s willingness to take effective action to support international efforts to ensure world peace and security. Ratification of this agreement will have no negative financial and economic consequences for Ukraine, but the implementation of this agreement will contribute to the inclusion of additional funds in the Ukrainian State budget as a result of compensation to the Ukrainian side for specific services related to transit transport. Dear people.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u197	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u198	I want to draw your attention to the fact that all other transit countries are on their way to Afghanistan: The Russian Federation, Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan and Turkmenistan have ratified similar agreements, and the first transit transport by rail has already taken place through Belarus. In addition, the MCS spokesman confirmed that rail transit through Russia was granted by the Armed Forces of the FERN. A similar agreement was made by the Russian Federation with France and is preparing to sign the same agreement with Spain. In view of the foregoing, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs requests that the said intergovernmental agreement be ratified.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u199	Thank you. Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk, head of the European Integration Committee. Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u200	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! The European Integration Committee discussed the ratification of the International Agreement at its meeting. on the transport of military cargo and personnel through Ukraine and endorsed the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of this law as a whole. This is about the fact that since 2002, the issue of the transport of military cargo and personnel by the Federal Republic of Germany to Ukraine has been implemented and implemented under the decree of the President of Ukraine, which was issued in 2002. Therefore, your view is suggested by a bill that regulates the issue of such transfers in the legislative order. As the Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs of Ukraine has noted, such agreements have been concluded throughout the route of transport of such goods and personnel: through the Russian Federation, Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan and Turkmenistan, only Ukraine is missing. I want to say that a positive decision on the ratification of this agreement has been taken by the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on National Security and Defence. The positive conclusion is from the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. People's deputies would like to support this law and ratify this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u201	Yes, dear colleagues, please sign in. Two in, two in. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Please show me. Yuri Carmazin, then Taras Cnerwell.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u202	Yuri Karmazin "The Party of Fatherland Defenders" "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense". Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I want to say that it's a good thing that we're making decisions on a reduced procedure, but it's very bad that we can't ask any questions. It's bad enough that, for example, I'd like to ask, and some of the political negatives might be the result of these Agreements, or the execution of them, or the political consequences. I would like to ask, but how are our agreements implemented with other countries? Obviously, we will be informed of how they are done. But I just see that this bill is prepared in accordance with the requirements of the legislative technique and can be adopted. Although I am convinced that during such negotiations and during the signing of such Agreements, Ukraine should use the reason, including such reasons, we are actually going to meet this country, Germany, and I am very pleased that the Russian Federation, Kazakhstan, Turkmenistan, Belarus, has ratified, but this is not an indicator for us, because we have our national interests to stand up and ask questions about improving the visa regime with the German Republic, with Germany, on gas transit, on pricing for gas transit now, that is to say, this is all to be discussed during the discussion of the German Republic and such Agreements. I will certainly vote in favour, I don't see why we can't do that, but I want our foreign policy authorities to keep paying attention to what concerns our citizens today, both today and for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u203	Thank you. Taras Cranville.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u204	Dear colleagues, I will only warn myself before I say something, that I speak only my personal opinion, because, as far as I know, the faction has been determined in the main mass to vote against this treaty under certain political circumstances. I represent the view that was adopted by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, which unanimously supported the approval of this covenant. Dana's treaty is not a treaty that, as many people claim, supports or strengthens NATO or helps NATO specifically. This is a treaty that is much earlier ratified and supported by the State mind of the Russian Federation, which is aimed at a certain chain of anti-terrorist actions, and is, in fact today, not specifically directed to support NATO, but is aimed at supporting the participation of a particular country of Germany, their armed forces in a conflict in Afghanistan, where Germany also has its own sacrifices, of which it is interested, in removing this threat from a number of countries, including Ukraine and Russia, which is the most interested in the first, I think, of all countries in this space, in this chain and in ratifying the treaty. So I think it's her intention to support it. But once again, this is my personal position in this case, not the faction position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u205	Sergey Shevchuk, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u206	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I will also express my position, not the faction's position. I would like to remind my colleagues that when we voted on the important issue of the introduction of Ukrainian troops to Kuwait or Iraq, each of us voted in person and those who did not vote in favour of our military presence in those states did not regret it. Today we are discussing a matter that actually means involving Ukraine before the continuation of the civil conflict in Afghanistan. Let's be realistic, we're talking about allowing in Ukraine foreign states to carry weapons, all kinds of weapons, except weapons of mass destruction, but including weapons of mass destruction, as well as personnel, military personnel. The agreement does not specify the frequency of transfers, perhaps after a day, perhaps after a month, which the number of personnel, while passing the territory of Ukraine, is used by the laws of the FRN, so written in this agreement, not Ukraine. I want to say that the risks of implementing this agreement for Ukraine are far greater than the benefits. The advantages apply only to the Nativity intentions of Ukraine. That's the first one. And the others. What the Federal Republic of Germany promises is to pay something, but not to Ukraine, but to the firm's mediator, and the risks are much higher. This applies to the possibility of accidents, because, remember, the Kazakh phosphorus, which has been turned over, has occurred in West Ukraine, the risks are related to terrorist acts, the risks are related to many other points. So I call upon the people's deputies to make a personal identification of this issue and, frankly, no one in the Ministry has explained to us, but why are such preferences of the FRNs alone during this period. What is Ukraine’s friend today among ancient Europe? No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u207	Vadim Koleschenko faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u208	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I wish to recall the events that have taken place in Afghanistan. Whose fault did the war start there? It's the United States of America's fault. The main organizer is NATO. Today, in this situation, I don't care who signed what treaties. I am interested in our own interests — the interests of our State. When Black Sea fleet ships took part in the protection of their peacekeepers and civilians from Georgia's armed aggression, they shouted and believed that this might affect our problems and could send missiles to us. Today we are getting involved in the conflict in Afghanistan and we do not expect a terrorist attack against Ukraine, because for some reason we believe that someone will protect us. I think this issue presents enormous economic, political and environmental challenges to our State. They are environmentally related to the state of our railways. This is a matter for the Ministry of Transport. We're getting off the train on a regular basis. These are dangerous goods. Economic problems. We have serious problems as a result of the growing conflict between the Russian Federation and Ukraine, which is our main trading partner. Therefore, we will lose our contracts again, including by selling our own goods. And political. Everyone knows the relationship between our people and the State vis-à-vis NATO, and I know that most of the population opposes Ukraine's accession to NATO and or some kind of cooperation that would involve us in this military-political union. For today, it is important for us to have a neutral position, an off-block position and, I believe, we must defend it here in the walls of our Parliament. We must not serve the political context of the immediate interests of individual representatives of our State. Ukraine's interests are paramount. I therefore believe that we must vote against the ratification of this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u209	Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. Serious warnings were made here. With that in mind, please prepare for the vote. I just want to point out that this was a document signed on July 12, 2006. You know who was there at the time. Therefore, honourable colleagues, please prepare for the vote. The draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on the Transport of Military Goods and Personnel through Ukraine is submitted to the vote. Registration number 0089. Please vote. [[14:01:10]] For 226 The law's approved. A draft law on the ratification of the European Convention on the Legal Status of Children Born Out of Wedlock is under consideration. Registration number 0093. The rapporteur is Justice Minister Mikola Vasilovich Onichuk. The focal point will be the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Oleg Grigorovich Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u210	Thank you. Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! Three years later, on January 24, 2006, Ukraine signed the aforementioned European convention because it aims to establish as few differences as possible in the legal status of children born in or outside marriage. I would like to remind you that article 52 of the Constitution of Ukraine foresees and consolidates the equal legal status of children regardless of how they are born in marriage or outside marriage. And the convention that we're talking about right now, which I'm going to report on, it's got an extra purpose, and it deals with issues related to parenting, parenting, parenting, inheritanceing, and so on. I want to note that this convention has been ratified by 21 European countries today, this is a European convention, including our neighbours: Poland, Moldova, the Baltic countries, and there is every reason to believe that the current Ukrainian legislation is fully in line with the rules of the said convention, such as those of the Family Code, we have every reason to ratify the convention and thus join the family of countries that recognize and respect the status of children born out of wedlock. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u211	Thank you. Head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Oleg Grigorovich Belarus. Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u212	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs, the 21st century, Europe, we are part of Europe, and as a society we cannot accept orphans and what some call bastard. The Committee on Foreign Affairs reviewed the draft Law on the Ratification of the European Convention on the Legal Status of Children Born Out of Marriage. And after studying and discussing, he unanimously decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that the bill be ratified. This bill is social, it is humane and humanitarian, it will not require any additional expenses from the State budget of Ukraine. It's supported by both the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority and other committees. Please support the committee's recommendation and ratify this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u213	Dear colleagues, is there no warning that we should put him to the vote? The draft Law on the Ratification of the European Convention on the Legal Status of Children Born Out of Wedlock, No. 0093, is on the vote. Please vote. [[14:05:03]] For 350. The law's approved. Dear colleagues, the draft decree on the development of the National Programme for Technical and Material Refurbishment and Social Development of the State Emergency Rescue Services of the Ministry of Ukraine on emergency and population protection issues against the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster is under review. The rapporteur is Head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl disaster, Valerius Mikhailovich Calchenko. Please. Dear colleagues, we have one more question left, we need to determine, and we'll finish the job.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u214	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! You have been presented with a draft decree on the development of a state-wide programme for technical and material resupply and social development of the state emergency relief services of the Ministry of Ukraine on emergency issues and on the protection of the population against the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. The development of this regulation is caused by the requirement of article 35 of the Ukrainian Emergency Rescue Services Act, which provides that every five years the five-year state-wide technical and material resupply programmes are to be developed and approved. In view of the fact that this ruling was given to me on 21 January 2008 and has been considered and approved by the profile committee on 13 February 2008, I would ask that we make two amendments in this decree: firstly, the Cabinet of Ministers should develop the programme, not until 1 April 2008, but by 1 April 2009, and accordingly the state-wide programme should be developed for the period 2010-2014. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u215	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, if you don't mind, given the two amendments, because this draft of the decree has long been under consideration, please clarify: the Cabinet of Ministers will be developed by April 1, 2009 – and beyond the text. And here for the period from 2010 to 2013. And given the proposals made by the committee, decide to vote for the draft ruling as a whole as a decision. There's no objection. The draft Supreme Council Regulation 1393 is put to the vote for approval of the project as a regulation. Please vote. [[14:08:13]] For 222 The decision is not taken. I am voting for the return to the draft regulation 1393. Please vote. [[14:08:42]] For 226 We're back on the draft ruling. I'm voting on the approval of the draft decree as a whole, registration number 1393. Please vote. [[14:09:07]] For 230 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, our colleague. Can I have your attention, please? Taras Cranvill pointed out that we had a draft decision on the Supreme Council's statement on the tragic events that took place in Mumbai, India. When we were preparing a question, a list of issues for consideration today, we suggested that we remove the issue from what happened a long time ago. But the MP is right, and there was a decision of the Conciliation Council -- it was my fault -- but we have a proposal, your honorary colleague Crnwell: if you look together, you have to make some editorial changes to this project so that we can look at it on Thursday or Friday. We were just discussing this with Alexander Vladimirovich Lavrinovich, and there are some details to be made. Please, it's Taras Blackwall's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u216	Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, the point is that, first of all, the decision is not only about the most tragic event but rather about the condemnation, the condemnation of terrorism, and the fact that Ukraine supports the adoption of a comprehensive United Nations Convention to Combat Terrorism. This is the first moment. The second point is, if the first country to make that statement was the Russian Federation, the State has accepted it, so far, as far as I know from diplomatic sources, there is still a discussion and question in several other parliaments of the world, and this process is not over. This process is still going on, and those statements will go as well. And the third time on rights, we actually agreed with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the authors of the committee and the parliamentary group of Ukraine-India on the deletion of two words from the text: where there are “conventions from the United Nations Organization initiated by India-wide conventions” to preserve freedom of movement for our Ministry of Foreign Affairs, because there are several projects to remove the two words “initiated by India”. The Ministry asked for support and did not object at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u217	Dear colleagues, then perhaps such a request, I see now that we may not vote on this draft decision. Well, then the word should be "hopefully" probably because hope is Russianism will be there. That's right. Let's take into account the refinement that he just mentioned, agreed with the Foreign Ministry, Taras Cranowil, and here's the paperwork. I'm going to put to the vote a draft ruling as a ruling. Oh, no? [[B in m in s a l in]] Just a minute. Sergey Shevchuk, please. Well, let's get to the logical conclusion of this.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u218	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, well, you have the opportunity to see if there are any cards, frankly, even the left side of the hall has already pulled the cards. It would be a shame if such an initiative failed, perhaps tomorrow.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-14-m0.u219	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention, I'll put you to a signal vote, a signal vote. Please vote. Not cards. Well, the difference in voting, the cards are out. Change the vote. Well, let's finish the job by making all the comprehensive decisions. Yeah, they're putting the cards down now. Let's wait a minute. Everything? Can I bet? Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? May I have your attention, signal vote? [[14:13:07]] For 233 Decision taken. So we had a signal vote. I am now voting against those amendments and those that have been agreed with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs, as well as editorial literary rights to vote on the approval of the draft decree, registration number 3446 as a whole. Please vote. [[14:13:46]] For 233 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow we'll continue our plenary work at 10 a.m. schedule for Thursday, January 15. Thanks for the job.
