ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, guests of the Supreme Council! Please prepare for registration. Please turn on the "Council" system. [[10:01:46]] There are 415 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The morning plenary session is open. Today is the birthday of the Ukrainian national deputy Lemza Vladimir Dmitrovic. Let's welcome our colleague. We wish you well. [[Applause]] Information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at plenary meetings on December 22. Six issues of the agenda have been considered: two laws adopted, two bills adopted on the basis, two bills rejected. In accordance with article 25 of the Rules, we have 30 minutes Wednesday for the national deputies of Ukraine. Please include the “Council” system for recording Ukrainian national MPs. Hare Ivan Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u2	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear National Deputies! We need to think about the future, we need to think about the next year, and in the Supreme Council we need to consider as much strategic as possible, not tactical. The point is that we need to ensure the integrity and integrity of the economic system. We have a distorted economy today because one political power is in charge of exports and wants to see the economy as an export economy, and the other political power is in charge of imports and wants to see our economy as the economy where products come from all over the world. But the internal market, the internal producer, is neglected today. Our problem is that we have a large capital that ensures the transformation of the economy into an export-type economy and that ensures the transformation of the economy into an import-type economy, but we don't have a large capital that works today to build an internal market based on our own manufacturer. It has to be understood that any state, any economic system in any state, in any economic system, the internal market itself, the internal producer is the most important, most appropriate, because it is the largest market. Because this is where jobs are created, because this is where the wages are paid. So what we are once, the Supreme Council and the government, is somehow looking at these issues through my fingers, it bothers me. I want to draw your attention to the ideology practiced by the Ukrainian People's Party. This ideology is meant by the word “buy Ukrainian”. But this does not mean that we are first addressing that stage – “buy”. We want to reinvigorate production, we essentially say, “If you want to buy Ukrainian, you have to produce Ukrainian.” And Ukraine has to produce a wide range of products, because today we have whole clean fields where there is no production. We've lost a lot of branches, we haven't upgraded them, all of them. And as a result, we don't have a job, we don't have a perspective. Therefore, “buy Ukrainian” means, first of all, “produce Ukrainian”. And to do that, it takes business to produce quality products. This requires that we create conditions for business to go into areas where there is no production. This requires our business to sell products at reasonable prices rather than to take advantage of the monopoly. On the other hand, we have a requirement for power. The government has to create conditions so that business can do this and the authorities have to ensure social justice for our manufacturers. So the ideologies of the internal market, the ideologies of the support of the national producer, are the threads that will get Ukraine out of the crisis.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u3	Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u4	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Oleg Zarubinsky, Block of Lithuania. Respectable citizens! Dear colleagues! Today and we are witnessing this with you, most of Ukraine's political forces and public opinion agree that the main threat to Ukraine's statehood, Ukraine's stable development is corruption and lack of confidence in the institutions of the state, nobody seems to deny it. The fight against corruption is dedicated to a large part of the bill submitted to the Supreme Council, and this issue is one of the main programming documents, virtually all candidates for the presidency of Ukraine. However, according to open sources, only the authorities of the U.S. State Tax Organization continue to work for 79 persons who are found guilty of corruption by the court. And these are just the court decisions that were made in 2009. In addition, in the media, press investigations have recently intensified regarding corruption in Ukraine’s individual, very serious authorities. But the state is in fact continuing to do nothing in this situation, nor are there adequate service investigations and the release of the guilty, nor are there legal proceedings for the protection of the honour and dignity of public officials who are not being accused of corruption in the media. As far as official sources are concerned, there is no shortage of labor in Ukraine today. Therefore, being in positions of state authority of people with a corrupt past, a criminal corruption past, does not seem logical or antisocial, which ultimately reduces people's trust in authorities. As a result, I think we should demand, as the Supreme Council of Ukraine, full information on how many persons who have been found guilty of corruption by the court continue to work in public authorities and local governments. And secondly, we need to give orders to verify the relevance of these persons in positions of authority and to apply the necessary weights so that corruption and those involved cannot affect the confidence of the population in the authorities of the state. Thank you for your attention. Please consider this a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u5	Alexandrovska Alla Alexandrovna
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u6	Respectable people's deputies, respected radio audiences, TV viewers, those who watch and listen to our broadcast! I would like to draw your attention to the issue of the systematic violation of the rights of citizens by those authorities, those public entities that are in fact recognized to protect those rights. It is the case that the letter to the Ministry of Labour, Social Policy and the Pension Fund on the ground is a standard whereby, when recalculating pensions to retirees or assessing those persons who applied for the first time in 2009, the average salary for 2007 is the basis for the calculation of pensions, which is contrary to the requirements of the pension law. Recalculation of pensions or accrual of pensions should be based on the average salary for the previous year, that is, 2008 in this case. Thousands of people in Harikov have complained to me, thousands of people have already applied to the Pension Fund for a proper pension. The head of the Republic Veterans Organization of Ukraine, member of the Communist faction, Petar Stepanović Cibenko, addressed the Attorney-General's Office accordingly. And what we received: the Attorney-General recognizes that there are violations of the laws, but he does not take any steps to ensure that these violations are resolved, and most importantly, that those responsible are brought to justice. From this rostrum, I now appeal to Prime Minister Timoshenko, the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, and to the Head of the Pension Fund, demanding that pensions be recalculated without delay to those persons who have applied for their first pension this year. Those who have applied to the Pension Funds for the recalculation of the pension should be recalculated as a matter of urgency and should be reimbursed the amounts unlawfully excluded from them. And the last. Many women who are on child-care leave for up to three years are complaining that their right to a child's allowance has been violated, at the minimum wage. In fact, these women receive 130 bracelets, 40 bracelets, but none of them receive the full benefit they are required to receive by law. I request the Cabinet of Ministers to amend its rulings accordingly and to ensure that women receive child-care benefits as required by the laws of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u7	Danilenko Vladimir Andriyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u8	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! Today, the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine is very concerned about the situation that is taking place at one of the main chemical industries of Ukraine's VAT “Sumihimprom”. The open stock company Sumhimprom is a large energy chemical complex, an industrial site of 220,000 hectares. The company is located in the North East of Ukraine, it consists of 11 major companies, 20 auxiliary companies, seven non-industrial units: a food supply unit, a health-care facility, and so on. VAT “Sumihimprom” has the status of a basic chemical industry in Ukraine from the production of phosphorous mineral fertilizers. Hardly any of the people who arrived in 1949 to build a superphosphate factory near the small rural town of Suma in the northeastern Ukraine thought of the fate of the company and its role in the life of the country. During 50 years of life and work, Sumhimprom became one of the most powerful groups of the country's chemical industry and one of the pillars of the Suma region. Suma’s appearance owes much to the “Sumihimprom” team. The history of VAT "Sumihimprom" is 50 years of small daily work. Yes, many of the giants of the domestic industry must have been created and developed, but each of them had its own way. The construction of a mineral fertilizer plant in conditions destroyed and exhausted by the country’s terrible four - year war was not easy, but it is vital. The exhausted earth needed rebirth in order to feed its supporters. But, Your Honor, what do we have now? Because of the failure to pay the salary, the five - year - old group of the company repeatedly went out on the street with protests. The company recently celebrated its 55th anniversary, but in the entire history of this plant, even in the 1990s, there was no such complex situation as there is now. According to the company’s official financial statements, the damage is now 269 million, and the situation has not changed for the better in the last two months. So today, the faction of the Ukrainian company has to support a multi-million-dollar collective of summative chemicals, and I'm going to Prime Minister Timoshenko Yulia Volodymyrovna to find out why the Ministry of Industrial Policy, which owns 100 percent of the company's shares, hasn't taken any action to get the factory out of the crisis. The country doesn't need factories! Why there is still no funding from the Stabilisation and Association Fund for Cabinet Regulation No. 914 of August 12, 2009 on subsidies for the purchase of phosphorus fertilizers from domestic production. However, the company released 12,000 to implement the decree.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u9	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u10	But all the production is now in storage. Thus, 28 million dollars of their own circulation is frozen. Why the company today is not compensated for some 11 million VAT dollars. Today, the company is forced to stop production and lay off workers. That's how it works.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u11	Akimov's Irina Mikhailovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u12	Dear colleagues, how will Ukraine be remembered in 2009? It will be remembered by an unknown increase in corruption. During the two years of Timoshenko's government from 2007 to 2009, the level of corruption in Ukraine on international ratings fell sharply. We moved from 118 to 146. It's Zimbabwe. Where is the highest corruption? It's a state-of-the-art purchasing system where 40 billion bracelets are launched, they're tax authorities, they're internal affairs. And who will be responsible during the fight against corruption in Ukraine for what is happening in the country? I recall that laws 0875, 76 and 77 on combating corruption have been voted on. The goal was excellent: to fight corruption. Unfortunately, the tools have been chosen very unsuccessfully. We had a fight in Ukrainian, we wanted it to be good, it was always good. Corruption will now be the responsibility of the budget sector and small businesses will be responsible for corruption. What did these laws bring? They brought an annulment. It turns out that now a professor, a doctor of science, who will work in two colleges, will be declared a major corruptionist. If Professor Harvard reads a lecture at our Kiev University, he'll be held accountable for corruption. This will certainly bring a great international image to Ukraine. A doctor who works in several clinics because his salary is very low will also be declared a corrupter. This will probably improve life and health for our ordinary Ukrainian citizens. The accountants around the world are working hourly, but under Ukrainian law they are banned from working together. Therefore, all small business and, above all, small business services will be declared corrupt by business. And another interesting fact. The members of the electoral commissions also work together. By enacting these laws, we say that we want the electoral commissions to work at all times. We need permanent elections. This will contribute to Ukrainian political stability. The question is, who will be brought out of this corruption? Representatives of law enforcement agencies will be removed, which will not have to fill out declarations of expenditure. It turns out that, by increasing incentives and a base for corruption, we are setting up budgets and small businesses. Members of parliament, especially the members of the BIT who voted in favour of these laws, let us acknowledge that a mistake has been made. We must return to the law, Mr. Novikov's bill, which proposed that anti-corruption laws be postponed for one year. We need serious work. Let's make a mistake.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u13	Please complete the microphone on the stand.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u14	And a second sentence. Let us correct the error in anti-corruption laws and stop the use of Parliament's rostrum for electoral action. I therefore propose to return to Order 5463 on the modification of the calendar plan and to give Thursday and Friday this week to work on our polling stations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u15	Sushenko Alexander Mikolaiovich. Victor Terrence, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u16	Dear colleagues! Here, in my hands, I have in my hands a draft decree of a sad and under-known MP. Sad because he was in the front row of those who were rolling the coalition. And because we rarely see him in Parliament, there is no legislative initiative. And it only appears when the will of the Bank is to be done. And his draft ruling proposes what the deputy from the “regions” has just said to me, to close the Supreme Council in the barn castle and leave to celebrate the New Year until the presidential elections in the regions. And this is when the country is in a really difficult situation, and above all, the difficult situation is in the Donetsk region. Today the flu rages, the flu rages, the California flu, people die, and the flu, they thought, would not reach Donetsk, but it got there, it might not have reached the stolen Megiry, but it did reach Donetsk. And today, people die in a frozen car, where the local authorities of the Party of Regions. And today, the Party of Regions is supposed to be responsible with their leader Yanukovic for every death, for every death in the Donetsk region, because 600 million dollars were not allocated because the Party of Regions did not vote. And now that the President has signed on, it is virtually impossible to use them. And so once again, I want to say that every death, every death, every death on the conscience of the Party of Regions. This is a one-time thing. And the second. The idea of shutting down the Supreme Council is not a new idea today. Can you please tell me if there are deputies here who are going to the presidents? Tell me, where do we meet Mr. Yanukovich? We only see him on the boards where he wants to hear everyone, but, you know, this kind of ad for hearing aids. But he's talking, and before me was a member of the Party of Regions talking about the need to save a small business. I want to ask: “Why do we have to write about this on boards or parks and not come to the Supreme Council today and vote for, say, the same ready-made tax code of Catherinechuk? Why not introduce your proposals?" Because it's easier to write on fences or on boards than to work in Parliament, because you have to go to work basically. I want to say that President Yatsenuk's candidate went to war with corruption, but he's not voting here for anti-corruption laws. He's fighting there instead of working in Parliament. And so, my dears, you have to work in your place, work in your place, as Julia Timoshenko does today, how the government works today, because it's actually a fact.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u17	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u18	Thank you very much. And the pension is paid. And the last beautiful event was the launch of the Dniprovski GRES, this is the light at the end of the tunnel, and this is the real political, energy independence of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u19	Kirilenko Viacheslav Anatoliyovich will also use the time of National Deputy Stoyk, 6 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u20	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “For Ukraine!” Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! In the country, there is a slow electoral campaign, but it is different that candidates popular in the East can freely promote their views and positions in the West; candidates popular in the West can now freely, without hindrance, promote their position in the East, and this speaks of a high degree of political freedom in the country. I think that's the situation for all those who are set up for democratic Ukraine. At times, however, decisions and attempts are made to destabilize the situation, either in the country as a whole or in separate regions. The group “For Ukraine! ” was deeply concerned about the decision made yesterday by the Zacarpathian District Council when an anthem was approved, which is the anthem of subcarpathian political Russia. We tell you that 46 of the 90 Zacarpathians voted in favour of this decision, i.e. only with one vote. This was voted by the members of the Party of the Regions, the “One Center” party, which belongs to the Hungarian national minority. Everyone else either abstained from voting or caught their cards. We were also surprised that now that the economic crisis, when it was necessary to fight the flu, when the masses of other mature socio-economic issues, the Zacarpathian District Council deputies found nothing better than to promote political Russianism, without any warning, without discussing the agenda in the middle room. This decision about the anthem of the undercarpathian Russians, which is now the anthem of the whole Carpathians, was made in the hall and voted. We believe that this issue should now be addressed by those bodies and structures that should follow the order and observance of legislation in the country, because it is not the first time that we have seen how, for the direct promotion of the Carpathian authorities, the subcarpathian political Russians receive both funding and political support, and have the opportunity to adopt their decisions in the Zacarpathian District Council Hall. We believe that such actions do not contribute to the unity of the country and should be duly appreciated by the President of Ukraine as the guarantor of the Constitution, the leadership of the government and the Ukrainian Security Service, because the facts we are concerned about are well known. The “For Ukraine!” group has been addressing these facts for more than a year, but we see that the process of promoting political Russianism in Zakarpat continues. To pretend that there are people in Zakarpat, who are not representatives of the only Ukrainian people and other national minorities, but some political nations who have the task of fighting Ukraine, means that this is how we work and those who inspire this issue to destabilize the political situation in the country in general. That's the first one. The other one. The group “For Ukraine!” is concerned that it is those bills that contribute to the settlement of national and cultural issues that are not put into the agenda. Above all, this applies to the following laws: the Act on Promoting a National Cinematographer, the Law on Promoting Culture in the Village, and the Act on National Cultural Product under number 4298. Dear colleagues and distinguished Alexander Volodymyrovich, since you are now in charge of the session. I introduced the National Cultural Product Act, which is aimed at protecting Ukrainian national culture and the culture of national minorities, as early as April of this year. So it's been eight months. During this time, unfortunately, for some reason, there is no conclusion of the Scientific and Expert Office, and in this regard, the Committee cannot take a positive look at this issue. But at the same time, the 30 regulatory days that it takes for the bill to be incorporated into the agenda are long overdue, so I would ask you, taking into account the importance of this bill for national culture, to put this project in place today or this week for inclusion in the agenda and decision-making. I'll remind you again: his number 4298. This is a bill that promotes national cinematography, theatre art, gastro business, music production and other sectors of national culture, which are perceived not only as humanitarian but also as locomotives of economic development, because this bill - on national cultural product - provides economic preferences for producers of national cultural products, economic benefits, as well as other norms that meet the needs of our national producers on this site. It's based on European and international experience, on that national culture support scheme already demonstrated in France and Canada, and it predicts that it's our cultural actors, our producers of music, theatre productions and all the cultural products that are most favored by the Ukrainian state. Of course, all rights of national minorities are guaranteed, including financial ones. So I'd like to ask again these and other bills that relate to humanitarian and other issues, including the issue of combating corruption, a bill that was tabled by the MP Moses a month ago, to put into the agenda and focus on the issues that come after their adoption of systemic changes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u21	School of Andriy Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u22	Honorable National Deputies, Honorable Chairman, Honorable Radio and Television! I'd like to stress first what happened yesterday. Yesterday a law was passed, an unadopted law that would make it impossible to fight corruption from January 1st of the future, this year that is coming, 2010. I believe that the speeches from this rostrum that have been made by the representatives of the Party of Regions who, on the one hand, claim that there is no corruption in Ukraine, I understand that because they did not vote in favour. supported the repeal of this anti-corruption law; on the other hand, it was a powerful, violent criticism of the anti-corruption law, for which the Party of the Regions voted in full. I want to emphasize that. So consistency is, of course, very important to politicians, not to all political forces, but unfortunately, it is inherent. But we need to learn to be consistent. Because if there is a vote of law in the Supreme Council, in fact, the very institution of the Supreme Council is built in such a way that each bill has several stages of discussion: first reading, second reading, and so on. When the law was always good, when it was more than six months before it was introduced, it was provided by legislation to allow time for the drafting of legislation and amendments. And as soon as the latest sociological data was collected, the instigators of nonadmission or the suspension of the anticorruption law immediately appeared. I don't understand why it all happened so clearly in the session room yesterday. But it was clear that this was an illustration of how the chances of winning the political power that so flamingly defended the bill and later voted in favour of the law were assessed. Later, she acted with a low profile, as it turns out, of criticism. What was criticized? There have been a few criticisms and I think, in principle, that they should be critically evaluated, and I think that the higher legislative body is constantly acting to make amendments there. I call on the session room to make these amendments because there can't be perfect laws, but there has to be a Supreme Council that's constantly improving the legislation that's adopted, but once again, there's not going to be any small legislative flaws in its implementation. So I think yesterday was the right step and the next right step would be to amend quality and full legislation. And I would like to remind my opposition colleagues that you should think when you vote and not later put your head to ashes, realizing that there is no time left to win, and in principle it has become vain.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u23	Verni Dubov Ivan Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u24	Respectable Ukrainian People's Deputies! I'm here to inform you that Saltykov-Schedrin, with his story of the man who cooked in a nasty soup, fed two generals, is ashamed. “Eka nevidal”, decided the Rector of Ternopol Gosmedudun University and handed the professor's robe to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Yulia Timoshenko, for patenting her as another invention, know-how, by supplicating her feces in the absence of that material in the country, which officially sounds like activities related to the development of national medicine. Well, as they say, vivat, academie, vivat, professor! And now you're being treated by a new medical doctor. Yes, heroic efforts to unload drugs at the airport should somehow be encouraged. But why push a state liner with a huge security guard, writing to the brothers, and other things like that, at the expense of a professor's beret in Ternopol, when the Cabinet of Ministers doesn't even give money to the electoral campaign. Who am I to protect you from, tell me, you just said business? From the crystals that ate the whole business and the entire budget? The rapid identification and timely transmission of the results of the elections of the President of Ukraine should be made through a single electoral information and analysis system established by the Central Electoral Commission on 17 January. By its decision, CEC approved the requirements for the software complex “The One Electoral Information and Analysis System” in the District Electoral Commission on Presidential Elections. In accordance with these requirements, the “Election” system should be certified, certified by the State Special Communications and Information Protection Service until 11 January 2010. [[State Affairs, President Chebotarenko]] According to information available to date, the implementation of the project has not been funded, as the electoral campaign has been funded only by less than 1 per cent. Thus, there is a threat to the legitimate functioning of the speedy establishment and timely delivery of the results of the presidential elections. In response to Viktor Yanukovic's proposal to hold an honest election, Yulia Timoshenko's headquarters, concerned about the drop in its rating and having practically agreed to the defeat, has developed scenarios and is in fact carrying out actions aimed at declaring the elections invalid. In their statements from this rostrum, in their briefings, the law enforcement authorities provide examples of a full set of dirty polytechnologies for the discrediting of Yanuković, when specific people are fraudulently forcing citizens to open accounts in the bank of Cyprus, through the administration, they are preparing misinformation in the South-East for a single voter register so that as many voters as possible are unable to exercise their electoral rights. In his article “The Right of Choice under Reliable Protection”, he assured society that the Public Prosecutor's Office had gained sufficient experience to respond adequately to such violations of electoral law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u25	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u26	He recalled that the Penal Code provided for a rather severe punishment for the offence and that the law enforcement authorities were armed with a credible arsenal against those who violated the electoral rights of citizens. I appeal to all voters in Ukraine, dear compatriots, check your electoral lists, and let us ensure fair and reliable results of the elections. Everyone to the election! And let the mighty one win!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u27	Presentations by the Ukrainian National Deputies have been completed. Dear colleagues! From the suggestions made during the speeches of the Ukrainian national deputies regarding our work today. Váchaslav Anatoliovich Kirilenko, are you suggesting that we include question 4298 in the next plenary week, since neither the profile committee nor the faction offered it on the Conciliation Board until inclusion? Please, the microphone of Deputy Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u28	The next plenary week will not be until the following year, but according to the Rules, if 30 days from the time of introduction, as the subject of the legislative initiative, I can apply to the session with a proposal to include in the order of day 4298.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u29	When do you want to go?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u30	This week.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u31	This week. What do you mean tomorrow?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u32	It's fine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u33	The proposal by the national deputy Kirilenko Viacheslav Anatoliyovich to include the number 4298 in the session for the fourth draft law on the national cultural product is put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:38:41]] For 245 Decision taken. It's on the schedule for Thursday. Proposals by the national deputy of Akim's Irina Mikhailovna Today, back to the previously unsupported issue of amending some of Ukraine's anti-corruption laws. [[Registration number 5398]] I'm betting on the vote to go back to the previously unsupported question. [[10:39:27]] For 223 The decision is not taken. A second proposal made by national deputy Akimova Irina Mikhailna [[B in m in s a l in]] You didn't hear? I'm sorry, if you haven't heard, I'll do it again, based on the motives we'll have when we get back to the question, then the motives of the discussion. Dear colleagues, if you don't understand, I'll say it again. I repeat, listen carefully. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please don't make any noise in the hall. I'm using a soundproofing technique. Please listen carefully. The proposals were made to the people’s deputies, Kirilenko Viacheslav Anatoliyovich, you voted. Two proposals were made by the national deputy Akimova Irina Mikhailna. [[B in m in s a l in]] Akimov Irina Mikhailna, so that we may return today to the previously unsupported question that was discussed yesterday. This is a draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine (for anti-corruption and anti-corruption) (registration number 5398). Do you feel it now? [[B in m in s a l in]] Please log in from the procedure. National MP Gordienko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u34	I ask you to give the floor to your colleague Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u35	Thank you. Martinuk is a faction of Communists. Dear colleagues! Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! Either there's an enormous amount of excitement in the session room, or there's a planet coming at us, but it's completely unclear what we're voting for and what we're voting for. First of all, your equipment works very badly, you ask whether the microphone should be placed closer to you, or some other reason, because you can't hear what you're offering. That's one thing. The other one. I'd like to make proposals not only by numbers, because no matter how smart we are, we can't remember the bill numbers. Please call the bill number and what it's about is a name. Because we voted the first decision, it turns out, we voted for something we shouldn't have voted for. So let's go back to voting on all the proposals, because it was voted, I repeat, not consciously, because we didn't hear what it was about. We were ready for a completely different vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u36	Dear colleagues! I understand that if the MPs listen carefully in the hall rather than talk, they hear what they are talking about. I clearly called the proposal, the number, the name of the law, the author of the legislative initiative. Adam Ivanovich, if you haven't heard that Kirilenko Viacheslav Anatolyevich proposed a draft National Cultural Product Act, I can't help you with that. [[Registration number 4298]] If you haven't heard from me, I'd like to ask: do you understand that I've announced the hall? [[B in m in s a l in]] Do you feel it? Please, Paul’s Andrew Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u37	Please give the floor to Deputy Sass. Sasu's word.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u38	Thank you. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, the nums have already seen many things in this session hall, well that's the next page you've opened today. A decision was made yesterday on the bill. The bill is rejected. On what basis are you voting again today, I don't know. According to the Rules to which you keep referring, it can only be considered at the next session. So let us not go on violating anything that can be disturbed and showing some incomprehensible examples. Yesterday we started and didn't finish the question of creating a commission of inquiry at the offer of a jury. What are we doing now? Let's finish this question, and then we'll move on to the day-to-day issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u39	I'm in charge of the People's Deputies. What I do is I head the sessions, and I remind you that we have dozens of issues being considered in the session hall under the heading, which was specially attended every plenary week, - "Back to previously unsupported issues." If you've forgotten that, I remind you. National Deputy Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u40	Yuri Karmazin Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Your Honor Alexander Volodymyrovich! I ask you to put to the vote and I appeal to the entire country that 17 numbers coincide with the term of office of the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine, Mr. Stelmahm. There are no 17 numbers of such a legitimate person. Instead, I now see an explanation in the press that the president says he will perform his duties. On what basis? There is a law on execution, temporary performance, I have written it, I have defended it in the Constitutional Court, there is a decision of the Constitutional Court on this matter. There is no day, no one is in office when the deadlines are over. This time. The other one. I would ask you to put this up and vote. The Law on Deputies Commissions was supposed to be the first one yesterday, and we took the decision of the Supreme Council. Instead, he did not show up yesterday or today. And there are new decisions to be made regarding the creation of the commission of inquiry.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u41	Efraemov Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u42	Thank you, Alexander Vladimirovich. Alexander Vladimirovich, I'd like you to listen to what the MPs say in the hall. Indeed, when you asked the question after the debates of the MPs, there was so much noise in the room that no one understood what he was voting for. I would therefore like to ask you convincingly to put the question to the vote and the first question that we have voted on and to return to the vote on the order of the day that you have. But convincingly, you can't vote for what you don't hear in the hall. So I'd like to ask the MPs, let's still respect each other and be more self-sufficient in the room, on the one hand. On the other hand, more clearly put questions to the vote so as not to make mistakes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u43	The conversation is over. As far as I'm concerned, I think it's clearer than the name of the project, the number of the law and the author of the legislative initiative can no longer be done. Please listen to the vote and do not speak at the time of the announcement, then everything will be heard. And I'm asking you to make it louder. You don't have to. Hear? Please come back to all the votes due to what we have not heard in the polls so that we can go back to all the decisions that have been made today. Please identify yourself. [[10:47:53]] For 223 The decision is not supported. Dear colleagues, I now put to the vote those proposals that we have previously considered. Irina Mikhailnova's proposal to change the calendar of the session. [[Registration number 5463]] Hear? I'll bet you a vote, please. [[10:48:38]] For 232 Decision taken. There's more, according to the factions, a minute, let's see. Region Party – 171, "Club of Timoshenko" – 1, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" – 10, communists – 27, "Club of Lithuania" – 19, non-factional – 4. If you have any further questions about the procedure, please write it down from the procedure. Procedure entry. Bullying Gennady Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u44	In some way, I'm sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u45	Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u46	Dear colleagues! Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. I'd like to ask anyway. You know, when we vote in group for return or non-refoulement to some kind of bill, that's how it works. I was speaking yesterday, and today I'm saying that what we didn't adopt yesterday is a law 5398 that eliminates the effect of inadequacy bills on corruption, is that the victims of these inadequacy laws will not be high-ranking, not clerks, not deputies, but simple people, first and foremost, representatives of small businesses. The second category is science-pedagogical and scientific workers who work together to create anti-corruption protocols for them. Representatives of the medical field, that sort of thing. I would still like us to be, well, more predictable in terms of what we need to predict, what could be the negative consequences, including our decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u47	People's deputy Semerak.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u48	Please give Sasu a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u49	Alexander Volodymyrovich, listen, please. Alexander Volodymyrovich, I would like to remind you that the calendar plan of the Supreme Council is approved by the Supreme Council's decree, and to make changes, changes to the ruling must also be made by the Supreme Council's decree. The issue of the calendar plan relates to the subject matter under the ruling of the Supreme Council of the Rules Committee. The Committee has not considered, there is no draft regulation modifying the calendar plan. So today you have no reason to put to the vote the question of changing the calendar of the session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Once again, I will give you a 29 - article comment on the violation of the rules of procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u50	Fellow dignitaries, the Supreme Council of Ukraine approved a draft decree amending the calendar plan for the fifth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call. Decision taken, decision approved. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u51	Yuri Karmazin, “Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense”, Party of Protectors of the Motherland. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, I asked that Bill 5401 on the release of Stelmach be put to the vote in connection with the conclusion of the term. One. The other one. You and I have an urgent decision to make right now, and I'd like to ask the secretariat to give appropriate instructions on what all bills require anti-corruption expertise. We are bound by article 13 of the Law, which now wants to suspend. And the third. The President vetoed the very important Act on Laws and Normative Acts. We need to get it into the hall immediately, and we're looking at overcoming this veto, because without that law, there's going to be a complete vachanal in the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u52	Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u53	Dear Alexander Vladimirović, distinguished colleagues, let us calm down a little bit and return to that law without adopting any law that we can really stop all small business and small business. I am talking about Law 5398, which delays the introduction of three anti-corruption laws in time. I would like to reiterate Law 5398, return to Law 5398, Novikova Act, put it on the agenda, vote it and put it into effect, yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u54	Sushenko Alexander Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u55	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, well, I don't think you're putting a very good page into the work of our Parliament. We've made so many mistakes. It is quite clear that the issue of changing the calendar of plenary meetings is within the competence of the regulatory committee. The Regulatory Committee has not considered this question. Thus we propose and demand to act exclusively in the legal field that our Parliament has worked on. Please take into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u56	Sebravsky Paul Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u57	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, in fact, today the hall is very excited and does not perceive well enough. Alexander Volodymyrovich, the fact that you put together a joint vote on both the national product and the fight against corruption of the law, is not right, because there is a desire to vote for that part and not for that part. That's why I would ask for a separate bill to be put to the vote on the continuation of the Corruption, Postponing, Postponing, Procedural, for, say, three months. I think there'll be voices in this room. And we actually have to realize that we have to raise people who want to work, and we forbid them to work, I'm sorry, 2-3 jobs. If a person wants to work, it's only congratulations. And on the contrary, this is a man who is actually a hero of Ukraine, and I would like to put this law to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u58	Communication is over, dear colleagues. With regard to the proposals of the People's Deputy Carmazin, we have not yet seen the law on legal acts, not even the text with the President's comments, so talking about consideration is now impossible. As for the proposals that apply to the head of the National Bank, we have the 85th article of the Constitution, and we can only consider this at the suggestion of the President of Ukraine. With regard to voting without consideration on the committee, we have the authority of the Supreme Council to decide whether or not there is a committee decision. With regard to the vote to return to all matters, what Paul Ivanovich Zebrovsky said, I asked the question solely because a huge number of deputies claimed that they had not heard the vote at all. So, of course, I'm paying attention right now, please! – I am voting on the proposal of the Zarubinsky, Chechtov, Zebrovski people's deputies to return to the vote on a bill to amend some of the Ukrainian laws on preventing and combating corruption. [[Registration number 5398]] I'd like to make a statement. [[10:57:33]] For 230 Decision taken. We're back. I am proposing a review of the previously unsupported issue of the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's anti-corruption laws. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:58:08]] For 227 Decision taken. Let us return to the consideration of the matter. We're going to finish the first review of what we had yesterday: consideration of the interim commission of inquiry -- and then we're going to consider the question of Bill 5398. And there's a final proposal that has been made: regarding the return separately also to the decision on Bill 4298: on the national cultural product. A motion for a return to the question is put to the vote. Please vote. [[10:58:58]] For-195 The decision is not taken. This question is over. Dear colleagues, a statement has been made. “In accordance with article 27, paragraph 15, of the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we request a recess in the plenary session to be announced.” Break or break? An application? Who will speak? Please, National Deputy Ariev.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u59	Honorary colleagues, the Yulia Timoshenko faction and Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense require a review of the draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the establishment of a Temporary Investigation Commission in the Supreme Council of Ukraine to study the situation of the illegal possession of Viktor Yanukovič of the government residence of “Megigiray”. We have every reason to believe that the State residence of “Mejriya” has been privatised illegally, with gross violations of the law. In addition, the modernization of the illegally owned “Mježijar” Janukovic was actually carried out at the expense of the budget, i.e. he was actually robbing the state to meet his own needs. Factions of BUT and NNU-NS more than a month ago initiated the creation of TSK and registered the corresponding draft decision. On December 22, all the terms stipulated by law came out in order for such a commission to take action. The head of the Parliamentary Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Rules, the representative of the Party of the Regions, in accordance with the current legislation and regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, was obliged to consider the draft decree on the establishment of the TSC at the committee meeting and to draw appropriate conclusions. But the committee had never considered the matter. Thus, the Party of Regions is doing everything to stop the discovery of the largest crime in Ukraine -- the theft by Viktor Yanukovic of the State residence of the Intergrey area of 140 hectares. We want to remind our colleagues in the Party of Regions that the Ukrainian Parliament is not a meeting of authorities where the most powerful argument is strength and circle message. The BUT and NU-NS factions are initiating the creation of TSKs not for the purpose of accusing or finding compromising materials, the creation of TSKs under the “Mejgorje” initiative to definitively determine on what grounds a state residence has been privatised. And if this was done illegally, someone should be responsible. The representatives of the Party of the Regions should be interested in creating themselves. They are interested in creating such a commission, but they are violently opposed and panicking about the creation of the TSC. Such conduct gives us every reason to believe that Viktor Janukovich illegally acquired state land and property. Viktor Janukovitch speaks cynically and boldly of the code of honor and urges everyone to support his initiative. At the same time, representatives of the Party of the Regions openly act on the Ukrainian Parliament, on the laws, on the Ukrainian people and on our state. For Mr Janukovič, the honor is robbery and the clear observance of the laws of the criminal world. We will never share the principles of the codes practiced by Yanukovic and his faithful servants, and the people of Ukraine will never live by such laws. We demand the immediate establishment of the Temporary Commission of Inquiry for “Majrje”.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u60	Please tell the chairman of the regulatory committee what the situation is, what the situation is.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u61	Respectable colleagues. I would like to be clear on this. I understand there's nothing to say about the real things that are in the state because they're all broken up. So they invented some kind of scarecrow and they've been trying to scare the people of Ukraine for a month. In fact, the situation is very simple, it is the representatives of the BUIT that are disrupting the last two meetings of the regulatory committee. The Committee cannot therefore consider any matter and submit it to the Chamber. This results in a double standard. On the one hand, they did not attend the meeting of the regulatory committee and said that the regulatory committee could not take a decision. Dear colleagues, come to the regulatory committee, and we will consider the issues that you consider necessary to put on the agenda and the relevant decisions will be taken. It is wrong to give unbiased information in the hall, the more public it is wrong, it is not the way politicians should go.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u62	Dear colleagues, that's enough. Report out. The explanations are made. Dear colleagues, please don't make any noise. We're going back to the question. Let us return to the consideration of issues that have not yet been considered. I announce a statement on the draft decree establishing a temporary investigation commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of circumstances and reasons for ineffective management of state property in the agro-industry complex, registration number 4773. Please sign up for the performance. Please, Bodnar Olga Borisovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u63	Olga Bodnar, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Please give the floor to colleague Sas Sergio Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u64	Thank you. Dear Lord Chairman! I wanted to comment on what was just said by the chairman of the regulatory committee on blocking our faction of committee meetings. I would like to say that the agenda formed by the head has never included a draft Order on the creation of a commission of inquiry on "Migree". So now you have to put this question to the vote of the session. For 30 days, the committee had not considered the matter. That's the first one. And the next. Two factions have made a proposal for a systematic violation of the Rules to remove you from the meeting in accordance with the 29th article. This means that after you have made such a request, you should stop presiding at a meeting of the Supreme Council. Please comply with article 29 of the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u65	Dear colleagues! We briefly interrupt the discussion on the establishment of a temporary special commission. I declare: the factions of Yulia Timoshenko and Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense in the Supreme Council of the Sixth Call, in accordance with part two, third and fourth of article 29 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in connection with the gross violation by the chairman of the Rules, requires that the vote be taken to remove Lavrinovich from the plenary for two days. I'll put this motion to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[B in m in s a l in]] I don't have anyone to tell. [[11:07:27]] For 118 The decision is not taken. We're continuing our work. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich is next in the discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u66	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! The question that we're considering is the creation of another commission of inquiry, of course, and we need to create a commission, but on what legal basis is it going to work? You and I have decided that yesterday we will consider the first question, the Law on Deputies and Investigators, and the Special Commission. We don't respect ourselves how you want someone to respect you or this commission of inquiry on which the legal basis they will work if we don't consider it. So obviously we have to run an old base, which is that we don't have a rule book. If we don't have a rule, if we don't have a law, we're creating a commission now. Then let us be guided by the already established practice. The established practice says that the committee can't be composed of a committee head, it's listed here, Mr. Jury Mikola Volodymyrovich, with all due respect for you, but it's written down, you have to be changed once. I'm showing Bill 4773, and there's no comment on that. Second, the name of the commission must be re-referenced to our established practice. This has to be a question of investigating what, circumstances, causing damage to the state of Ukraine in the areas of the APC, and we have to determine in which, alcohol, fish industry, scientific and so on, where the derby went round. Next. We have to define the period of activity that covers and should be checked by the commission of inquiry, it should be time, starting with the period of independence of Ukraine. We should also include a special commission on privatization of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We also have to involve this commission of officials, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Tax Administration, the KLA and so on, and write it down here. And what we need to do is work closely with the Supreme Council, the National Court of Auditors, which has repeatedly examined and asked similar questions. Among other things, when we consider such questions, we need to have clearly all the names that are from these factions, and we have a clear understanding of the quota. It's obvious that in a sense, when we have two commissions here confused by the name, by the question of investigation and by the question of why government property is ineffective, there is an answer. So right now, when we're in difficulty, we're saying that property management is ineffective. How can we do that when the President says it's effective? So obviously the other part has to be removed. You got me. The other part.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u67	Smudge Grigory Evdzimovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u68	Dear National Deputies! Dear citizens of Ukraine! Yesterday we began to consider a very, very important commission, in my opinion, which should not only be a temporary commission of inquiry. I think it should actually be until we put order in the agri-industrial complex. Notice, please, what happened in the last five years of authority, the orange authorities, what happened? Reformation. Or has something improved in the agro-industrial complex? If one of you gives me an example, I'll be very surprised. The only thing that's been done in this time period is to increase the Ministry's agro-industrial policy apparatus. 12 deputy ministers! There was no system law that would, in principle, address the issue of reforming the agribusiness complex. What do we have today? We have a harmful or inefficient, or almost destroyed system in such areas as sugar, alcohol, processing and other areas of the agro-industrial complex. Although a third of the population lives and works in this sector. Although a third of the population provides a basic article on the income of today’s budget. So why aren't we running, and why isn't the Ministry of Agro-industrial Policy offering the Supreme Council systemic reform of this complex? One reason is whether it's skill or desire or other problems. So I'm counting on the committee's proposal to lead the jury, Mikola Volodymyrovich, this committee is up to date. Although she may or may publish, she gives reason to say that the commission is wide, very inconclusive, and so forth. I'm counting on her to be. And thank God that there are MPs who have agreed to work on this committee, and I hope that this commission will work out those documents and those recommendations for the Supreme Council that will be the basis for, in fact, reforming our complex. Some numbers. You know that Ukraine in the southern part of our country had over 3 million acres [3 million ha] of soil that was irrigated. Today's almost complete irrigation system is not working, it's a scary, huge billion-dollar cost that has been invested in the agro-industrial complex in time, and it's almost destroyed. What's the reason? What have been the consequences of such great damage? This commission, including attention, needs to be paid to it. Take another direction: the Academy of Agricultural Sciences of Ukraine. In my opinion, the Academy, having such large areas of better fertile land in Ukraine, should provide progressive lands today so to say ways, progressive materials, progressive seeds and so on, in order for our agro-industrial complex to actually function and use better and more productive land more effectively in relation to other countries. Because we have the advantage of both climate and land to say so. No use, no intervention on the part of the Supreme Council, no attention to the agro-industrial complex, I'm counting on Ukraine to lose a lot of money and unfortunately it's losing today. So I'd like the National Deputies to reject all emotions, that's not the question of what someone specifically says to someone, we're talking about a systematic analysis that a group of MPs, along with the Ministry of the APC, with other ministries, should carry out an analysis and report to us, and it would be useful for us to pay attention to this complex. And one last question. In my opinion, all of this is happening, or the unwillingness of some of the national deputies to vote for this commission, but it only indicates that yesterday we discussed the issue of eliminating the process of privatization of agro-industrial land, agrarian land. I think the reluctance to vote is one of the elements that some of the national MPs would like the land to be sold tomorrow. The economic situation in which our state is now in crisis cannot be done, but it must be systematically reformed. Because the inefficient use of the earth is causing damage to our entire economic space. I ask all the MPs to be directly involved in this commission, to give their views of the reforms in question, and to give the commission the opportunity to work, and this will be only for the benefit of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u69	Hare Ivan Alexanderovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u70	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. I read the draft decree very carefully. And I have great doubt that this commission will be effective. I have the impression that the committee is beginning to give up its direct powers and want to replace the work of the committee with commissions. It's not just for this committee, it's actually in the Supreme Council that we have this trend right now. Let's increase the commission of inquiry, there's no legal basis for the commission's activities, but it's a tool of pressure on its political opponents, pull. And no result. Last week, we were looking at a lot of reports from special investigators. And what did we get? Just one or two positive votes, the rest is just idle work. And that's the wages, and that's people, and the main thing is that people expect results, and that's not the result. Why do I say that? I think because this decision is completely unwritten, what is the commission going to do? Will it investigate the circumstances and causes of ineffective management of state property in the agri-industrial complex? Property in an agro-industrial complex is very large in many areas. Is it going to be the property, the property pies that people actually stole from a lot of corporate managers? Will it deal with lands that were owned by, for example, some State institutions? Will it, for example, be occupied with botanical gardens that are part of the agrarian sphere and once again the land is built? I mean, I don't know what the subject of this commission is. If we were to write specifically what we would do and then get a specific answer, we would move in some direction. Thus, to me, the translation of the work of this commission is incomprehensible. Each of you knows that today we have the worst situation with the earth. Everyone knows that the earth is being destroyed today. Especially is the change in the target destination of lands, lands, and especially valuable lands. So let's, honourable deputies, let's react, well, responsible for creating such committees. If the committee's object of activity were clearly identified here, if the objectives and tasks were clearly recorded here, we could vote for such a commission. And this is just going to be another commission that's going to replace the committee that's going to be used to pressure its political opponents, and we're not going to get the result again. Again, the village will be left without a solution to serious problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u71	Lyszko Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u72	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! Indeed, there are many questions whether the next commission, which we have already created in the Supreme Council, will help to resolve those issues of inefficient government management in the agro-industry complex. But the very question raised by a fellow juryman, he did it quite right. I'll give you an example. In the village of Krisky, in the district of Koropsk, a liquor plant used to work. Provided that it was the Chernigiv region, providing the whole area with wages, money and so on. The factory's not working today. 900 people working in this factory are unemployed. There's a manager sitting there, and they're pulling, stretching out the last of that liquor plant that was there. Yesterday I was at a meeting in the district of Cernigiv, where people are asking questions about property pies. The Colgos have been gone for 100 years, and so far they can't get their nine hundredths of dollars for their own pies. So it's quite obvious that the issue of inefficient government ownership in an agro-industrial complex, as in the case of the Kryskov Pivoszda Koropski, in the region of Czernigów, needs the attention of the Ministry of Agriculture. And I ask you to consider this statement as a parliamentary address to Minister Jury Melnik of the Agro-industry, requesting urgent action to restore the activities of the Kriszki Spirit Plant. Dear Mr. Melnik, if you need any help from me as a national deputy, the assistance of other state bodies, please, I am ready to provide any assistance. But our task, and I hope that the Ministry of Agriculture will support me in this, to re-establish both this liquor plant and dozens of other liquor and small and sugar factories. And right, my colleague Karmazin was talking about the milk industry when people were cheating for 10 years, as if they were putting VAT producers at the price of milk, and in fact, farmers were paying 80 copies per liter of milk. That is to say, we need to make every effort to really manage property in an agro-industry complex and manage state property, and Kriszkowski, in particular, the liquor plant that I'm talking about, is a state-owned enterprise, so that it can be used effectively in the interests of the community, in the interests of the state, to pay taxes so that people can work there and get a salary. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u73	Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u74	Dear colleagues, I would like to deny John Alexanderovich whether a commission is needed or not. Of course, both the committee is needed, and the question is extremely relevant. But what rights does Ivan Alexanderovich have? I don't call them names, but there's a lot of Alexander's Ivans. But in what he is certainly right, we need to change the law, strengthen the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine or return to our law on the status of our special commissions, because we represent the people who sent us to Parliament here, and very often when we consider these issues, these temporary special commissions of inquiry will show our own powerlessness and inability to protect people's interests. Inefficient land management, state property in the agrarian and industrial complex, has called for, first, sharp and catastrophic, beginning in 2008, a decline in the standard of living of the rural population, a steady increase in unemployment, namely a terrible fall in the value of the national labour force in the village, which has led to an extremely bitter and black disaster: we have wages for working people in the village today below the level of social unemployment assistance. That can't be right! Think about it, in the country today, if you take all the money for a hundred percent, it's only 30 percent, everything else is social assistance. In fact, the village is on the verge of extinction. That can't be right. Look at the hall, how many people from the village, and human resources -- it's the main resource for education, for law enforcement, for power structures, for the army, and so on. We have, remember, with you in this session room, on the Social Policy Committee in recent times reflected in the efforts of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to compare an OSG member to a working person and remove this minimum 500-gram social assistance for unemployment if a person has 15 hundred cities. The other one. With your cooperation in 2004, we were able to compare the pension payments to industrial levels for APC workers. Remember in the Soviet Union: 120 rubles of pension in the city and 12 rubles in the village. There can't be a return to this. But now the rural pension reform needs to be continued and completed. And the last. I'm from the Ivano-Frankow region, I've brought in about 40 allegations from the Tisminic region that people living in these villages, where children have grown up, where they need to expand their families, don't separate the land. They're from this village. So from this village the land is allocated to the inhabitants of Ivano-Frankivsky, Uzhgrad, Jaremchi and so on. I think this commission should find out that we as queens have appeared in the positions of the rural heads of Johno-Frankovsky, Lviv and other areas. The commission needs to be created. And whether it's effective or not, it's up to us.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u75	Arjev Vladimir Igorovich
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u76	Dear colleagues, there is a rather strange situation. We're looking at the creation of temporary commissions of inquiry initiated by the Party of the Regions, but we don't consider those temporary commissions of inquiry that initiate other political forces. I'd like to remind you of such an interesting thing. When the Party of Regions demanded the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry for the Minister of Interior Yuri Lucenka, the People's Self-Defense voted and supported the creation of this commission of inquiry. I have a question. What are you afraid of? I only understand what your leader said yesterday in Ukraine. Ukraine doesn't need imported democracy, so it's against imported democracy. So here, dear fellows, I can tell you one thing: democracy can't be imported or exported, because that's what they think. Only the tyrannies of the last 20th and early 19th centuries. Democracy is or is not. And let's do it. Don't be afraid! Let's create a temporary commission of inquiry on the Inter-Igoria, and if you don't, if you don't, you'll confirm once again that you and your leader are against democracy, which you said yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u77	Stonewall Valery Grigorovich. Yavrovsky Vladimir Alexandrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u78	Dear voters! Dear National Deputies! Vladimir Yavorowski, "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko", city of Kirovograd. Well, it's already completely clear that the creation of the commission of inquiry, once such a sweet concept in the 89th year, was the first time in the sessions of the Supreme Council of the Soviet Union when a commission was formed on Tbilisi, and the dog was investigating it, today it turned into an absolute. absolute political schizophrenicism, and we understand very well that the results after the work of such committees are absolutely zero. It's just a crumb in the hands of a certain political power to have someone's age polished. And now it's 10 people's deputies. Well, what to hide, we know very well how these commissions work. Half the people come, half the people don't come. 10 national deputies have to respond to what is happening with state property all over Ukraine. You can imagine this tremendous work. It seems, but more logical: let's take a decision, make sure the relevant authorities, say, the same Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Security Service, the Ministry of Agriculture include, let's say, those groups could include national deputies -- professionals -- and let them investigate this question so that we can have an answer to a painful state question, not. I can imagine what it would be like to have a few facts drawn up so that, let's say, wet one of our rivals. But on the other hand, it makes sense. Today, the whole of Ukraine is buzzing with “Mežiriya”. I was in Medjugorje in the '90s, and I made my way through it, and I saw it with my own eyes, along with the late National Deputy Vadim Boyk. I know that. I like it very much, however, as Janukovic's family explained, that he needs so much, because, you see, he needs this place to be very high. This is where MPs can make a specific case, because documents have been stolen, stolen by the same “regions”. We understand well that many things will be hidden. This involved, by the way, the President who granted permission to privatize this house. This is where MPs can do specific work -- and answer to society. And that's where all the national MPs are. I think there's an absolute logic to this. And the last. Alexander Volodymyrovich, please. This has been the case for so long, a draft decree prepared by our Committee on Culture and Spirituality — for the following year. Well, the fact that Ukraine will be budgetless is already clear. Let's make sure it doesn't have any significant dates in January. Let's put them together today, let's put them together. But someone deliberately puts them in the tail of the matter so that they will not be considered. Do so so that we can consider this matter today, at least tomorrow.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u79	Konovaluk Valerius Illich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u80	Please give the word to the head of the committee of the jury, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u81	Thank you. Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies! Of course, such a heated discussion of this issue suggests that an agro-industrial complex is a large sector, a large sector and a sector today is fundamental to the economy of the country. Of course, it's wonderful that there's discussion and different visions, but I'm kind of surprised by the position of the Zaytz, Yavorowski, Karmazin. I felt that these deputies were precisely the commitment of a strong position on the proper distribution of state property when entering a market relationship. Of course, the question is, Which areas should we consider? Yeah, in an agri-industrial complex where you can't go and there's a problem. Because the agro-industry complex is being dismantled ineffectively and improperly. Of course, we're going to involve the CIA, the Ministry of Justice, the House of Accounts and engage, and we're going to contact the Special Commission on Privatization, of course. And I support the Hare MP, who today needs to take a look at the priority issue: and where did our 240-year-old fishing boats go today is 14. At the same time, when we have a quota of eight million tons of fish in neutral waters, we can't use that. Of course, we need to understand what the future of the alcohol industry, what the future of today’s landslides is before we enter the earth’s market. I support and divide these positions, that's for sure. There can be no other way. So I'm in favour of getting us under. Milk factories, sugar factories, they're no longer private, now is the time. are not state-owned and also need to be clarified. The sugar branch is in decline today. Today, we also import meat, fish, potatoes, carrots, garlic. Today we will have to import four hundred thousand tons of sugar with you to ensure the minimum and food security of our nation. So I think this commission is necessary and it can work productively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u82	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Question completed. Now the lines. The people's representative of the Hare, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u83	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. There's nothing strange about my position, Mr. Mikolo, because we want the commission to be effective, to be effective. In order for the commission to be effective, it is necessary to define very clearly the work cycle and the areas you will be investigating. I absolutely agree with you that the issue of the fishing fleet is a very important question, because Ukraine is losing more than just the fishing fleet, Ukraine will lose its fishing quotas, it will lose its ability to extract resources from the sea. Similarly, I would like to see the question of spiders considered. Yesterday I claimed that up to 40 percent of the pies had no owner. That's almost 13 miles. hectares. Who's going to get these pies, and they're going to spin around these pies. So is the sugar branch. Yesterday we made a decision that basically cuts off sugar factories, and today we cry for sugar factories. That's why I'm here.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u84	Replica is Volodymyr Aleksandrovitch Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u85	Vladimir Yavorowski, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, town of Kirovograd. My last name and other colleagues were mentioned because they did not expect us to take that position. I am convinced that this is an objective, completely sterilely clean position in which there is absolutely nothing to doubt. I'm calling the reporter. I say again, I'm going to report to you that I've run enormously, there's so much crime, every inch of Ukrainian black land, using state property. I agree with you. But once again, I don't believe that 10 people's deputies are getting to the bottom of it all. It's totally not real. I called you an example. The extremity plant of the city of Korovograd produces the vodka "Artemis", which is followed by Antonyeva, a former national deputy feared by the local police. They're afraid to just touch it. But it works on wild alcohol, which is completely unpublished. Taxes are not paid. I think that 10 deputies can only do one thing at a time. And their tens, hundreds.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u86	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u87	I'm done. Because of this, I am convinced that our agrarian committee, where all political forces are represented, needs to be raised up by government authorities, let alone sleep, let alone do not doze. And to investigate all these questions, and to give the Ukrainian Nard, the peasant, an objective painting.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u88	Thank you. The discussion is over. With regard to the matter raised, Vladimir Alexanderovich, who violated the Memorial dates, although not relevant to the subject, may I suggest that if you find support for the leaders of all parliamentary factions, we may consider this today. A question that applies to everyone. Others who have violated the question of the other investigating committees, I am addressing the regulatory committee, I have now looked at, we have registered this week to consider projects on the establishment of interim inquiry committees on the investigation of the abolition of Prime Minister Timoshenko Yuli Volodymyryn in payment of taxes; to verify the legality of the transfer to Janukovich Viktor Fedorovich of the government residence; to investigate the non-payment of taxes by the Ukrainian National Lottery and its involvement in the activities of the national deputies of Sobolev, Terjehochina, Ukolova. Please check with the committee so that we can resolve these issues in the session room. Dear colleagues! I'm putting to the vote a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of circumstances and reasons for ineffective management of state property in the agro-industrial complex. [[Registration number 4773]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:37:34]] For 199 Decision taken. Excuse me for a moment, dear fellows! We have an incomplete quota of one faction left here, and maybe there'll be a proposal for the commission to be able to resolve this issue now. The Yulia Timoshenko faction didn't run. Are there any candidates? It won't. Question completed. Dear colleagues, now back to the question, previously not supported, please go to Oleg Volodymyrovich Novikov's rostrum. A draft law amending certain Ukrainian laws on the prevention and suppression of corruption is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 5398]]
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u89	Dear colleagues, Mr. Chairman, if we have returned to this issue again, I would like to repeat my proposal yesterday. Postponing the relevant bills for a period of three months and clearly recording the deadline for the introduction of the April 1, 2001, bill. Let the government officials in question take these three months as anti-corruption holidays, they'll have time to put their income declarations in order, and April, you know, the civil servants are making income declarations, it's going to be very timely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u90	Thank you, Oleg Volodymyrovich. Is there a need to go back to the discussion? There's no need. Thank you. Dear colleagues, in order for us to solve the three-month issues proposed by the reporter, we need to base this project, then change it, change the year for three months. No one insists on discussing it? No one insists. Please, if no one insists on the discussion, dear colleagues, if no one insists on the speech, I place the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to prevent and combat corruption. [[Registration number 5398]] I'd like to make a statement. [[11:40:51]] For 239. Decision taken. Now for the suggestions. A proposal was made by the author of the Legislature of Oleg Volodymyrovich Novikov to change the text of the fixed term, transfer of the date, postponement of the entry into force of this law not one year, not until 1 January 2011, but by 3 months, until 1 April 2010. Please, National Deputy Bondik, then the Zarubinsky National Deputy, if there are other proposals, raised their hands.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u91	Dear colleagues! Indeed, the bill is necessary, but remember the history of this bill. It was written on a FATF requirement. And the reporting period is a complete sublimation of facts. Why? Because in April, really, the reporting period. But the event and the event, the event, and the responsibility for the event do not come from deadlines. So I would suggest that we go back to what was in the law for a year. In a year, the following authorities will be able to work out their practices in a year. And secondly, I see here the Deputy Minister of Justice asking Alexander Volodymyrovich to give him his word. Why? Because this law is regulated by European legislation. And we know that all of our legislative acts should be legalized by the Ministry of Justice, because I don't know what European practice is. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u92	Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich Uh-oh! We're going to have so much. So they raised their hands, and I immediately announce that if they no longer insist, it means that the Zarubinsky People’s Deputy, the Ariev People’s Deputy, the Klukkowski People’s Deputy, and the Zebrovsky People’s Deputy. Is anyone else insisting? So we don't have to record it. And national deputy Bodnar. Nobody insists anymore. Then we're here to end this, because otherwise we have to do the recording. All right, no more insistence, please, Zarubinsky Oleg Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u93	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, the Block of Lithuania has certainly voted in favour of the proposal for three months. But I'd like to ask you a question so that maybe we can think together. It was said that it would take three months for government officials to, let's say, bring their documents into line with taxes and so forth. But frankly, I don't think it should be for government officials to do this, let them do it now, let them do it in a week or two. It's about something else that needs to be changed to the relevant anti-corruption legislation so that the victims of this inequitable anti-corruption legislation don't become ordinary people, they don't become medics, they don't become teachers, they don't become school principals, they don't become small businesses. I want to ask you: January, February and March, is this the time when these proposals will be made? And we don't expect the President's veto to happen, and that way we're not going to lead to anything. It seems to me that six months is exactly the term when.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u94	Thank you. National Deputy Ariev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u95	Dear colleagues, once again, as yesterday, I would like to show you the already registered Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Principles for Preventing and Resisting Corruption, which solves very many issues and problems that were rightly expressed yesterday. I realize that the law will still be passed, that there are voices. But let's not at least embarrass Ukraine before the world, and we're only going to spend two months until March 1st, 2010. During this time, you can make all the changes you need. But otherwise we're actually showing the world that we don't want to fight corruption. Let's not embarrass Parliament and Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u96	People's MP Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u97	Thank you, Yuri Klukkowski. I support the idea of Ukraine's integration into Europe and the adaptation of legislation. However, I would not want us to be in the role of a person who was sent to God to pray, and she broke her forehead as a result. Let's be smarter and vote not for the title of the bill anymore, but for its contents. There's nonsense in this law. If anyone's interested in European practice, I'll tell you that involving public service professionals in universities is one of the priorities of European practice. We actually banned it, we practically banned it. For those who do not believe so, let them go and ask how Ecole Nationale d’administration works in France, who teaches there? So I feel that I need to think wisely about what to correct in this law. This takes time, two weeks of plenary work, which is until the end of February, is not enough. And so I think three months is the minimum.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u98	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u99	And so I think three months is the minimum period that will require fast work. In this regard, I would suggest that we also vote today in favour of including in the session of the bill tabled by Deputy Ariev as the beginning of the work.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u100	National deputy, Žebrovsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, the Supreme Hall voted today to ensure that there were no more meetings actually before the first round of elections. Because of this. There's still a day's work, but most likely there are voices. This makes it clear that it is impossible to make adjustments in this month. In fact, you know, they say, "You've made a fool of God to pray, he's gonna kill his forehead." Because of this, what we have adopted in this law is that we beat our foreheads and not ourselves. The question is not the problem in this room, it's the problem with those who create national wealth, the people who work. So we have to figure out what we have to figure out. But for there to be no charges, I think that three months is the best time to correct those who have worked out this law, who knows and sees how to do it. And there will be no objection. Proposals -- two, a year there, six months and so on -- will lead to a balance and a lack of acceptance of this law. There was some sort of consensus decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u102	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u103	There was some sort of consensus decision in the hall for three months. That's why, honourable colleagues, I'm asking you, let's consolidate, vote in three months, and we'll adopt this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u104	National Deputy Bodnar Olga Borisovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u105	Olga Bodnar, Timoshenko Street. Dear colleagues! You know, I just got back from the ship, I was in Albania. Such a country is small, Albania. Well, she's in a position to fight corruption much better than she is in our room right now. FATF determines that Albania has adopted legislation that meets European requirements much higher. And there's no claim to it. If we're going to be out there somewhere, away from fighting corruption, I want to remind you, if we don't listen to Ariev right now, and we're going to listen to your stupid proposals to postpone this law for three months, there for a year or so, that's where the auctions went. So I want to remind you that the Anti-Corruption Act is out of force on January 1, 2010. And there, in transitional positions, it is written in connection with the validity of this law. Well, there's no changing that norm. So the question is, apart from the Cabinet of Ministers and the House of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u106	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u107	And the parts of "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" anyone else in this room is fighting corruption or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u108	Dear colleagues! The suggestions have been completed. We're done making proposals. The name of the national deputy Ariev was mentioned. Please, a line.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u109	Dear colleagues! My colleague just got off the phone. The proposal and the remark are absolutely heard. It turns out that we are cancelling the introduction of a new law, and the old law has ceased. So, what's going on, we have a huge amount of time to do the jobs of everyone who wants to? So come on, come on, think about what we're doing. We're going to be the last place in the world of equal corruption, and we're going to be the laughingstock of the whole world.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u110	The suggestions have been completed. Honorary colleagues, national MPs Novikov and Klukkowski proposed that the date of validity of those bills should be April 1, 2010, the Zarubinsky National MP proposed – July 1, 2010, and Ariev proposed – March 1, 2010. At the same time, we must also immediately vote for the validity of the law that we have governed all the years before it comes into force. It is vital that we keep this standard in place. Please prepare for the vote. I'll bet you a vote. Please, everyone, listen to the vote. The vote is put to the vote by the National Deputies of Novikov and Klukkowski to postpone the entry into force of the laws of the three in question until April 1, 2010. Please identify yourself. [[11:52:22]] For 243 Decision taken. The following suggestions are no longer worth considering. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the whole draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to prevent and combat corruption, stating that a valid law will fail only after the validity of Law 5398 has become effective. [[registration 5398]] Please identify yourself. [[11:53:05]] For 241 The decision has been taken, the law has been passed in general. The factions? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u111	Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! If you can, of course, I think we should give protocol.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u112	I'll read the factions first. Region Party – 170, “Timoshenko Yulia Block” – 1, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” – 46, Communists – 0, “Litvina Block” – 19, non-fractional – 5. Please, with the motives of Mikola Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u113	Dear colleagues, I'm not motivated, I'm proposing that we give a protocol commission to our profile committee. This means that we have not only delayed our decision for three months, but over the three months we need to prepare all the amendments to the law, analyze them, find compromise and vote accordingly. That's why I, Alexander Volodymyrovich, would ask that we protocolly state that the committee during this period should prepare changes to the law and vote in due time for us to have these bills from April 1st, which we are debating today.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u114	Thank you. Such an offer is accepted. I ask, please, the head of the committee, the members of the committee to work quickly. And there was a proposal also made by the People's Deputy Klukkowski to include in the agenda of the next session a bill which was now proposed by 5466, which has already been registered. This session. Please, I said what are you suggesting? The agenda for this session, we're going to have a few more plenary weeks, draft Law 5466, which provides for amendments to the three laws that we've now approved. I'm voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the day session of draft Law 5466, this session, currently, 5466. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:55:19]] For – 64 I am. The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, please, we have three months to make quality proposals, and all the projects will be compiled and will necessarily be considered in the session room. We do not have the right to leave the standards that are now in the previous laws. Please make suggestions, ask the committee to work actively, and make sure that we have a decision in the session room regarding the changes in these standards that have today sparked a heated discussion in the session room. Maybe we'll finish with a motive? We have so many questions to consider today. Dear colleagues, we have two questions that are proposed by the leaders of the five factions of Parliament. The first issue today is the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation. [[on coping with the negative effects of the financial crisis]] Project of the People's Deputy Poluniev number 5378. And now I have also received a proposal signed by the leaders of the five factions concerning draft Law 5451 on the number and composition of the National Commission on Radiation Protection of the People of Ukraine. Will there be any objection to including in today's meeting schedule a second issue after considering a previously agreed one? Is there no objection? Is there a denial? Take it off. Then we're not going to look at it. We've already talked about it for both reasons and procedure. A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to deal with the negative effects of the financial crisis is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 5378]] Report by Yuri Volodymyrovich Poluniev. Please. Dear colleagues! There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Questions related to approval in the first reading alone, the second reading we have a separate procedure. I am voting on the proposal to review the shortened procedure for the bills that are being considered today in the first reading. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:58:17]] For 171 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, before the report, we have question 5378 not yet included in the agenda of the session. Therefore, I would like to put to the vote a proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[Registration number 5378]] I'd like to make a statement. [[11:58:56]] For 298 Decision taken. Please report to Yuri Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u115	Dear head, distinguished national MPs, voters! Ukraine's draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts was introduced in November of this year's provisions of the Ukrainian Law on amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts with a view to overcoming the negative effects of the financial crisis. [[on coping with the negative effects of the financial crisis]] [[No.1533-6]] The law provides for, inter alia, voluntary restructuring of credits in the banking sector, which is an extremely relevant and acute problem. The number of difficult loans in the banking sector is increasing, and so one way out of this problem is through voluntary restructuring of such loans. But the law, which was adopted and signed by the President, imposes restrictions. And banks today, along with borrowers, are very often unable to find the necessary answers. So the bill, which is proposed, extends the scope of possible restructuring and is extremely useful. In addition, when considering the law that was passed, some of the provisions of the bill have lost their relevance at the present stage, they may have a negative effect. This is particularly true of the period of return of export proceeds and the temporary moratorium on accelerated repayment of loans to nonresidents. This situation, especially if not immediately removed by this bill, can lead to technical defolits. Because international financial law provides for the possibility of such accelerated repayment of loans by a creditor. Therefore, taking into account the fact that the proposed bill has been sent to a committee unanimously adopted by the Committee, the Committee invites the Supreme Council to accept it as a whole, in the first reading and in general. I ask the honourable national deputies to vote and thus to support both our borrowers and the Ukrainian banks that are today.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u116	We have a reduced procedure, so please complete the procedure in a concise manner.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u117	That's it, I'm done. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u118	Have a seat, please. We write: two for, two for, two for against. Arjewitin Stanislav Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u119	Ladies and gentlemen, this proposal has been discussed in our committee for a long time. We have come to the conclusion, considering that the financial year is ending, it must be accepted. Once again, I wanted to point out that the previous norm that has worsened the conditions of external trade for entrepreneurship, that is, the reduction in the repayment period from 180 to 90 days, could lead to an increase in the negative conditions for entrepreneurship. It reduces favourable conditions, it reduces export volumes, and it reduces the currency in our country. The ban on making any changes to contracts by residents in many countries is recognized as the previous standard of default. That's why we have to delete this rule too. In the bill that we had previously adopted, we came into conflict when in one law concerning foreign investment, we wrote down two rules: on the one hand, we are allowed to invest in foreign currency and in our national currency, on the other hand, we are allowed to limit the norm and only in the monetary regime. Therefore, this standard should also be brought into line. The bill suggests that, as a result of the work of the liquidation committees, the demands of individuals should be made in the first line of return from the rates returned by the liquidation commission. We have raised statutory capital for banks that are created from 75 million to 120 million, considering that over the year five new banks have been opened, and for active banks we have written down the rule that when regulatory capital exceeds registered capital, and the bank endures capital adequacy, this rule does not extend to active banks. Next. We've expanded the new rules on mortgage restructuring for all credit agreements. So the proposal, considering the end of the year, is to adopt this bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u120	Chechtev Mikhailo. Dear colleagues, we continue the morning plenary meeting, we postpone the recess for a few minutes, until the question is closed, because we have only 2 registered for discussion and decision-making now.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u121	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies! A bill aimed at improving individual rules of current legislation in the area of credit and financial regulation, ensuring the sound functioning of the banking system and implementing effective measures to support Ukraine's economy is proposed to amend the line of Ukrainian laws: the order of settlement in foreign currency, the taxation of profits of enterprises, the National Bank of Ukraine, banks and banking activities, the foreign investment regime, the amendment of certain laws of Ukraine with a view to overcoming the negative effects of the financial crisis. It is also proposed to establish that the National Bank, with the aim of providing support to a bank in need of financial recovery and for the purpose of providing credit programmes, is entitled, in accordance with the arrangements established by the National Bank of Ukraine and agreed with the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Finance and Banking, to provide the Bank with a loan without collateral. The other one. To carry out a loan extension contract without collateral and a third, to enter into a contract for the bank to include a refinancing loan into a subsidiary debt. The project also proposes to amend article 31 of the Banking and Banking Act to increase the minimum statutory capital size on the day of the bank's registration from 75 million to 120 million dollars. The faction of the Party of the Regions proposes to support the adoption of this bill in both the first and second readings. Accept it as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u122	Smith Grigory Ekimovich. One minute against. Dear colleagues!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u123	The problem is that I pressed a button against this law, or the question and the system didn't work, so I was asked to give me my word. The question is: Is it the following? For more than a year, there has been a financial crisis in Ukraine. What is happening in Ukraine? Most of the banks in Ukraine, which are now in critical condition, are not in the possession of Ukraine, but outside. And what are we doing? During the last year, we have periodically passed laws that you understand under a hat. [[on coping with the negative effects of the financial crisis]] Banks are the same business as thousands of businesses today in a very difficult financial situation. Why do we give preference to banks, and why do we not make laws that protect our investors? Where are those investors who lost about 200 billion dollars and no one points to that question. Why don't these banks answer why these bank lords aren't here today, if you'll excuse me, under arrest? Where human money has been allocated. Why don't we? So I will definitely oppose this bill to accept in general, regardless of what they reinforce or improve the financial situation. Until then, so long.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u124	Georgi Yudkomovich, please sit down. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the basis of a draft law in the first reading amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts to deal with the negative effects of the financial crisis. [[Registration number 5378]] I'd like to make a statement. [[12:08:24]] For 229 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, by the factions, please. Region Party - 165, Timoshenko Yulia Block - 2, Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense - 31, Communists - 27, Litvina Block - 0, non-fractional - 4. During the discussion, a proposal was made for a general vote. Please, is there a denial? There's a denial, National Deputy Carmazin, please. Please, National MP Carmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u125	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't mind voting on the bill as a whole, but they need to remove the anti-constitutional things that I mean. And in such cases, where there are some negatives in the conclusion, including scientific and expert management, we don't have to put it into a brief discussion, this more serious law is now set up as a brief discussion. Changes have been made to Article 42, which gives the National Bank the right to grant a loan to the National Bank in agreement with the Committee of the Supreme Council on Finance and Banking, to extend a loan agreement, to refinance without collateral, and to make a contract to include this bank in a subordinated debt. I don't think these standards are the same as the Constitution, and that's what the science and expertise department is talking about, part of the first article of 89. Therefore, this article 42 should be deleted, and another can be voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u126	The national deputy Yavorowski is also against the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u127	Dear colleagues, the Yulia Tymoshenko Block against this, and because of this, you can't immediately put to the vote in general, because, in fact, personally, let's say, I'm being warned by the norm, which is really allowed to do just that with the Supreme Council Committee, which obviously is leading Azarov, to issue again, and without bail, without any commercial banks. This is unacceptable, there is still work to be done on the subject, and only after that can a total vote be put to the vote. Under the Rules, Alexander Volodymyrovich, you do not have the right to vote in general, if there is a denial, the more the whole faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u128	Thank you, Volodymyr Alexanderovich, for reminding me, I don't forget that. The bill was adopted in the first reading, please prepare for the second reading. There's a break in 12.41 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u129	Dear colleagues, we continue our work. Announcement. In connection with the arrival on 6 November 2009 at the address of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvina, under the signature of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Paris, on the withdrawal from office of the deputy faction "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" Martinenko Mikoli Volodymirovic, according to the findings of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Security of the Supreme Council of Ukraine submitted by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Parubia, a copy of the materials on the withdrawal from the post of the head of the deputy faction "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" Martinenko Mikoli Volodymirovic was not properly formed. Dear colleagues, we continue our work. The draft Ordinance establishing a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the preparation of the concept of judicial and legal reform is being announced for consideration. Registration number 4153. Reporting by Ukrainian national deputy Shustik Olena Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u130	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues and voters! I propose to your consideration a draft decree establishing a temporary special commission to prepare the concept of judicial and legal reform in Ukraine. It's about reforming the entire branch of power, as you can see, the judiciary. The creation of such a commission will enable us to finally move from the systemless reform of the judiciary and the politicization of the courts to the fundamental principles of the functioning of justice. For three months, the Commission has worked on the concept of judicial and legal reform, which will provide for pre-eminent systemic and holistic, scientifically sound and methodologically balanced measures and means of completing judicial reform in Ukraine. At the conclusion of the chairman of the regulatory committee of Ephraim, it is stated that, according to the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulation on the list, the number of compositions and subjects of knowledge of the committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth vocation, the development of the concept of judicial and legal reform is not a subject of dedication of any committee. Therefore, only a special body within the structure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is able to consolidate the efforts of all political forces and the Committee on Justice, Legal Policy, the Fight against Organized Crime and Corruption, the Committee on Budget Affairs to prepare a concept that reflects the views and positions of scientists, the public, and judges for the real protection of human rights. The creation of a temporary special commission is also part of the second article of article 89 of the Constitution of Ukraine. At all stages of work, the commission should be as open and transparent as possible. At the time of the committee’s consideration, the Communist Party faction did not submit its candidacy. But to this day they represent Deputy Igor Alekseyev. Please support this decision. Dear colleagues, each of your factions is represented in Parliament, has a candidate for the presidency, each of the factions, each of the parties, and the Presidential candidates say that the judiciary should be reformed. Show today by your vote that you are really going to do this.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u131	Finish up, be easy. You're done. Okay. Please report to the committee chairman on the Efraemov Rules of Procedure, Mr. Alexander Sergiyovich. Let's sign up for a discussion: two for, two for, two for. The entry has been completed, only “for” has been written. Please report, the head of the Committee of Ephraim, Alexander Sergiyyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u132	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies! On April 1, the Committee reviewed the draft Supreme Council Regulation on the establishment of a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the preparation of the concept of judicial and legal reform, introduced by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Shustik, 18.03. [[Registration number 4153]] 2009 instead of the previous one. In accordance with article 89, part 2, of the Constitution, the Supreme Council of Ukraine may, within the limits of its powers, establish temporary special committees for the preparation and prior consideration of matters. According to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Ordinance on Listing, Quantum Composition and Knowledge of Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine VI of December 4, 2008, the question of developing a concept of judicial and legal reform is not defined as one that belongs to the subject matter of the knowledge of any committee. Moreover, the question of the implementation of judicial reform is such that the orderly activity of a separate branch of government and the judiciary has a social interest and requires a professional approach in developing the concept of its introduction with the involvement of individual committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, individual national deputies of Ukraine, scientists, practitioners, the public. On the basis of the development of the concept of judicial and legal reform, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has to determine exactly what legislation needs to be prepared to implement this concept. In view of the foregoing, it is appropriate to establish such a temporary special commission. The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft decision. Please identify yourself with the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u133	Thank you. Please sit down. Discussion. Bodnar Olga Borisovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u134	Olga Bodnar, Timoshenko Street. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! The need for adoption of the proposed project is due to the problem of reforming the judiciary, the judiciary, and the status of judges. Given the extremely important legal, social, economic, political and other consequences, changes have to be science-based, systematic and consistent in order to lead the reform into legal order. In the event of a temporary special commission being created, such an opportunity will be possible. Finally, there will be the possibility of involving professionals in this important process. If you listen to the opinion of scientists, full judicial and legal reform takes no more than two years of concerted, consistent, hard work. Now the issue of judicial reform has been going on a closed circuit for more than two years on a politically-engaged committee, while the legitimacy of the bills adopted in the first reading, which changes the system of the judiciary and the status of judges, as a minimum, is questionable. In the meantime, judges and scientists are devoid of any influence in determining the principles and directions of reform. Such a situation is absurd, since it is not only the policy that is so important to society as a whole that it cannot be redeemed. Now we have the opportunity to start with a clean page and preferably immediately. So please support the draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u135	Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u136	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich, dear colleagues. Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. We have a certain imbalance in commissioning, a temporary commission of investigators, and a special commission of investigators. We have a lot of investigation boards, because we're all big investigators, and there's a lot of questions that we want to investigate. And little is created by a special temporary commission, which has a real purpose and where we can actually develop serious things. Because it was rightly said that these commissions were created to realize the social-important interest or social-important problem. Is the concept of judicial reform socially important? Absolutely. We had parliamentary hearings. All the participants of these hearings spoke of this without exception. Are we satisfied with today's state of affairs, the structure, the way the legal plane works, let's say, this social life sector? No, it's not. And it seems to me that the authors of this proposal, the legislative proposal, have done the right thing in this format and are trying to create a commission as a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine that will actually allow experts, experts not involved in the party, not engaged politically, not engaged in the faction. Our faction, the “Lithuania Block”, will vote in full for the creation of this, so to speak, a proper temporary special commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u137	From a faction that has not been recorded, one minute is given to the National Deputy Bondik.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u138	Dear colleagues, we need judicial reform, we all recognize it on the right side of the hall and on the left side of the hall. But in agreement with my committee colleague, Helena Shustik, I would like to point out that, according to article 85 of the Rules, honourable Mrs. Helen, we cannot narrow down the mandate of the committee if this is related to the committee. So I'm going to support almost the vote for your temporary special commission. Right here, they say it's not an investigative commission, it's a special commission that needs 226 votes. But remember such things. Unfortunately, you and I, as politicians, have spoiled the courts, and the Chief Justice can confirm that. If one of the presidential candidates does not like the number on the list, the courts, at the request of this candidate to the Presidents, cancel the number 13. [[such in the electoral process, no electoral law has ever been in Ukraine's history.]] We can agree that.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u139	Thank you, Valery Anatolyovich. Dear colleagues, the head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, Vasil Vasilovich Onopenko, participates in the plenary session. Will there be any objection to allow him to speak for two minutes?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u140	No objections? Vasil Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u141	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! First of all, I'm grateful that you've come to this discussion, and I think it's going to be a great gift to the judicial system and society when you vote for the establishment of a temporary special commission. I think you understand, we all understand the importance of an objective review of any case in the courts for social relations. Today only a lazy person does not talk about problems in court or in court. But the vast majority of the judges are decent, honest people, they work by the rules you set here, and they're not always perfect. So I think that the creation of a special temporary commission that will be concerned solely with the judiciary and the status of judges will be extremely beneficial. From you, every faction will be entered by experts. The Supreme Court, the judicial system will help to update the court's concept. The president developed the concept of judicial reform, but unfortunately. and there are good things there, but the Supreme Council, in accordance with the Constitution, must approve a new concept of judicial reform. So I think the main task of this committee is to develop a new concept of judicial reform and to adopt it in this room. The Justice Committee. I respect the national MPs who work there, but they're too loaded. More than 300 judges today await their appointment, some courts stop, and the committee fails to consider these personnel issues. 8 judges or 10 judges to come to the Supreme Court are also not considered by the committee. So I think it's going to be a big deal, and in the morning, I want to thank you all for supporting the establishment of this temporary special commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u142	Dear colleagues, vote. Dear colleagues, it is based on a draft decree establishing a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the preparation of the concept of judicial and legal reform. [[Registration number 4153]] I'd like to make a statement. [[12:56:34]] For 239. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, now what are the suggestions for this decision? Please sign in. The digger, Yuri Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u143	Yuri Prokopchuk. That's a very important question. And the offer. I think it's only logical to accept it in general, because we need to work and order in the judicial system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u144	Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u145	Dear colleagues, I believe that we who voted and supported the creation of such a temporary special commission have done the right thing. There is one wish, or note, to the work, of the future work of the commission: that there be a concept, if there was no monopolies for the preparation of the concept of judicial reform, to take into account different points of view, that this procedure would be transparent, that this procedure would reflect the moods of the different circles of the judicial and civil elite in Ukraine, so that we would not have any monopoly, so that we wouldn't complain that any wrong decision had been made. In general, I want the commission and the author of this bill, Oleni Juryovni Šustik, to enjoy good health and a cheerful New Year’s Eve.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u146	Sergey Vladislavovich was involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u147	Please pass the word to Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u148	Well, it's automatic, because it's next. National MP Vlasenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u149	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, the honourable ones present! There are a few questions, completely technical, in this determination. Paragraph 8 suggests hearing a report no later than June 1, 2009. Of course, this date needs to be corrected, since the term has already expired. And we need to move the report, probably, to May 1, 2010. And in this context, I propose in paragraph 7 that the term of office of the commission be increased from three to six months. Well, now that the presidential elections are coming and the commission may not be able to deal effectively with all the issues related to judicial reform, and the issue is very cumbersome, large and requires a lot of reconciliation. So I would suggest in paragraph 7 instead of three months, six, and the committee's report will be heard no later than May 1, 2010. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u150	Bondik Valeriy Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u151	Dear colleagues, I have also asked for the words, Alexander Volodymyrovich, on the grounds that according to statistics, which unfortunately, or fortunately reigns in the courts, we should make a note of this ruling that they report in half a year, and so it would be appropriate for Vasil Vasil Vasilovich Onopenko to agree to report on June 1, because the courts report in half a year. And I agree with the speakers that this should be added. And secondly, I suggested that the composition of the commission be approved in the hall, so the candidates for this commission should be approved in the hall. We can do this now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u152	Dear colleagues, we have three proposals. One, to vote in general without change is the People's Deputy Prokopchuk. The National MP Vlasenko proposed a change of terms, a report by the Commission by June 1, 2010 and a six - month deadline. And the national deputy Bondik suggested that the sixth paragraph be voted separately, that is, where the commission is composed. I'm addressing the People's Deputy of Prokopchuk. Does he insist that I now make his proposal in general, without change? Don't insist. The proposal of the People's Deputies of Vlasenko to paragraphs seven and eight. Paragraph seven, changing the term of office of the commission from three months to six months and the report of the commission on June 1, 2010. First. [[B in m in s a l in]] It says here June. May? [[B in m in s a l in]] May 1, 2010. I'm putting the proposal of the National MP Vlasenko to a vote, please. [[13:01:25]] For 216 The offer is not supported. Dear colleagues, well, there's really a problem with us since 2009. It's about time, June 1st. [[B in m in s a l in]] There's an offer to return to the proposal of the national deputy Vlasenko. I'm voting on the motion to return to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:02:07]] For 245 We're back. I'm betting on the vote on the proposal of National Deputy Vlasenek to paragraphs 7 and 8 of the draft decree, to increase the time of the commission's work from 3 months to 6 months and to report to 1 May 2010. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:02:39]] For 246 Offer supported. Now, I'd like to make a point with the Bondik People's Deputy. Does he propose to vote on the 6th paragraph as it is, or does he have any proposals for a change of candidates for this commission? Please, the microphone of the Bondik People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u153	Alexander Volodymyrovich, you've made no note. My proposal was in the middle of the year, because it's a statistic, which is until June 1. This was the first offer. And the second is the number of boards and staff to be approved in the hall, and then the commission will work properly and motivatedly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u154	The proposal of the Bondik People's Deputy that we change May 1st to June 1st for the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:03:39]] For-42 The offer is not supported. Since there are no proposals for a personal composition, I would like to vote on paragraph 6, at the request of the national deputy Bondik, the draft decision which provides for the selection of the temporary special committee of such national deputies of Ukraine: Šustik Olen Yuriovna, Labunska Angelika Viktorovna, Sobolev Sergey Vladislavovich, Bondik Valeriy Anatoliyovich, Vasilev Hennaday Andrivovich, Kiwalov Sergey Vasilovich, Koleszenko Vadim Vasilovic, Stretovich Vladimir Mikolajovich, Shemčuk Viktor Viktor Mikolajovich. Paragraph six, I'll bet. What is the objection? National MP Shustik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u155	Olena Shustik, Timoshenko Yulia Block, Ukrainian Social Democratic Party. I told the Supreme Council from the rostrum that the Communist faction had submitted its candidacy, Alexeyev Igor Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u156	Alexeyev Igor Viktorovich. Yes, this is a candidate offered here, accepted. Dear colleagues! I'd like to vote on paragraph 6 of the draft order, please. [[13:05:26]] For 247 Decision taken. I now put to the vote the entire draft Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the establishment of a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the preparation of the concept of judicial and legal reform. [[Registration number 4153]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:05:58]] For 255 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! I have received a proposal signed by the leaders of the five deputies' factions with a proposal that we should now consider bill registration number 1287 amending the Ukrainian Law on Recovery or Recognition of the Debtor. [[Registration number 1287-1]] on the amendment of the Ukrainian Law on the Recovery or Recognition of the Debtor's Payability by Bankruptcy. [[on the prohibition of bankruptcy of mining enterprises]] There is no objection to any of these matters? Does anyone object to these questions? Is there a denial? National Deputy Karpuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u157	Alexander Volodymyrovich, I would like to ask you to consider the issue of the daily order, because as far as the day is concerned, the program is being moved from week to week, the adoption of a program for the prevention of cancers by 2016. Once again, there will be no program on the principles of family medicine, and so on, and from week to week, we're looking at it, and the term of the previous program ended in 2006, and it's in the order of the day. If we'd gone, we'd be looking now.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u158	Dear colleagues, there is no objection, it is an additional offer, since no one in the session room denies it. At the suggestion of the leaders of the five MP factions, I am announcing a draft Act amending the Ukrainian law on the restoration or bankruptcy of the debtor. [[Registration number 1287]] This is National Deputy Wolintz reporting, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u159	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished national MPs, at the end of the 1990s, in the early 2000s, there was a situation in the coal sector where 70 percent of enterprises, that's more than hundreds of mines, went bankrupt and had a very large loan debt. What was the situation? These were years ago, when equipment from the old closed mines was placed on the mines at the cost of new equipment, and in return coal was removed at very low prices. In order to save the coal sector, the Supreme Council, beginning in 2003, passed short laws for two years to amend the relevant law and prohibit the bankruptcy of coal industries with a share of public property of at least 25 percent. And so the People's Deputy Turmanov and the People's Deputies of the Royal Republic, Kravchenko, and I developed two bills in co-authorship. [[Communist faction]] They are identical, the only difference is that the Thurmanov People's Deputy proposes that the law be passed by 2013, and our option is to adopt the law by 2012. The Ministry of Economics and the Ministry of Coal Industry are supporting the bill in the co-authorship of Royal, Volinz and Kravchenk. Please support this bill. Otherwise, on January 1st, I'm going to block the accounts of all coal industries. We can't take people to work, we can't pay them on time, we can't buy the basic parts themselves, or on the mines where the consequences of the accidents are being eliminated, we can't do anything about the accident. And so I ask you to support this bill and vote for it in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u160	Please sit down, National Deputy Vetwicki Dmitry Alexanderovich, co-rapporteur of another bill. Is Vetwicki's national deputy giving up his project? Please, the microphone from the Vitwicki People's Deputy, from the place.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u161	We have decided with colleagues to consider only one bill today, which has already been reported, 1287-1
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u162	Dear Dmitre Alexandrovich, the decision is taken by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, if you're taking pictures, or refusing to, say it doesn't look like it does, so someone decides not to consider your draft law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u163	I'm taking my bill off today.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u164	That's it, thank you. Yeah, now we're clear. Please sign up for the discussion. School of Andriy Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u165	I suggest we just vote for this bill and put a dot. Gentlemen, I think that we need to correct here, under the circumstances, a situation that could come up with a whole coal sector since 1 January 2010. It's not a bill to hide behind, as it was done in a bill to combat bribery. Unfortunately, we have decided to fight corruption later, and this bill needs to be voted on now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u166	Please, the faction that didn't sign up, one minute, National Viceroy Evening.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u167	Evening, faction of Party regions. The distinguished people's MPs, the bill submitted by Deputy Volínec, the Party of the Regions will support for one reason, because today we must support the coal industry and first of all pay the miners they deserve. Today, coal is being channelled to power stations, there is heating of apartments, factories, and we support this social significance of the bill and miners, we believe that the pay must be paid first. Because if the accounts are blocked, it's no good to anyone, they'll stop the stop, unload the coal, and it'll be a social explosion. We therefore demand that this bill be supported by all the people's deputies, and we are in favour of coal miners, mainly Donbass and western parts of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u168	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u169	They received their wages in a timely manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u170	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. In view of the absence of one of the authors of the Thurmanov People’s Deputies, we cannot take it off the table without his will, I would like to place it on the vote, please listen carefully. I am voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Recovery or Recognition of the Debtor's Payment. [[Registration number 1287]] The author of the legislative initiative is the national deputy Turmanov. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:14:24]] For 368 Decision taken. So we already have the next bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u171	A proposal for us to accept as a whole. Is there a denial? Is there no objection in the session room? I put to the vote the whole bill amending the Ukrainian law on the restoration or bankruptcy of the debtor's ability to pay. [[Registration number 1287]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:15:12]] For 378 The law has been passed in general. Honorary colleagues, as well as the heads of the five MP factions, include in the agenda for today’s session and consider the draft Law on the Number and Composition of the National Commission on Radiation Protection of the People of Ukraine. Does anyone mind in the hall? No one's denying it. For reasons, please, the Royal People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u172	Dear Alexander Vladimirović, distinguished colleagues! We have a strong request for Bill 1287 to be drafted as soon as possible by the Supreme Council and to submit it to the President's signature and also to petition the Supreme Council to the President to have the bill signed before 1 January 2010. Because at least one day of delay in the entry into force of this bill as of 1 January 2010 may have a minor impact on the coal industry. Therefore, a great request for the leadership of the Supreme Council and all those working in the Supreme Council to submit the bill as a matter of priority to the President for signature. And thank you all for the unanimous support of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u173	Please, with the motivations of the People's Deputy of Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u174	Dear colleagues from BUUT, I would like to address you with the following. If you had voted in favour of this issue at your own time, rather than in politics, Yushchenko would have already signed the law and we had no urgent issue of the bankruptcy of the coal industry. And given that you refused to vote in favour of this bill last time, you took a few days. We then warned you about this matter. We have to play with politics less, and we have to do more with the economy. Let me remind you that you are a provincial faction and must be responsible for the real situation in the economy, the finances of our State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u175	Dear colleagues! I am asking for a report on the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the number and composition of the National Commission for Radiation Protection of the People's Republic of Ukraine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u176	Dear colleagues! On October 6, 2009, we approved the Nationals.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u177	Wait a minute, please, I'm sorry. I found out that we don’t have it in the agenda. I'm sorry. Since it's an initiative right now, I haven't been able to check it out. Dear colleagues! I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the number and composition of the National Commission on Radiation Protection of the People of Ukraine. Registration number 5451. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:18:36]] For 337 Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u178	Dear colleagues! On October 6, 2009, we adopted the position on the National Commission for Radiation Protection of the People of Ukraine. On this basis, we must approve with you the composition of the National Commission with the radiation protection of the population of Ukraine. The composition of the commission is consistent with the Presidency of the National Academy of Sciences and is proposed to the Committees on Environmental Policy and the elimination of the Chernobyl disaster. The Committee considered and proposed to the Commission 45 persons, half of whom had been members of NHRI since 2000, and the second half of them were representatives of various medical institutions, scientific institutions and institutions that specialize in this area. This list is distributed to you, agreed with all the see-throughs, and I'm asking you to support it. We need such a commission to address very important issues related to the extension of our nuclear power plants, nuclear power plant blocks, as well as the construction of the shelter of spent nuclear fuel and other issues related to the radiation protection of the population. Here's your pedigree.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u179	Let's sign up for a discussion. School of Andriy Vasilovich. School of Andriy Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u180	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, I've heard. I would like to point out that, in principle, we should remember that Ukraine suffered the most from technological processes at all. Let's think about Chernobyl. We are well aware of the need for the bill. I'm proposing to cut down, and I'm showing by my example in the statement that let's vote and demonstrate not only political engagement or lack of it, but at the moment we're just going to demonstrate government engagement. The problems that are needed in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u181	Evening Volodymyr Mikolajovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u182	Evening, Party of Regions. I would like to say, honourable members of the people, that today, Scubenko has demonstrated, a deputy, the highest professionalism, for the first time in the history of this commission. There are scientists and elites in our country. That is, this commission must work properly today and show and reduce the level of radiation associated with both Chernobyl and other industries. And these deputies need only be thanked and assisted by this commission, where 45 people are. I want to emphasize once again from the faction of the Party of the Regions, there are professionals here. Such professionals should work in the future both in the Government and in the Office of the President to lead the country in real terms. The Party of the Regions supports this national commission of 45. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u183	Now I want to answer those who raise their hand and say they've written against it, but they haven't written it down. According to your initiative, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has decided to review the reduced procedure. This means that since the faction, the “Council ” system has recorded only one person. The school of Andriy Vasilovich is one of your factions, and he expressed his point of view. So I'm very sorry, I didn't have to go through with this. From a faction that didn't register, one minute. Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u184	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. You know, I'd like to treat the initiators of this draft decision quite complimentaryly. This is an example of how to handle matters calmly, in accordance with both the Rules and legislation. There's the Supreme Council's decision, there's a commission for a profile committee, there's initiators, they've discussed, let's say, quality composition, quantity composition, they've agreed with everyone, they've really included, not MPs, glory to God, but experts in radiation protection. So I don't think anyone has any reason to deny the creation of this committee. This is an example of how legislative initiatives should be prepared and implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u185	I am betting on the adoption vote on the basis of the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the number and composition of the National Commission on Radiation Protection of the People of Ukraine. Registration number 5451. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:24:09]] For 307 Decision taken. Are there additions, changes? Please, National Deputy Ariev.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u186	Dear colleagues, I have been approached by two scientists and one former chairman of the Committee on Environmental Policy of the Supreme Council of the Third Appeal on the nomination proposed for the commission, Ilja Lichtaryov. This candidature has been categorically denied, since this man, Elijah Lichtarov, signed a statement on September 14, 1989, in particular by a group of scientists where 100 ber was considered a small dose of radiation. Do you have any idea what 100 beers are? This was considered to be “a small dose of radiation”. He also signed the plan for the construction of the city of Slavotic on the cesium spot, and scientists, former parliamentarians, are asking us to exclude Ilya Lichtarov from the list of candidates for this commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u187	The national deputy Yavorowski. Please make an offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u188	Vladimir Yavorowski, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. Dear colleagues, I led the first Chernobyl disaster commission. [[It wasn't a committee at the time. It was a commission.]] He organized this commission, and I know very well the events of that time. The lanterns that were mentioned here were really an odilator who was constantly acting, let's say, in the floor there was playing with power there and so forth. And he really is the author of this totally criminal 100-ber system. Once The construction of Slavotica on the radioactive spot that it took sucked into the budget’s colossal cost! Believe me, there is no politics. But it's just immoral today. Protests by many scientists, I have a bunch of these letters. He will remove the Lighthouse, and we are ready to vote in full for this commission, professional.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u189	No more offers? The proposals of the national deputies Ariev and Yavorowski for the removal from the list of names proposed by the commission put the candidates Lichtarov Ili Aronović to a vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:26:49]] For-191 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I put to the vote the entire draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Order on the Number and Composition of the National Commission on Radiation Protection of the People of Ukraine. [[Registration number 5451]] I'd like to make a statement. [[13:27:25]] For 323 Decision taken. Order approved. Dear colleagues, next question is the agenda. We have to include in the agenda of the day session and consider the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on excise duty rates and import duties for certain goods. [[Registration number 5285]] The author of the legislative initiative is National Deputy Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich. Please report to Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin. The Microphone of the People's Deputy Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u190	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies! I ask you to move the matter to another day in view of the need for further preparation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u191	As I understand the initiator, we should not now include in the agenda of the day session, i.e. there is a desire that we do not include or consider. Do I understand you correctly? Is there any objection that we should not consider involving ourselves in this matter? Is there a denial?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u192	There's no objection. This question is referred to later for consideration. A draft Regulation on Information from the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine and the Ministry of Internal Affairs on the activities of law enforcement authorities in connection with the recent dissemination of media reports on the commission of criminal acts against sexual freedom and the sexual integrity of minors is under consideration. [[Registration number 5273]] I'm voting on the proposal to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. Please be sure. [[13:29:50]] For 318 Decision taken. Included in the agenda of the day session. Please report to Vladimir Leonidovich Sovkovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u193	Dear colleagues, on October 20, 2009, the Supreme Council of Ukraine heard information from the Office of the Prosecutor-General of Ukraine, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, and the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine on the activities of law enforcement agencies in the area of sexual freedom and sexual immunity of minors. The information provided shows that it is ineffective, and in some cases it is illegal for officials to exercise their authority to protect the constitutional rights of children. Such crimes are especially painful when the victims are underage. The return of such children to a normal life is a very difficult matter for a whole range of experts — doctors, psychologists, and others. And these efforts do not always have a positive effect. During the first half of this year, 382 criminal cases under article 152 were referred to the courts by the Ministry of Justice, including rape of minors, and 327 sexual cases. Sexual passion in an unnatural way, 27 on sexual relations that have not reached maturity and 131 on the right hand side is 156 articles, the depravity of minors. In general, statements from the Ministry of Internal Affairs on these issues were made in just one year, the current year, about 10,000 grand. That's a pretty big number. Thus directed against minors, the deviant behavior of sexual nature, whose extreme form is paedophilia, is unfortunately becoming widespread. The adoption of the draft decision will allow for a full comprehensive study of the issue, which is of great social interest in and outside Ukraine, as well as a set of measures to protect children's rights and on the basis of information received, then amend the relevant legislative acts and regulations with a view to ensuring the constitutional rights of Ukrainian citizens in practice. It is proposed that the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Ministry of the United States in the matter of the family be considered insufficient.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u194	Please finish for two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u195	Thank you. From the questions noted and to listen to the report of these government authorities on the measures taken. Please support this decision. I would also like to say that the main purpose of the decision is to implement the Supreme Council of Supervisory and Other Powers provided for in the Constitution of Ukraine. In principle, we had to sign a similar decree as decree by the President of Ukraine. Sadly, though, nothing was signed at that time. So as the Supreme Council, I think we should vote today for this decision and set up all the power structures that should provide us with information and see how they work.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u196	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Is there a need to discuss? Let's sign up for a discussion. People's MP Prokopchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u197	Prokopchuk Yuri, “Blok Timoshenko”. I want to say that we really need to support this decision, and we need to put the order in this area as well. But to my conviction, to blame only one organ of the IMF or any other, including, for example, everyone on the side, first of all, and the prosecution, and so on. So we really need to make the decision and the role of every force structure and organization that takes care of children. Even today, those who are to care for the fatherless often take care of themselves. And some of those children, including adoptions, are also the problem, 15,000 are being exported abroad, and that needs to be addressed. I think there's going to be a committee meeting today and we're going to give it a proper assessment. In general, the decision needs to be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u198	People's MP Mironenko is handing over the right to speak to the national deputy Kolesnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u199	Dear colleagues! What the previous speaker had said was fortunately included in the draft regulation and the draft regulation included all areas of possible control over the lives of young children so that we could clearly understand what was going on in the State. Unfortunately, however, it became known for what. This is what we have been preparing, from the statement made by Deputy Omelchenko, that the Office of the Prosecutor is blocking a well-known scandalous case involving senior officials. Moreover, as a result of the transfer of the Crimea secret intelligence case to and from the Artecian of the materials and in this criminal case, it was strangely transferred by the train conductor and naturally lost, as were two suspended criminal cases. Here is the problem for our State, where the issues dealt with by the Ministry of Internal Affairs and trying to block the progress of the investigation of a well-known criminal case. For this reason, I think it's a very strong order, which should have been made a few years ago. Today, Ukraine is the number two country in the world for sale of children's video, porn products. Today, Ukraine is a country of child sex tourism, today almost a very large proportion of our teens 10, 12, 15 years of age are involved in child prostitution, thus serving their parents because parents do not have the means to live. That's one moral side. The second moral aspect is that the State sees and cannot provide for parents or protect the lives of children. That is why this draft regulation is necessary to enable us to finally analyse what is going on in the country, to adopt relevant legislation and finally to ask whether we will develop whether we will have 50 million people, or whether the country will die out as European experts have foretold. I call on the faction of the Party of the Regions to support this decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u200	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u201	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that where we write in the recommendations to the General Prosecutor's Office of Ukraine, paragraph three, according to detained materials and conclusions, we offer proposals to improve the existing system and activities and continue to write “only the IMF”. What, though, is needed to improve the activities of the prosecutor’s office? He needs it. What, though, is not needed by the U.S.S.S.A.? He needs it. And what tax police do need. All those who have a fast-track search apparatus, a tracking device, all of these units have to be improved, because there is a question of bringing the guilty to justice. Nothing as corrupting as impunity for the conduct of legislation. On another occasion, I wanted to stress the impunity for drawing officials to criminal responsibility in the Crimea. In particular, I would like to point out that although the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine has revoked a number of decisions by the Prosecutor's Office of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, they have not been investigated until now. The Simferopol City Council, head of the Simferopol Mesquikonka case, deputy head of the Simferopol region, is not being investigated. Why? Because it's blocking the reconciliation of cards with the Attorney General's Office of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. We have been wrongly spelled out in this decree what we recommend to the Supreme Court of Ukraine. I believe that this paragraph 9 should be correctly written, to ask the Supreme Court of Ukraine to hold or consider the possibility of holding a plenary of the Supreme Court of Ukraine on this matter. And we are meant to “recommend, ” we do not have the right to do so in accordance with the Constitution. So I'd like to ask for these amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u202	Dear colleagues, the discussion is concluded, and I am putting to the vote the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on information from the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine and the Ministry of Internal Affairs on the activities of law enforcement authorities in connection with the recent dissemination of media reports on the commission of criminal acts against sexual freedom and the sexual integrity of minors. [[Registration number 5273]] I'd like to make a statement. [[13:39:20]] For 367 Decision taken. Are there any suggestions for the text of the draft regulation? There are no suggestions. I'll bet. Please, the microphone, the People's Deputy of Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u203	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! In my speech, I have already said the proposal to paragraph 1 of paragraph 3 after or before the word “IMS” to add the words “prosecutors, the Ukrainian Security Service” in paragraph 1 of the proposal. In paragraph 9, instead of the name “recommend to the Supreme Court of Ukraine”, to write: “to address the Supreme Court of Ukraine with a request to hold the Plenary of the Supreme Court” will correspond to the constitutional position and role of the Supreme Court, not to recommendations. We do not have the right to write, to accept mandatory recommendations. We can adopt the law, then the law is binding on the Supreme Court. This is my offer to point nine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u204	Thank you. The National Deputy Carmazin made proposals to paragraph 9 instead of the word “recommend” – to write “to turn” and in the first paragraph in the third part after the “Ministry of Internal Affairs” add “the Ukrainian Prosecutor’s Office and the Security Service, and the authorities that are able to carry out the search and search activities. I'm asking for a vote, please. [[13:41:13]] For 311 Offer supported. Any more suggestions? Please, National Deputy Smitsch.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u205	Ladies and gentlemen, if you look at the name of this Order, it shows that the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, has been involved in the activities of law enforcement authorities in connection with the recent proliferation of media reports on crime and crime. And why don't we ask this question so that we can hear the questions about the distribution in the media of such crimes by distributing child pornography and other crimes in this part. Why don't you put it, how and what the prosecution does in this regard. That is why I propose that not only “crimes” but also “the spread of child pornography” be recorded in this regulation.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u206	Which part, which point? Please, Mr. Smith's MP's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u207	In the very title of the decree, I propose following the words “expanding recently in the media reports of crime. criminal acts against sexual freedom and sexual inviolability” should be added with the words “and distribution of such”.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u208	I got the offer. The proposal of the national MP, Smittuh, is based on the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:42:54]] For 252 Offer supported. Can I put it all together? I'm betting on the whole draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Registration number 5273]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:43:21]] For 326 In general, the Order was passed. A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on concessionaire rights is being announced for consideration. Registration number 4674. Reported Deputy Minister of Economics Zyjelova Mikhailo Aleksandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u209	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies! Ukraine's draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts has been developed to strengthen State guarantees for concessionaires' rights. [[on the rights of concessionaires]] The bill amends Ukraine's Land Code and Ukraine's “On Concessions” Act, particularly the State guarantees compliance with the conditions laid down by legislation for the conduct of concessionaires' activities related to the implementation of concession contracts, the protection of their rights and legitimate interests. The changes to legislation should not aggravate the conditions for concessionaires to conduct projects under conceptual conditions. A special feature of the draft act is that, if necessary, land areas are provided for concessionaires, along with the subject of a concession from state or municipal property on lease terms in accordance with the Ukrainian Land Code. The right of ownership of land is acquired by the concessionaire in accordance with legislation. Please support this law. If there are no comments from the national deputies, please accept it as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u210	Correspondence from the committee, National Deputy Voropeyev Yuri Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u211	Good afternoon, distinguished colleagues. This bill was considered by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Economic Policy on 9 September this year. By unanimous decision, the Committee recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt it on first reading. I draw your attention to the following. There was a suggestion that it should not only be accepted as a basis, but also as a whole. I don't think we can generally accept it right now. Note, we are amending, by one amendment to the law, the Ukrainian Land Code to an article that provides for the sale of land without competition. And the concessionaire does not take land for life; he takes a certain period of time, so it will be necessary to amend it and grant concessions, outside the competition, to obtain land for some time. Therefore, once again, the Committee, on that basis, recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine unanimously accept it as a basis. In order to further develop and adopt it in general later.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u212	Thank you. Is there a need to discuss? There's no need for that. Is it? Please sign in. Please. The national deputy Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u213	Vladimir Yavorowski, "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko", city of Kirovograd. Dear colleagues! We have the movement that we're talking about today, actually almost at this point of freezing. We almost feel no concessionaires coming to Ukraine, for example, and on civilized, normal conditions, we have invested our energy, our intelligence, for example, in our industries, agrarian objects, and so forth. And I'm convinced that in many countries, and obviously we both need to think about it, both our government and the Supreme Council, that if we regulate properly, let's say, tax payments, if we properly regulate the use of, let's say, our objects, or industrial objects, or land objects, to adjust and put certain tasks in front of concessionaires, and they have to do these tasks, it would be very important. And it's a good thing we came back to that question today. First of all, this bill is obviously going to make a difference. Because he liberalizes the activities of concessionaires in Ukrainian territory and the Ukrainian state. Because of that Yulia Timoshenko block, he's going to vote in favour of this bill. Moreover, this project is governmental. It was brought by the Ukrainian government.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u214	The draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on concessionaire rights is put to the vote in the first reading. [[Registration number 4674]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:48:33]] For 269 Decision taken. Since the committee already denies acceptance as a whole, please work on the second reading. The draft Act approving the National Cancer Programme for the period up to 2016 is announced for consideration. [[Registration number 4605]] First Deputy Health Minister Lazaresinz Vasil Vasilovich reports. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u215	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies, the distinguished ones present! Filthy innovations are one of the most important problems not only in Ukraine but also around the world. We have a flight rate of 30.7 percent by the year, while in the leading countries of Europe it is only 20 percent, the mortality from malignant neoplasms exceeds the European level, the survival rate of five years, which is very important, is only 45 percent, while in Europe it is 64 percent. Thus, a draft Ukrainian law was developed as a working group of the Ministry of Health to execute the President’s decree and the decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers. Unfortunately, in two years it fell from 7 billion 431 billion to 3 billion 756 -- until 2016. The program provides for early detection of malignant tumors, screening programs, completion of treatment-prevention and oncological networks of Mamological Offices, completion of treatment-oncological offices on the pathology of the cervix and provision of treatment-diagnostic equipment, medical devices, provision of regional cancer dispensers with mobile mamological complexes, and involvement of state broadcasters. The program will reduce neglect by 5-10 per cent, increase early diagnosis by 10 per cent, reduce mortality rates from malignant self-inflicted diseases by 5-10 per cent, provide effective social support to cancer patients, improve the material and technical base of facilities that assist cancer patients. MOH Ukraine asks the National Deputies of the Supreme Council to support the draft Law on National Cancer Programmes until 2016. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u216	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Is there a need to discuss? Is there a need? Please log in. People's Party, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u217	Evening, Party of Regions. Honourable People's Deputies, distinguished Ukrainian people! Today we must adopt a bill to combat cancers until 2016. Regrettably, the Deputy Minister spoke, but I never heard how much money is needed from the budget, how much money is needed from outside the budgets, how will the programme be financed from other funds, from other financial institutions that are now ready to support Ukraine, Ukrainian clinics in the fight against cancer? Today, this topic is most relevant. We have survived Chernobyl, and today the incidence of cancer in Ukraine is much higher than the average CIS countries and the European Community. That's why I'd like to. Of course, this programme must be supported by the Ministry of Health, on the basis and with great responsibility and responsibility, of approaching this programme, this targeted programme to combat cancers. Of course, the Party of the Regions will support this bill, and we will vote. But I ask you, Alexander Vladimirovic, as First Vice-President of the Supreme Council, to address this issue responsibly and to appoint experts to supplement it, may I reiterate from what budget will this programme be financed, from which extrabudgetary resources will the programme be financed? What financial institutions of Ukraine, the European Community and the world will support this fight against cancer? And this program needs to be adopted so that it is not ashamed of the Ukrainian people. Thank you for your attention. The Party of the Regions will support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u218	Yavorovsky Volodymyr Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u219	Vladimir Yavorowski, "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko", Kirovograd. Dear colleagues, this is usually about the most fearsome young man of the 20th and 21st centuries, a disease that in fact leaves little chance for man. I say, it leaves little chance, because there are only isolated cases where a person can "jump" out of these scary ticks. I was, like, a few days ago, holding a press conference and speaking at the Kirovograd district cancer center, which the government has allocated 11 million this year to resupply, but unfortunately, it's really a drop in the sea compared to the human grief that we have in Ukraine today. Fortunately, our Ukraine today is not completely retarded in this respect, because we have an Israeli center in Pluto right here under Kiev oncology, which gives a lot of positive results, we have another center in Lutuža -- a woman's gland, we have the Spazhenka Center, which treats the prostate, and so on. Clearly, then, there is no doubt that such a program is needed. Unfortunately, all we talk about today is ideology itself and good intentions. Because of this, Yulia Timoshenko will support, vote in favour of this program, but on one condition, the Ministry of Health will work on it. Indeed, we need very precise lectures, we need very accurate calculations and personnel, and we need equipment, because if we think about the health of the nation, and if even some of our presidential candidates promise to increase the number of nations to 50 million, we obviously need to think about what we really need in Ukraine. [[I don't know where they're going to get that much - they promise.]] We'll support her.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u220	Gordijenko Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u221	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. I signed up against it, but the faction and I will support the first reading of this national program. This is a huge problem today in Ukraine. It's the trouble of all the Ukrainian people. But the trouble that I signed up for and I'm paying attention to the health department, is that we still need to write in that program to take away those fights that are being held in the cancer centers when our people get there. You know, there's nothing free anymore, even though we predict in our programs that a lot of government will take on to help a person. But all that doctors do is, unfortunately, speculate on man’s most difficult problem today. A person who looks to a large extent there, far away, beyond eternity, and is at every turn in the oncological dispensaries — pay for it, give it. And if you don't have a man, because he doesn't have a job, he doesn't have any assets today, they say: “And think: If you don’t give us what you will have and what you will receive from this therapy.” That's why we all have to, we're against what happens to doctors over people who just lose their way.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u222	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u223	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, there are two ways out. The first option is to wait for the funding to be sufficient. And the second way out is to take the first reading, the second reading, and the second reading of the program right now, so that it's already starting to act as a law. Why? Because you and I are going to meet in this room only on January 19th. I, thanks to the Party of the Regions, which is so afraid of the “Migiri” decision-making, because they have solved problems for themselves, their boss at least, thank them also for violating the rights of our electorates, because we cannot announce our parliamentary requests on Friday, and this is the rights of the huge groups, this is the appeal that they have made to me now, from Mikolayev about what is done there at the port, this is a call from Odessa, this is a call from Lviv and so on, this is the rights of the people. This is Kharkiv Cancer Center, where supermedicals, but no equipment, are going down. In the last five years, no amount has been given to repair the premises. Is that normal? So, ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask you, what do we need to hear from the Ministry of Health, see the program on ICT and not react criminally? Tell the minister these things are put in jail. The drug “Ukraine” is supposed to treat Ukrainians, and we have the director of the Cancer Institute reporting: “We have not considered it, it has not come to us.” Why do we have such an institution? Why do we finance it? This is a criminal attitude toward the performance of my duties, I believe, in relation to the 200,000 who may be ill. I've come across this grief, and I know what it is, and I think what's happening at the Cancer Institute, at the MOH, in the fight against oncology is propaganda. The propaganda is written in this program, but it should be accepted in general and then demanded in January.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u224	I continue for 15 minutes in the morning plenary. An unrecorded faction, one minute, the Zarubinsky Oleg Aleksandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u225	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich, but I didn't sign up, so one minute. Dear colleagues, I think that the issue of the National Anti-Oncosis Programme is a general issue that concerns all millions of our citizens. Because the question is not just that he's sick, but the question is that there's a certain phobia and you understand very well how this phobia converts often into disease. In this regard, I look at the explanatory note and the forecast of its results, saying that the adoption of the program will reduce the disease of some localizations, provide available free medical care for cancer patients. With all this I can agree, but I, my honourable colleagues, would like to say that adoption should not conflict with the adoption of specific laws that are already in the Supreme Council. [[Obviously, we're going to accept this program.]] In particular, on the first reading, we voted in favour of the draft law on the treatment of foretaste and breast cancer.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u226	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u227	He is on the Health Committee. He's been there a long time. I think that in parallel with the adoption of this program by 2016, we have to make those advances, and they're the right ones, which are the Supreme Council. I call on both the profile committee and my colleague to support the bill on the treatment of foreread and breast cancer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u228	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm paying attention to you. I'll read the entire text of the law. “Approve the National Cancer Programme for the period up to 2016.” What can we consider in the second reading of this law? When it comes to the program, the program prepares and gives us the Cabinet of Ministers that we approve. That's why I'm voting. Dear colleagues, I'll put it to a vote. There are MPs who think it's wrong. I'm voting on the basis of the draft Law approving the National Cancer Programme for the period up to 2016, registration number 4605. I'd like to make a statement. [[2:02:34]] For 297 Once again, my dear colleagues, it's not about the draft law, which is set out as a program. The law approves the program. Just as we approve the Constitution of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Because those who want to work with the text of the program need to do so with the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. We're not gonna run the program here. National MP Klukkowski, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u229	Thank you. Yuri Klukkowski, “Our Ukraine”. I'm very interested in listening to this interpretation of our actions. If you also point to an article in the Constitution that says that the Supreme Council accepts an act, a part of which is accepted by another organ, I will be very grateful. And now I want to ask you. If we approve of this program, who, as it were, approved the program, who is responsible? The Cabinet of Ministers, or the Supreme Council, if it's approved by law? You have a parallel with the Constitution of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, but this is described in the Constitution, a special procedure when the Constitution is adopted by the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and then approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And please tell me, what standard of the Constitution says that the program is accepted by the Cabinet of Ministers and is now an act, and then only the law is approved? So in this case, we have an integral part of the law, what it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u230	Dear colleagues! Does anyone object to the adoption of this law as a whole? No, it's not. I'm betting on voting in general, the draft law on the approval of the National Cancer Programme until 2016. Registration number 4605. I'd like to make up my mind. [[14:04:43]] For 298 In general, the law has been passed. A draft law on the volunteer movement is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 4345]] Deputy Justice Minister Bogusz Natalija Vladislavna reports. Dear colleagues! I announced a 15-minute extension earlier. If we don't get there, we'll be looking at next plenary week.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u231	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! For your consideration, we propose the Law on Volunteering, which is called upon to normalize the issue of volunteering, volunteering organizations, providing services to volunteers and supporting the development of volunteerism in Ukraine. The draft law defines the organizational and legal principles of volunteering, volunteering in Ukraine, and, in particular, the basic orientations of volunteering, the forms of their state support by providing legal, organizational, methodical, informational assistance to volunteers and volunteer organizations. According to the bill, volunteering is proposed to recognize any social, social, non-profit, and motivated volunteering activities that are carried out through work, to provide services to the recipient of volunteer aid. Not volunteering is a socially beneficial nonprofit activity that has a one - time chance or is based on family or friendship. Ukraine’s social services and social work laws with families, children, and young people have partially defined some of the issues of volunteering in social services for families and children and young people. However, the absence of a single legislative act on volunteerism poses significant challenges to its further development. In Ukraine volunteering is one of the most effective forms of aid to different types of population. It is the source of the necessary knowledge and skills, and order with it enables a person to realize himself in the service of society. It should also be stressed that the adoption of the law will facilitate the holding of the final part of the 2012 European Football Championship in Ukraine. During the preparation and conduct of the project, volunteers are invited to participate actively. It also allows us to separate the activities of member charities and charities, and we ask for support on the basis of this project.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u232	Thank you. Have a seat, please. National Deputy Jereshko Igor Henadiovich None. The singer of the national deputy, Shishkina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u233	The honourable chairman, honourable national deputies, is proposing a draft law specifically on volunteering in Ukraine, which is an alternative to the government's law on volunteering. In recent years volunteering in Ukraine has been actively developing and the number of organizations involved in this field has increased significantly. The impact of volunteerism on social life is increasing, and its role as an important institution of civil society is increasing. More and more steps are being taken in Ukraine, including the state-wide, successful implementation of which will require the involvement of volunteers, particularly the Euro-2012. That is why it was necessary to regulate volunteering at the legislative level through the adoption of the law. The draft law presented for your consideration defines volunteering as a socially targeted charity, non-profit, motivated social and useful activity carried out by volunteers and volunteer organizations through the delivery of work and services to citizens, organizations and society as a whole. The difference between the bill and the government bill is that it introduces, firstly, the most simplified and transparent conditions for the order and requirements of volunteering, while avoiding the necessary regulation and excessive interference of public authorities with the activity. In particular, there is the simplest possible order of volunteering, all that is required of a person wishing to obtain this status, is to submit a written application to a volunteer organization that has to consider it, and by completing the application, to issue a volunteer certificate to a person. In contrast with the government’s alternative project, a detailed list of the main orientations of volunteering is defined. An article in the proposed bill prescribes restrictions on volunteering. Another advantage, according to the authors of this bill, is the precise definition of the rights and duties of volunteers, volunteer organizations, and recipients. purchasers, excuse me, volunteer aid. In particular, the draft law provides guarantees for volunteers in terms of their social protection, such as counting the time of volunteering into the teaching and manufacturing practice or the general work experience in the case of their implementation in a direct manner that corresponds to the acquired specialty, the insurance of volunteers involved in the provision of volunteer assistance.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u234	Thank you, everyone. Thank you, sit down, please. Is there a need to discuss? There is a need, please register. Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u235	Dear colleagues! Dear voters! We are now considering a bill that is the author of, including the Cabinet of Ministers, without which. and with whom one can live and without whom one can live. Regrettably, it is unfortunate that the Cabinet of Ministers, when adopting the draft bill, clearly considered it under all procedures first on a government committee, then at a government meeting, then signed the prime minister, and it was clear that he was not born in government structures. The author of the bill, but the government, according to the text of the bill, had nothing to do with it except that he signed it. Because the bill is written about nothing. The bill, it's not a law, it's a program, software statements, slogans and so on and so forth. So I reiterate that, unfortunately, sometimes they come to us from the subject of the legislative initiative, which is, including under the Constitution, the government, the legislative initiatives to which the government, judging by the drafts, of the texts of the law, has no bearing whatsoever on what someone has established, wrote it in the form of a declaration, suggested, sorry for such a non-parliamentary expression, the government, and he sent us, as a draft law. Since there is a certain procedure, since there is something really needed to improve, let us certainly accept it in the first reading, but only in the first reading. Let the committee work seriously to make it not like the proclamations and declarations, but to make it really similar to the law that would prescribe those or other standards. If there is no law, no fear, volunteer organizations, like any voluntary organization, have every reason to be governed by the Law on Public Organizations, there is absolutely no difference between them.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u236	Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u237	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, despite the fact that the word “voluntary” is imported, foreign-speaking, the very essence of volunteering is absolutely humane, humanitarian and obviously useful. Therefore, the Law on the Volunteer Movement itself obviously has the right to exist, there is nothing wrong with it, although in principle, the Law on the Uniting of Citizens, however covered, is a little larger than the extent of the regulation of relations. But I took the word for just one, and I won't use it all the time to say that in general it's not acceptable. There's a conclusion that there's a solid enough expertise and I'm not going to play it or interpret it. I'm just going to say the position that I agree with on this conclusion of Science and Technology. It should also be noted that the project follows the trend towards regulating volunteering as a principle: it allows for what is prescribed by law. Although another principle should be applied to the organizations concerned: Anything that is not prohibited by law is permitted. I think it's a very important position, because where it comes from volunteering, it's about volunteering, it's about volunteering, it's about being able to do everything that's not forbidden by law, it's about being able to do anything, not in a cross-breeding bed of law, where it's impossible to write everything down. So I have a proposal to support the idea by voting as a basis, but it still needs to be worked very seriously to prepare for the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-23-m0.u238	I'm betting on a vote on adoption on the basis of the draft law on volunteer movement. [[Registration number 4345]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[14:14:56]] For 208 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on the draft Law 4345-1 on volunteer movement on a basis. I'd like to make a statement. [[14:15:24]] For-195 The decision is not taken. Bills are rejected. Dear colleagues, we are about to conclude the last scheduled plenary session of this difficult country and not just for the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the year. I wish all the citizens of Ukraine and separately to you, my colleagues, the successful next year, the warmth, the abundance in your home. The next scheduled plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will begin at 10 a.m. on Tuesday, January 19, 2010. The morning plenary session is closed.
