ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u1	Good morning, colleagues and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! On December 17, 2009, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Secretary of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations, joined the deputy faction of the "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" bloc, Ivan Vasilovich Spudarenko. Please honor our colleague’s memory by a moment of silence. [[A Minute of Silence]] Please sit down. Please enable the "Council" system. [[10:02:07]] There are 416 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The morning plenary session is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the National Deputy of Ukraine Komara Mikoli Stepanović. We wish him good health, recovery, and good results in our parliamentary activities. Information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at plenary meetings on December 17, 2009. Sixteen questions of the agenda have been considered. As a result of their consideration, 7 laws and 4 decrees were passed, 2 bills were adopted on a basis, 3 draft decrees were rejected. Reports from eight temporary commissions have been considered. In accordance with article 25 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, we today need to have requests from Ukrainian national deputies. Requests were received from Ukrainian national deputies, a group of Ukrainian national deputies: KARMAZIN, JAVORIJSKI, SeminoGA to the President of Ukraine on the urgent need for Victor Yushchenk, President of Ukraine, who is personally responsible for the damage suffered by citizens and the Ukrainian banking system, the submission to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for discharge from the post of Head of the National Bank of Ukraine, Vladimir Stelmak, in connection with the completion of the term of office. The vote is supported by a request from Ukrainian national deputies. [[10:04:06]] For 135 Request not supported. Valeria BEVZA to the President of Ukraine regarding the inadmissibility of being head of the Brussels District State Administration of the Gitomir Region of Viktor Grebenik in connection with the abuse of his office and the seizure of land that resulted in numerous violations of the constitutional rights of citizens of the Brusillo region. I'd like to vote in favour of Valery Bezz's parliamentary request. [[10:04:47]] For 175 Request supported. I would like to put to the vote the question of sending a request from the people of Behiz to the President of Ukraine. I'd like to make up my mind. [[10:05:08]] For-166 The decision is not taken. The request is not sent. Victor SINCHENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, on the improper response of the law enforcement authorities of the Baroque region of Vinnitsk to the unlawful actions of the State Executive Service of the Baroque District Administration regarding the return of property of the Yaltuskow Research Station of the Institute of Sugar Storms of the Ukrainian Academy of Agrarian Sciences. Vladimir MATWEYEVA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the consideration of a protest by the Attorney General of Ukraine to order the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine from 25 August 2004 to open a crossing point across the state border in the Society's overload terminal with limited responsibility for the Nibulon Farm Company. Ukraine's Attorney General of Ukraine on the need for President Viktor Yushchenko to stop the abuse of his constitutional duties, and considering that he has a personal responsibility for damage to citizens and Ukraine's banking system, to direct the submission to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for discharge from the post of Head of the National Bank of Ukraine, Vladimir Stelmama in connection with the completion of the five-year term of office for which he was elected, since those losses under the control of Volodymyr of the Ukraine's civil government, the subordination of the Ukrainian state of Ukraine and its citizens in the form of the instability of the U.S. Vassila HARA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the insufficient financing and restoration of the spiritual Ukrainian shrine of the Shevchenkov National Reserve in Canev. Victor KORJA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the complex financial and economic situation of the state-owned enterprise "Harkowska. Hennady ZADIRKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the failure to implement the decisions of the Ministry of Transport and the liaison of Ukraine regarding the design and construction of a bridge crossing across the South Bug River in the city of Mikolayev. GREGORY to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the publication in the newspaper of the Voice of Ukraine and the Government courier of official information on production, distribution, balance and oil and gas prices in Ukraine. GREGORY to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the allocation of funds for the creation, development and modernization of laboratory immunological services. Edouard PRUTNIK to First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, First Deputy Minister of Transport and Communications of Ukraine, First Deputy Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Head of the State Road Service of Ukraine, Chief of Road Traffic Service in Chernigiv region, on the appeal of a number of village heads of the Chernigiv region on the need for urgent action to repair the road of Korukovka Šishkovka, who is in a state of emergency for a long time. Edouard PRUTNIK to First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, First Deputy Minister of Transport and Communications of Ukraine, First Deputy Minister of Finance of Ukraine, First Deputy Director of the State Administration of Rail Transport of Ukraine, Deputy Head of the Chernigian District Administration for the address of the head of the Soviet Council of Anatolia the Great for the sake of more than five thousand residents of the village of Chernigiv district for the transfer of the passenger platform "Jachnivka" to the railway race of the Galka Valley and the construction of the new platform for thirty-second kilometres. Eugene ZARJKOVA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the movement of electricity in the city of Prevalsk Lugansk. Igora SHAROVA to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to suspend the construction of a steel plant in the Biotzerkow region of Kiev before confirming the legality of the construction and conducting an environmental analysis of the consequences of the operation of an enterprise for the environment. Leonida LITWINOVA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the verification of the non-compliant quality of coal obtained free of charge on the basis of the Ukrainian Mining Code. MICHELLA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on a situation that has arisen in connection with attempts to destabilize the work of the Dnipropetrovskgas Open Stock Company, which threatens the security of gas supply in the Dnipropetrovsk region. MICHELLE RUDEN to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the payment by the Agrarian Fund of 60 per cent of the cost of living on land to farmers in the Žitomir region. Mr. Mikoli Sherschun to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on debt repayment from the state budget to the Society with limited responsibility "Specialized moveable mechanized column No. 8" located in the city of Zbarz, Ternopil district, for construction work done. OLEGO ZARUBINSKI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the inadequacy of being held in public authorities and the local self-government of persons found guilty of corruption by the court. Oleg ZARUBINSKI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the restoration of the social guarantees established by Ukraine's laws to Ukrainian military, war veterans, participants in the liquidation of the Chernobyl AES accident and military pensioners. Alexia KOSTUSEVA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Housing of Ukraine, Odessa City Head, on the actions of the Odessa City Authority, which threatened the safety of the residents of House No. 73 on the street of Prochorovska. SERGEANT GORDIENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for ignoring the executive authorities of the Ukraine Act on Social Protection of Children of War, the need for a mandatory provision in the 2010 State Budget of Ukraine for the full implementation of the bill and the repayment of the debt owed to this category of citizens in the years 2006-2009. Group of National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on ending the abuse of people who need to be wound up with ball joints and endothelial purchases at the expense of the Ukraine State Budget in 2009. [[COMARA, CHECHOVOVA, YANUKOVIČA]] Group of National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the financing of the first line of the construction of the Kurenov-Red Army metropolis in Kiev, towards the Teremka Massive from the Libedska station to the new Vasilkowska Station on the basis of article 76 of the Ukrainian State Budget for 2009 and the Ukrainian Cabinet Decisions of February 11, 2009, No. 271. [[THE black woman, Borisova, and others. Total 9 deputies]] Mr. Mikoli Komara and Mr. Michael Checheva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the issue of the payment of pensions, taking into account the changes of 11 November 2009, according to the collective appeals made by pensioners in the region of Czernigów and other Ukrainian citizens. Mr. Andria PAWLOWS to the Minister for Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for obstructing the election process in Kiev by the employees of the Kyiv-Kyiv-Kyiv-Kyiv-Kyiv-Kyiv-Kyiv-Kyiv-Kyiv-Kyiv-Kyiv-Kyiv-Kyiv-Kyiv-Kyiv. Valeria BARANOVA to the Minister of Fuel and Energy of Ukraine on the groundless disconnection from the energy supply of members of the Green Gardens Corporation in Berdjansk. Vassila GREECEA to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the illegal activity of the State Enterprise Document as part of the illegal structure of the State Migration Service of Ukraine. Ms. Alexander CRONOVOLENKA to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine for the establishment of a civil status between the citizens of Anatoly Shemczuk and Maria Shemczuk. Victoria DEMJANČUK to the first Deputy Minister for Internal Affairs of Ukraine, U.S. Attorney General of Ukraine, on the need to be brought to criminal responsibility by Mikla Onichuka in connection with his criminal activities aimed at the acquisition of immovable property in the village of the town of Foros, the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Vladimir YAVORISKI to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the criminal activity of the State Enterprise "Cyrovogradian Juice Extract Plant", which has long been releasing liquor products of the Artemis brand, using illegal alcohol and not paying taxes to the State budget of Ukraine. Igor KALETNIKA to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Ukraine’s First Deputy Minister of Interior, Ukraine’s Attorney - General of Ukraine on the need to bring criminal responsibility to Kiev’s urban head, Leonid Czernovecki, and other officials of the Kyiv City Council, her executive body in connection with their criminal activities aimed at illegal alienation of the land. Igora SHAROVA to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the facts of administrative pressure on the Pantelemónian village head of Gorlovka Donetské region, obstacles to the performance of his duties and persecution of him for political reasons. Mr. Alexander CERNOMOROVA to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine, concerning the illegal allocation of forest land within the administrative boundaries of the Lebedov Rural Council of the Vishgrad Region. Alexander ŠEPELEVA to Zaporez's City Head on the urgent use of measures to pay off the arrears of the employees of Mostobud. Alexander ŠEPELEVA to the Ministry of Environmental Protection of Ukraine on the use of measures to prevent an environmental disaster in the Dnipropetrovsk region. Alexia KOSTUSEVA to the Minister for Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Odessa City Head on the adoption by the executive committee of the Odessa City Council of an unlawful decision No. 978 of August 22, 2007, which is contrary to the requirements of Ukrainian housing law, and the inaction of the law enforcement authorities of Odessa. Jury KRUKA to the Ministry of Environmental Protection of Ukraine on the use of appropriate measures when considering the application of the farm "East" of the Kointernov district of Odessa. LITHUANIA’S Jury to the Minister for Housing and Utilities of Ukraine, Head of the Dnipropetrov Regional Administration for Repayment of Remuneration on Wages for Workers of the former State Enterprise “Sofia Group Water Management” of the Apostolic Region of the Dnipropetrov region. LITHUANIA’S Jury to the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine on the desirability of separating the decisions of the Ministry of Science and Education of Ukraine on the cessation of the legal person of vocational and technical school No. 28 in the village of Budanov Terebovljana district of Ternopil.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u2	To the Attorney General of Ukraine on the need for a thorough study of the case of baseless psychological pressure and the legality of the actions of the officials of the Prosecutor's Office of the Vinicki District regarding the management of the agricultural open stock company "Sad of Ukraine" located in the village of Dmitrashkovka of the Pishtan district of Vinicki district. Victor KORJA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the payment of undergraduate scholarships in a number of educational institutions. Vladimir MATWEYEVA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the hidden privatization of the State Enterprise Mikolayev Sea Trade Port and the illegal seduction of the Company with limited liability of Port Ochakow State property. Vladimir PHILIPPEN to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of the systematic abuse by the local authorities of the city of Lviv and personally the city’s head, Andrey Sadov, published at the parliamentary hearings on December 2, 2009. Vladimir PILIPENKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the provision of a legitimate assessment of the free and criminal personnel policy of the Lviv city head Andrija Sadov and the management of the Lviv city utility “Lviteplenergo”, which has led to a critical situation on the enterprise in danger of stopping the heat supply of the city's residents in the winter era. Gregory OMELZENKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine about deliberate delay over the years by the heads of the Ukrainian Attorney General’s Office, with the completion of the criminal investigation into crimes committed by the former presidents of Ukraine and other state officials. Igora KALETNIKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the criminal responsibility of the judge of the Pecher District Court of Kiev, Sergio Vuka, in connection with his presence in his actions of the crime prescribed in article 375 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. Kirila KULIKOVA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the interference and obstruction of the legitimate activities of the Ukrainian National Deputy. Kirila KULIKOVA to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the non-inhibition of the activities of the Ukrainian National MP by officials of the Kyiv City Council and the immediate action taken by the Prosecutor’s Office regarding the cessation of violations of Ukrainian law on the status of the Ukrainian People’s Deputy. Marina PERESTENKO to the Attorney General of Ukraine on illegal interference, removal of the land certificates of former members of the Colosseum of the name of the twenty-second assembly of the KPRS of the Bahchisarai district of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, as well as the illegality of the actions of the agriculturally closed Agro-firma "Crime". Mikoli Sherschun to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the return of the Buzek farm, located in the village of Wilkhivci in the Zakarpatsky region of Zacarpathian region, to its respective lands. Mr. Paul Silent to the Attorney General of Ukraine about the illegal sale of the Shivo Bookstore in Kiev. Michael PAPIJEVA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the renewal of the legitimate rights of residents of the villages of Cremides, Sadka, Ozerce, Old Kinchaki, New Kinchaki Kinchakow village council of the Galicsk district of Johno-Frankiv region, which were violated by the illegal authorities of the local government. Mr. Alexander DONI to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the improper examination of the parliamentary appeal regarding the violation of the housing rights of residents of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine by the prosecutor of the city of Kiev, Eugene Blaživski. Mr. Alexander Skibinetzki to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the use of measures for the prosecution’s response to the wrong actions of the Zastavnov City Council of the Cherniewsky region, which resulted in the loss of citizens of residence. Helen LUKASH to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Kyiv City Head, for the annulment of the illegal decision of the Kyiv City Council, which included the Orlatko Children's Garden building in the list of objects of municipal property of the Kyiv territorial community that are subject to privatization. Petra PISTARCHUKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the delay in examining the claims made by residents of the village of Korchin in the district of Lviv in order to verify the decisions of the village council on land withdrawal. Petra PISTARCHUKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the protection of the rights and freedoms of private enterprises in the drug market in the town of Drogobic Lvivsk. GORDIENKA to the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Luben City Council of the Poltavian Region on the non-admission of the destruction of the municipal firm Lubnivodokal, violation of the rights of the labour force, consumers of services, legislation in changing the form of management of this facility, the need for a thorough examination of the decisions of the Luben City Council taken on this issue and contracts concluded to comply with Ukrainian legislation. SERGEY CRAPOVA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of the rights of retired workers in the recalculation of pensions in 2009. Groups of National Deputies to the Attorney General of Ukraine on systematic thefts in state-owned coal companies in the Luhansk region. [[TEENAGERS, REVAS, AND OTHERS]] To the head of the Kyiv City State Administration, Vladimir JAVORIYSK for the inactivity of the Kyiv City State Administration for the creation of the proper conditions for the functioning of the National Historical and Memorial Reserve of the Bikownian Tombs to honor the memory of the innocent victims of the political repression of the Communist Red Terror of 1937-1941. MICILI THOMEN to the Head of the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea for the restoration work of the Forest Museum of Ukraine in Yalta. OXANI BILOSIR to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister for Family, Youth and Sports, a senior Justice of Ukraine on urgent measures to protect the rights and legitimate interests of the minor father - in - law of Victoria Trophimova. OXANI BILOSIR to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on taking urgent action to stop the physical and moral abuse of investors in housing at: Kiev, the city of Opuchiv, Lermontova Street, 22 on the side of society with limited responsibility, Monolit Production and Construction Company, and attracting its leadership to criminal responsibility. [[Melitopolis, Zaporozhye Region]] In connection with the incomplete and unbiased investigation of Shevchenkovsky’s District Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in Kiev, a group of individuals involved in the alienation of the entire property complex are being investigated. Ms. KRUSENKA'S Sergei to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine regarding the criminal offence of fraud by a group of persons in connection with the acquisition of the entire property complex of the Open Shareholder Society Sinteco. Dear colleagues, the MPs have been asked. A statement has been made. “In accordance with paragraph 15 of the first part of article 27 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, please announce a recess for the consultations of the two MP factions — the factions of the Party of the Region and the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Is there a need for a recess or a statement of what, and for what reason?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u3	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! Dear radios and radios! All sociological surveys show the undeniable victory of opposition candidate Viktor Yanukovic in the election of the President of Ukraine. The voters haven't believed the orange characters of yesterday, and their time is gone. Frightened by the attitude of the people, the Prime Minister, the candidate for Presidential office, Yulia Timoshenko, understands that she can only hold back from power by lying to the people and by extensive falsifications. In doing so, it is still in the power to claim that the lie of the electorate is being prepared by the opposition. Only the existing executive power, which has a powerful administrative resource, can forge massive falsifications. In the hands of Timoshenko, the executive authorities, the loyal courts, the supervisory structures and the Ministry of Internal Affairs are in charge of the Minister of Finance, Lucenko. All of these are real tools of falsification. The extent of the crimes being committed is enormous, and the imagination of their organizers is boundless. For example, in the Chernigov region, the citizen of Šsek Aleksandr Sergeyevich, who lives in the town of Chernigov, at the Passage of Victory, house 191 square.90. 85 and others, representing the Regional Party's agitators, have fraudulently coerced more than 300 citizens into opening an account in the Bank of Cyprus allegedly to finance the electoral company Yanuković. The impostors who were convinced of their impunity, without hiding, placed their trust in the accounts of their Commissioner, Chernyev Maria Nikolayevna, who lives in Cherkassassa Street, Blagovesna Street, 127, in the office of the private notary, Petrova Svetlana Nikolayevna, at Kiev, Uricko Street, 45. This large-scale special operation was also carried out in the areas of Cherkas, Kirovograd, Herson and Kiev. The aim of the organizers is to provoke, accuse the Party of the Regions of violating the financing of the electoral campaign and then appeal through the courts to Januković's election victory. The forgers will rush in with the patronage of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and its leader, Lucenko. His high-ranking subordinates not only cover but also directly participate in the organization of falsifications. For example, on 11 December this year, a deputy minister at a meeting in Dnepropetrovsk presented to the heads of the internal affairs offices six areas of the east, south of Ukraine the task of providing electronic lists of 3 million voters, which would subsequently be excluded from the voter register. Thus, falsifiers expect to reduce the number of voters for Yanukovic. In order to monitor and influence the vote of the students of Kiev, the Minister of Education, Ivan Vakarczuk, gave an unspoken indication of the reduction of vacations, change and postponement of the winter session. Facts have already come to light when counterfeiters try to order duplicates.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u4	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u5	and district electoral commissions. The purpose of such manipulations is to distort the results of the vote in order to rob the Ukrainian people for another five years with impunity, to create arbitrary and lawlessness, to produce new slogans, paedophiles and corrupters. Under the fear of dismissal, the authorities force citizens working on the electoral commissions into the Ministry of Internal Affairs, budget organizations to take a criminal path and prepare for the falsification of voting. People need to know that it is not those who give oral orders that will go to court, but those who do them blindly. The Party of the Regions cautions all participants in the electoral process: do not succumb to the pressure of power, do not engage in falsifications. This authority has been marked by days, do not exchange your honour and freedom for money.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u6	Alexander Sergiyovich, please finish. Last sentence, because time is up.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u7	The Party of the Regions requests the Attorney-General of Ukraine, Medvedzko, President of the Board of Directors, to give a principled legal assessment of the acts of forgers of all ointments. We also call on OSCE observers, the international community and other international organizations in Ukraine to examine the facts.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u8	Alexander Sergiyovich, time is up!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u9	Give them an objective assessment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u10	Dear colleagues, we approved yesterday's decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the report of the Interim Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of violations by officials of the state administrations of the Kyiv region of the Constitution of Ukraine and the current legislation of Ukraine in the granting and processing of land rights. We have in our third paragraph a letter to the Cabinet of Ministers and the President of Ukraine regarding the arrival of the head of the Brovar district administration, Didenko Fedorovich, and the acting head of the Brovar district government administration, Darmogra Oleksija Ivanovic. The Chief Legal Authority provided copies of the relevant orders of the President of Ukraine and the Kyiv State Administration. These persons have already been released. It is therefore a request that we take into account when editing the draft decrees that there is no point in addressing them. Is there any objection? It won't. Dear colleagues, I received a request yesterday, signed. Dear colleagues, I respect you all and you will all be given your word, just don't try to run the session hall from there. [[B in m in s a l in]] My dear colleagues, yesterday I received a petition signed by the leaders of the five factions of Parliament to begin the consideration today of the issues on the schedule of meetings, of two draft laws relating to the restoration of the debtor’s ability to pay or recognition of his bankruptcy. [[In the case of mining companies]] For this reason, Kožemyakin Andriy Anatoliyovich asks. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u11	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters, representatives of the media! You have just heard a statement from the faction of the Party of the Regions that they already know who will be president of Ukraine. That's the first one. Secondly, I'd like to ask the chairman, along with his faction, to take a small test. If you don't want to be falsified, if you don't want to and you're struggling with what you just said in your statement, and you have reason to do so, please now put the President's Election Act under review, where we limit the possibility of forging and that will be the answer to that statement. And now, if you don't do it, then not us, as you blame us, but you want to fake it. Because you've been blocking this issue for two weeks. And yesterday we made a decision on his inclusion in the agenda, and you said that we didn't take him in order of the day, so you told the lie again, Mr. Lavrinovich. That's why I did if.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u12	Please don't scream in the hall. Please finish, Andriy Anatolyovich. Well, have one.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u13	So if you put this election bill on the agenda right now, I, our faction withdraws its signature under that bill that you just announced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u14	So if the signature is called off, we're not going to be looking at these projects right now, because it's only possible in consensus mode. Also, please refer to this question by Efraemov Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u15	Dear colleagues, what's really going on? If the BUT faction postpones, withdraws its statement on privatization or the bankruptcy of coal enterprises, it is better to say that coal enterprises are bankrupt. It thus opens the door to ensure that those enterprises, while they are all in debt to the coal industry, are exposed from 1 January of the following year. Given that all coal enterprises are under the control of the BET faction, we mean that they are preparing full-scale privatization in the coal sector through the bankruptcy of these enterprises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u16	Dear colleagues, these issues are being removed from today’s schedule of meetings, since this was possible only at a consensual approach. For this reason also from the Communist faction, please National Deputy Kravchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u17	Cowchenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, well, I'm asking you to be serious. This is the fate of the entire industry. Since the year 94, we have been burying her, and in 98 we have finally passed the bankruptcy bill, after closing down the mine bankruptcy, after closing down the mine bankruptcy. To date, this law has been in force and it has prevented the final collapse of this industry, how can we be so lightly when a member of the Volinec faction submits a bill, I co-sponsor the bill. Suddenly, the Head of the BIT assumes this responsibility to withdraw the bill. How could that be? You can't mess with the industry like that. I ask that we consider this bill and take it to number one. The industry's failure will begin on January 1st.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u18	Here, unfortunately, I can't help you in this situation right now, these bills will then be incorporated in order of order of order and can only be considered in turn if the leaders of the MP factions are willing to do so. Dear colleagues! With regard to the issue of the law amending the Law on Elections of Ukrainian People's Deputies, I would like to report that there has been no deception and cannot be, since on Tuesday, the Supreme Council of Ukraine voted to include this issue in the agenda of the plenary week in the agenda of the day. And since this bill, like a number of others, is not included in the agenda of the day session, it has been scheduled in a separate chapter for inclusion in the agenda of the day session and for decision-making on these bills. This chapter is still behind questions that we have not yet considered, since today we will continue to consider issues that are scheduled for Tuesday. The report of the Temporary Special Commission on the Monitoring Status of Disaster Management, which took place from 23 to 27 July 2008 in the Winnitsky, Ivano-Frankowsky, Zakarpatski, Lviv, Ternopil and Cherniewsky areas, is under review. According to Alexander Mikolaiovich Pecklesenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u19	Respectable voters! Dear colleagues! The theme of disaster management, which took place in the western areas in July 2008, was and remains relevant for a number of reasons. The first is the number of people killed by this natural disaster. And here in my text is a huge sign of the question, because from the very beginning we must answer whether we have the right, the people's electorate, to write everything in this tragedy to nature. We have to start calling everyone responsible. It was not the responsibility of the deputies of all the calls that the problem had not been a major one — adequate funding. The answer is clear: guilty. As members of the Commission, we were very confident that the work of our commission could change the situation in this most severe tragedy. Once again, I would like to point out quite objectively that the composition of the commission, in my view, has been improved very well. The work of Zebravský Pavel Ivanović, Tkača Romana Vladimirović, Šlemko Dmitry Vasilievich, Gaszuk Petr Petrović, Danilenko Vladimir Andreevich, Akimova, Kolocja, Samoylenko is particularly grateful. Notice, I'm not calling the factions. Because we have worked extremely monolithically, only as the Commission of the Supreme Council. Since the beginning of our work, we have managed to break free from politics by 90 per cent. We met mainly because there was no unity between the money-using teams. On the one hand, these are local administrations under the leadership of Yushchenko, on the other hand, they are ministerial structures under the leadership of Kabmin Timoshenko. What was among the main participants in the “interference system” is a fairly strong response from Mr. Turkinov's first Vice-Prime Minister. [[& Tiles]] A meeting was held as a result of the results of the examinations by the First Vice Prime Minister. It should be noted that no Governor from the affected areas has arrived at the headquarters meeting. Think of it for a minute: a meeting is being held, the government, the ministers, and the main unit is the local executive branch. What's the efficiency at the start? The Cabinet of Ministers' structure, the structure of the President's Administration, even in the face of a state-level, global tragedy, acted, not as a responsible executive power, but as a political player, had already been launched by the electoral race. During our first report, the commission was criticized for the election for listing the facts from the letters of the residents. What have our distinguished colleagues told me? Couldn't they have hired a prodigal to analyze and say where they stole it? Well, first of all, we didn't have the means or the authority. Secondly, neither one nor 150 nor 1,000 slaves will do what the machine of executive power has to do. Nearly a quarter of a million people worked on this project. We're the commission, not the FBI to investigate theft schemes, not Interpol. We are the monitoring commission, that is, we were able to analyse the materials that gave us power. I'm showing you what we got from the Presidential Administration, from Yushchenko. Problem, catastrophe, and we got "ten lines, eight points"! What can the commission do, what conclusions? A little more in volume, in the coffeehouses, but we got 700 pages from the Cabinet of Ministers, 4 million figures, no conclusions and no proposals. I'll tell you honestly, if it wasn't for the information provided twice by the Supreme Council of the Court of Auditors of Ukraine, by the Attorney-General's Office, we should have offered you a moratorium on the work of the commission instead of monitoring today. So nothing personal, just the findings of the main supervisory body, the Supreme Council, where the majority is not a Party of Regions, but you, the parties of power. The State audit has established the egregious facts of the ineffective management of the State budget. First, and most importantly, the draft master plan for repairs, which included lists of works, was not approved. The audit found that there had been an attack on public funds, namely, a violation of the law in the use of funds of four billion dollars each in one third or 1.2 billion, state audit findings, and fraud. Remember that figure, 1.2 billion out of the 4th. Regional public administrations in the affected regions have provided the inadequacies required for the level of funding. It was all about getting the money. Hundreds of millions were talking in areas where there was not enough money in the government budget, and then they came back, you know, 100 million there. First of all, the Ministry used tens of millions of bracelets not by appointment, not to eliminate the effects of the disaster, but to address its business activities. The Government, the local authorities of the executive branch, had violated the requirements for determining the loss of effects. As a result, by spending more than 4 billion dollars in government funds, and this needs to be understood as popular money, the Government has neither defined nor provided a list of volumes, quantity nor quality in general. As a result of the inadequate level of organization of work, the lack of an integrated programme approach for 1.01.2009, attention has not been given to 7 thousand facilities, 3,000 facilities or 50 per cent of the general plan. Only 36 per cent of the facilities are in place by the central executive bodies. In utility property of 5.5 thousand at 2.8 billion, only 2.5 or another half were implemented. Failure to fully deal with the impact of the disaster makes it impossible to properly operate the facilities, endangering the normal functioning of the explosive area. How many assurances were there that the money, the facilities, would be under control. This is where the Prime Minister personally promised us. In fact, money is almost in the wind. But we do know that this "Vanki Vetrova" has specific protectors and specific pockets. Everything was paid for the repurchasing of the money-trenching rents and their counterfeits, in particular in the Chernović area, the construction of the homes of the victims for the family compensated, which is why 20 per cent more than the prescribed order. In each area, in general, the cost of housing was 30 per cent higher than that declared in the areas. The Commission did not intend to offer Kabmin a negative attitude. The Commission wanted to see in the work of the executive branch the mechanisms for protecting against the intrusion of such hard-earned budgetary resources to the State. In addition to complaints from residents of affected areas, the facts provided by the Attorney-General's Office are clear. As a result of 13.11.2009, 236 criminal cases were initiated. I'm not saying a lot of this or a little bit. 118 concerning violations of budgetary legislation. 149 has been sent to the court for the time being. In abuse of office, local council officials, I repeat, largely 99 per cent of all cases initiated are on local councils. Although half the money was used by the Kiev structures. The full impact of law enforcement is on the village councils. As a whole, 19 criminal cases have been instituted by prosecutors of flood-affected areas concerning local and executive workers. A total of 544 claims have been filed before the courts - damages to the State. So far, 187 claims for 700,000 bracelets have been reviewed and approved by the courts, just think. All the efforts of the public car, the efforts of the thousandth army, have been compensated.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u20	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u21	Reimbursable is 25,000 from the amount that has been disbursed. And you remember the figure of 1.2 billion were attacked. The information I have provided is based, objectively and firstly, on the audit material of the Public Prosecutor's Office and the General Prosecutor's Office. The letters of our voters indicate that the threat of tragic consequences has not only diminished but in some cases increased. In 2009, there is no comprehensive programme at the State level, and to date for 2009 there is no less than 65 per cent for the completion of unfinished facilities. In the past month and a half, the commission met twice. And, regrettably, respected colleagues from BUT have ignored the meeting of the Commission in its entirety. Regrettably, the work of the special commission has become a stretch. The political parties supporting the President are talking about the heroic efforts of the ombudsmen, and the political forces supporting the Prime Minister instead of the report are talking about Kabmin's best practices. You are therefore invited to order. It's very short and.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u22	Alexander Mikolaiovich, we will comment on the decision later. Time is up. Please ask the reporter. Bondarenko Volodymir Dmitrovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u23	Vladimir Bondarenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear Alexander Mikolaiovich, you mentioned in your report that the heads of the local administration had ignored the sessions of the commission in which the ministers were involved. I mean, the Cabinet of Ministers along with you were trying to find a way out of the situation, and someone was blocking the participation of the heads of state administration. You know who runs state administrations and you know there's no one there to represent our political power, the Yulia Tymoshenko Block. And they are led by the Roman Immortal, then by Victor Baloga, then by someone else, that parallel Cabinet that was created today at the Cabinet of Ministers. So I'd like you to be objectively appraised, the government was involved in this work, and those who didn't, you called them. And then somehow you got mixed up, both of them. That is, it should be an objective explanation of the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u24	Thank you, dear colleague Bondarenko. I am completely honest and respectful, and I am working constructively with you on the Committee on Budgets. And you, a man of experience, have to understand that you can't share power with Yushchenko and Timoshenko. The authority is both Yushchenko and Timoshenko. And whoever has the control bag, I'm not going to judge. In any case, if the two institutions do not interact, neither of them will interact. That's why we're here. Why did I say that we were working as a commission of the Supreme Council and our task was to offer these two people, who have disassociated themselves today for some reason. State-level tragedy. Is there anything you can think of? So at the time when one can resist, one walks in the boots, the other walks with a bone. Everyone's gone, the bridges are down, the money's gone and gone. It's not supposed to work like that. They must respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u25	Stonewall Valery Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u26	Kamchatya, Yulia Timoshenko, Kharkiv district. Dear Alexander Mikolaiovich, you have just informed us that your report based on only one document is based on the information of the Chamber of Auditors. And from the President's Department, it seems you've only been given one letter. I want to remind you that both you and Simonica have been provided with much more valuable information and more valuable things. I mean, Mr. Simonenko was rewarded with the title Hero of Ukraine for such information. And the President gave you the title “Deserved Economist of Ukraine” for preparing this report. So these things that are written here in this report are completely understandable to me. I think I'd like to ask you, not only did you have to ask the account room, but you had to ask those people who are grateful to the government for having stretched out their hand in a difficult moment, giving them money, building houses, rebuilding bridges. And you are today.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u27	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u28	So I want to remind you that it was during a difficult time that the government stretched out its hand, the funds were allocated at the right time, and there was operational construction, and assistance. Did you ask people if they were satisfied or not? Have you written all of this based on Simonna’s information? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u29	Well, you know, according to tradition, that's always the way it is. I thank you for the question, my respectable colleague. But what you've said is as much a question as what you're saying out of respect, let your conscience be what you're talking about. The only thing I'm asking is for you to speak more often. Because your performances are amazing. And when you told me yesterday, not yesterday, but the day before, why did you take that prize from the President, you couldn't wait a little longer, your guys would be here any minute. I thank you for assessing our candidate's rating. And I understand you're already looking out for a place like yourself, a place like you, and you know it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u30	Vaszczuk Katerina Timofievna
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u31	Dear reporter! Today, it's true, it's a very important question, it's a natural thing. We had such a natural situation in Volina. And right now, I've got a lot of people coming to me about this. Those who have received help are grateful. But it turned out to be. That farmers who work individually received compensation for losing their crops in their areas. And the collective farms, the agrofirms, did not receive such compensation. And because they lost their crops and did not receive compensation, in fact, the economy of these farms today is weeping, they are in a very difficult situation. Can't you predict in your determination that the government has returned has taken into account the needs and large farms, not just this.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u32	Please finish Katerina Timofievno.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u33	Thank you. And to take into account the needs and needs of all large farms, not just single farms, in dealing with natural disasters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u34	Thank you, Your Honor, for asking. I absolutely reaffirm all the thoughts that you are saying and I completely disagree with them when they say that our report to the Commission, first of all, is not my report, not the Party of the Regions, it is the Commission of the Supreme Council, which has only 15 members. You could please solve any question with that majority. Why, if you don't agree with the Commission's conclusions, you didn't write your own, alternative opinion, you have professional people to do that, you have a number of people who could have gone through the commission. Therefore, my task in our decision to do the most important thing with you is to force the power to deal with the problems of this tragedy!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u35	Bodnar Olga Borisovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u36	Well, you know, reverend Alexander Mikolaiovich, there's no normal people in Ukraine, and there's some thefts, thieves, traitors, "Wanky Winds" and I don't know who else. I'm sorry, but it seems to me that even the situation that you put in the report today is not quite so negative, because even what you said you were forced to say is that criminal legislation works. Nevertheless, she now confirmed that the funds were being allocated to the peasants and so on. You know very well that not only is the President there, or the Prime Minister can influence this situation. You are well aware that local government authorities have made great, great efforts to do so. But unfortunately, somehow there's a way to join that wallet and maybe get yourself some money. Here's a question. Yesterday we were discussing with you the possibility of enacting a law on TSC.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u37	Finish up, please. It's easier to form questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u38	Now you see as the head of the TSC that the absence of this law does not allow you to force the heads of state administration to come to your meeting. Why didn't your faction understand that yesterday? And one more question. If you say that the heads of state administration have failed in their duties, has the President pointed to this? Did he respond adequately? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u39	Dear colleague Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u40	Bodnar Olga Borisovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u41	Excuse me, please. I am very respectful of you and I am far from thinking that there are no honest and decent people in the country and in our Parliament. Both the country and the Parliament make up 99 per cent of them. And this once again proves that we should not give one percent of the bad guys a reason to feel like the masters of the country. Because we are today, and even in your question, what was the point? To try to make me an arbitral judge: who is more to blame – Yushchenko or Timoshenko? But it won't be on my side. We are talking about power, power where the President's institution is today, where the government institution is today. Thus, in this tragedy, a tragedy of a State scale, power has made millions of people hostage in its actions. That's the main conclusion. And.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u42	Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u43	Dear Mr. Alexander Nikolaevich, you believe that after your first report, which referred to the homicidal facts of the gravest abuses in the use of billions of public funds in the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Health, veterinary service, especially the corrupt facts of the minecology license, no action has been taken by Prime Minister Yulia Timoshenko to eliminate them. What is this, a corruption in the ranks of public policy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u44	Dear colleagues, there is a mass of issues that are political, and we can be active, aggressive. But there are issues where politics should not be present at all. I'm here yesterday in discussions with my colleagues from BUT and NUNS, we came to the main conclusion: corruption has neither geography nor a party ticket. Corruption, and the fight against it, is something that Parliament can and should unite. So what do we object to? There are the facts of the Attorney General's Office, the Court of Auditors. Are there any objections to one fact? If there's no objection, what are we talking about? We are talking about the main thing: that power, no matter what it has to do for an hour or a month, must be grouped together and must do what must be done to give to those who waved at holy money, money on blood, money on tears.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u45	Thank you, Alexander Mikolaiovich, sit down, please. Let's sign up for a discussion. Bondarenko Volodymir Dmitrovic. From the microphone, please. Please highlight the list of all speakers on the board.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u46	Vladimir Bondarenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. After listening to another report on the situation in the Carpathian region following the flood, I did not hear what was done there. And there's a lot of stuff there, and there's information in the open press, and there's thanks from people who got whole streets, houses, bridges. I've been to Carpathians recently, and I've seen that maybe for the first time in the history of an independent Ukraine and the Soviet Union, there's been more or less normal roads that don't have to be translated every year, capital bridges are being built, not temporary buildings that are still being built every year. So it seems to me that the government of Julia Timoshenko has just gone the way that State policy in this region should have been: the overall development plan, the networking and infrastructure in the Carpathians, which would have been for tens of years, not one year. And so when some today want to dislodge from the vast amount of work that has been done, only the negative facts of the theft by the heads of the village councils or the scheming of documents or by local administrations, it is consciously said that it is one and that authority alone. Who are you, not the authorities? And we would also like to hear today what your political power was doing there today, which declares its concern for the state. There was nothing to do but lay our feet and find facts and facts. I'm sure that raining down on the city that's been poured out by the President is a part of it. A study of this situation in the Carpathians, in particular, what did the head of the Cell of the Hero of Ukraine deserve? What a heroic act, apart from the embalming of Odessa’s fishing trip along with Kudukin, this man, whose name is Simonenko Valentino, did. [[Don't get mixed up with Simonenko Peter.]] So what I'd like to say is that the heroism that was shown back then, obviously, was something that was worth it. I'm not sure that Alexander Mikolaiovich, a colleague of mine and a budget committee, has no scoldings today. such reproofs of conscience in connection with receiving that title. It was at this very time when he headed a commission that had done so much to undermine the authority of the Prime Minister and the Cabinet of Ministers, and nothing more, by the way. There were no real proposals, no reactions, no expectations until someone made a mistake. So all of the President's winning policies, which have been happening lately, testify to the joint opposition with Yanukovic and the President's Administration, headed by Baloga, are with anyone else, because the President himself today is one whole and is a trusted individual, actually Victor Fedorovich, so all that we've heard here today is another testimony from such a game in two hands against the government of Ukraine, against that political and conduct. Go there, ask people how they appreciate the work that was done under terrible circumstances when you did not give a penny.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u47	Smithuh Grigori Yudkomovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u48	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished national MPs, citizens of Ukraine! Well, what we're listening to today, two days ago and today, is a report from the interim commission of inquiry, which is actually things that are unacceptable in any state, the more the state that needs today intense, so to speak, the support of the authorities that should be responsible for the shameful phenomena that we unfortunately have today. Well, look, on the left side of the rostrum and on the right side of the rostrum, where there should be at least representatives today, even though representatives, and I believe that in considering such matters, there should be the first persons who are directly responsible for these questions that are being answered in Parliament today. You all realize that we do have a parliamentary-presidential republic, and the contempt of those bodies that we should be hearing today with the members of the commission is unfortunately not happening. What does this indicate, in my view? This indicates that these people who are in charge of this process, who are directly involved, are covering or taking part in the theft of budgetary money. Take it, please. Remember, last year, when there was a natural disaster and, in fact, there was an immediate need to meet, the parliament interrupted the vacation, gathered here -- and allocated 4 billion money. Four billion is almost $1 billion at the time. What's done? Most of this money has been stolen or used for purposeless purposes. Well, for example, the Party of Regions is accused of having some kind of involvement or other claims against one or the other political forces. I don't think so. I'll give you an example: the Lviv District Council, yes, the Party of Regions there are no deputies at all, it created a commission this year, and this control commission, which she pointed out, is that 270 million dollars were allocated to the Lviv Region, 100 million of them were used by no destination, or simply stolen, not to mention that other money was used ineffectively. This inspection committee sent materials to these bodies, including the President, the Attorney General, and so forth. There have been 66 criminal cases, so what we're talking about is the opposition that hides these facts, or we're talking about people who steal money. Unfortunately, you know, everyone has to earn, but on a mountain, on a people's suffering, on a natural disaster that has plagued our settlements in these regions, it's impossible morally, it wouldn't allow this money to be stolen, and unfortunately, it's completely different. So I'm counting that until the Supreme Council asks the question that, when dealing with such shameful phenomena as the theft of budgetary money, there will be no General Prosecutor, Minister of the Ministry of Justice, Minister of the Interior and other officials who have a direct bearing on these matters, effective from us is the work of the Temporary.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u49	Zibenko Peter Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, honourable citizens of Ukraine, we are indeed in the course of the last, Peter Cibenko, the faction of the Ukrainian Company, for two days we have heard a number of reports from special commissions with you. But I'd like to take this question that we're looking at right now, to isolate it into a separate conversation, because it's about, in fact, a situation in a third of Ukraine, it's about a situation where a lot of people are affected, it's about extremely important things. So to put all the dots above the "and," I want to remind us of the conditions in which you and I made decisions then and the allocation of funds, and the creation of a commission, and so on, and so on and so forth. Because you and I had hundreds, thousands of calls from voters, you and I had lots of letters from governors, district management, we had those governors who didn't join the commission here in the government's bed, and they insisted, they demanded it. What is more, you and I have emphasized that the main arrangement of the funds allocated to deal with natural disasters must be the management of the areas. Today we see that the governors have washed their hands, they are no longer applicable. The magnitude of the tragedy is evidenced by the vast number of criminal cases that have been committed. But we even know that it is not in all the facts of the abuse of a criminal offence and that it is not less than 236. 544 subpoenas for damages. Indeed, it is a huge tragedy and it is a huge abuse of the funds that have been used and used very and very unprofessionally. Because it's true about bridges that have collapsed and about roads that have spread out after the first rain, and so on and so forth. Today we see many who would like to be rebaptized for such things. You see there's no orange camp today, they're already white-hearted, and there's an active president who's gone under other flags. You know, I want to say, for me, for my colleagues, for the people who have suffered, they have remained the ones who came out of one nest and the responsibility for the abuse, including the purposeless use of funds, is absolutely the sole responsibility of authority and is no easier than that citizen under which flag today and power. Therefore, we have every reason to accept the decision proposed by the commission. The other thing that I understand is that it's going to be very, very hard to accept, because there are also a lot of people in this room who are interested in not having this decision adopted, first of all, in the second paragraph of this decree where language goes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u51	Weaving Roman Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u52	Dear Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen! Roman Tjak, faction of "Our Ukraine People's Self-Defense." You know, I'm a little sad right now to hear what's going on here in the hall, because I live in that region, I live in the Ivano-Frankow district, and when people just now hear what they're talking about, it feels like there's some thieves living there. Everyone's stealing, nothing's done, and I'm sorry to hear about it. In fact, a great deal of trouble came to us in 2008. But I just want to tell you a little bit about something else. The great flood on Prikarpat was on 98th, in 2001, 2006, 2007 was two floods, and the apophemism must have taken place by God's will in 2008. Between January 1, 2008, the area was damaged by about half a billion dollars. In fact, it's not funded from Kiev, it's almost nothing. Hundreds of miles of underground walls, roads, bridges, viaducts, tunnels had already been destroyed before and the flood of 2008 had simply reportedly sealed all of this. And today to say that all this money has been stolen is not right. And I'm asking you not to talk about it. Were there any violations? There have been violations, as there is always a violation, but still the people who live there, thank the government, thank the local authorities, and thank you. And by the way, it was an unprecedented case where there were a lot of firms working in us, in Johno-Francisco from Donetsky, Dnipropetrovsk, Lugansk. They saw people living there, and our people owe it to all those who have done so. But here's the question in another, you see, we have a good example in Ukraine, the same Carpathians, when there was a flood in 98, then the State Program was going on, and virtually every year there were 20 to 50 million bracelets, and in Prikarpatta, in Zakarpatt in 2008, there were virtually no casualties. This was not in Ivano-Frankish. And that's why I would like, or the main conclusion to be drawn from this committee's meeting, to be made in the following way: literally from the following year. Such a program is already designed by local authorities, providing funds each year, and all that has been done, fortifying these roads and dams. And the main conclusion is that it is necessary to approach this work systematically, but not from time to time. And so I would ask all of you, those who are involved in the discussion, not to tell any more about what someone was stealing. Thieves, or those who break the law are also in the Donetsk region, in Dnipropetrovsk, yes, probably also in Ivano-Frankivsky. And the requests from me, from the people who live there, we're going to be looking at this year or this year, most likely next year's budget for the following year, and that's the main conclusion of the commission, is that the cost of liquidation needs to be set up each year's budget. Thank you. Then, after the determination, I will express my thoughts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u53	School of Andriy Vasilovich, please. And the National Deputy Kamchatny, who signed up with a lead, also gives him three minutes -- six minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u54	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Thank you, Comrade Kamchatno, for giving me these three minutes. I'd like to emphasize, first of all, that, well, let's sort it out in terms. Let's figure this out. The Commission is called the “Report of the Temporary Special Commission on the Blacking and Overlapping of Disaster Management, which took place from 23 to 27 July 2008.” Basically everything is right, I agree with that name. The name is very good, and it actually fits the content. Because no investigation of what happened to the funds that he had allocated, in accentuately, the Supreme Council had allocated, and the government had found 4 billion dollars to liquidate the state after the disaster had occurred, there was nothing but over-breeding and blacking. And that was the task before the chairman of the commission. And I think the faction of the Party of the Regions was discussing his performance in this very key. Because, despite the fact that it's not just grief in principle, it's the tragedy of hundreds of thousands of people. Why don't you stand on their bones when the election is coming? Why don't we just have a fight now and tell them that they're all bad, and they're all white and blue and fluffy. Thus, the commission failed to cope with its task. It doesn't meet those requirements that are generally before any monitoring committee, because it didn't study anything, everything was studied before that. The emphasis on what claims are most important among others. Claims before how the funds were arranged on the spot. The claims are made by people who have not received or who in principle may not have been affected by their dowry or houses, but have been affected by roads, bridges, all these costs at the request of the Party of Regions, the faction of the Party of Regions in the Supreme Council when an extraordinary session took place. All of this was paid as a ransom to the local authorities. Because the government offered to store these funds in a stable fund and then the government, directly and the Prime Minister, would be responsible for spending these funds. In this situation, you can complain to the government that the government has found these funds. You don't like it, I understand it, because you wouldn't find that kind of money in your life. What kind of people in Western Ukraine to give 4 billion when there are many assignments of their own, when there are many people to please, to help. That's another one that didn't have an important and interesting nuance. You know, when local administrations were responsible for the funds, district administrations, but there were a lot of problems with the management of the funds by district administrations, the contractors, the users of the funds, the builders, were firms, for example, from Donetsk, didn't they take the roads where they built them? Has the commission investigated this? Who are directly responsible for the spread of the road? The one who made the money, or the one who was wearing the robe, as this road was always built? Of course, the one who accepted was in line with the one who built it. But did the commission investigate that question? Of course not. It wasn't the commission, it wasn't the purpose of anyone in front of this committee, it wasn't the members, unfortunately, it wasn't the heads. I don't know what kind of economic merit the commission's head got, I guess they were, but there's something I don't like. Some do not taste that this happened just before this report. So I want to make the most of it, the government has reacted very quickly, and the reaction of Parliament to the ball is also instantaneous. So I'm just wondering why we parliamentarians, and I've got a colleague here, a parliamentarian, trying to black someone out, inking themselves first. I don't know how many times I went to the Western Ukraine, in Lviv, there weren't exactly any, so trust me, I often go out and talk to people. But anyway, it just needed to be clearly and clearly set up a task, here's any objective analysis that should be presented in the report, and it could all be covered up here by some political crackdown and rhetoric. Unfortunately, the report doesn't match the reality, because there were really no major problems -- who stole the money? You're trying to break it all in, steal the money from the guy who gave it away. Well, that's just more than absurd. Here, even, you know, when you're lying, you always have to think that this lie looks likely. Costs have been found by the government, guided by the Supreme Council. I would like to stress once again that the faction of the Party of the Regions has given everything to the heads of the district government to distribute these funds. And the culprits must be the one who finally made the money. The government found an opportunity in the budget, which at the time usually needed the costs of these both in Kiev and on the Kyiv District Road, we all felt it. Nevertheless, if the truth is not sought, the basic black, the basic lie, is replaced by the truth. So I would like to propose a report from the Commission, the Temporary Special Commission on Disgusting and Overhearing of Natural Disaster Elimination, which has taken place in the 23rd century. close the year and forget about it. Because it is not worth, even the time spent on it today. And let them answer to themselves, to the electorate, and to God for the lie that they have uttered here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u55	Arjewitin Stanislav Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u56	Stanislaw Arzhevtin, a deputy group “For Ukraine!” In general, I would like to express my gratitude to the members and deputies -- the national deputies working on this committee and the head. And my position is that the commission should continue its work. Because we are accustomed to abuse such matters and therefore think of a little secret. Of course, I wanted to hear more, too, and another aspect of the commission's activity and research -- and how much money has been allocated to overcome or complete work on this natural disaster? In terms of the Zakarpatsk region, for example, 78.5 million dollars are underfunded for the rehabilitation of municipal property in general in the Zakarpatsk region. So it is that from time to time natural disasters come to the Carpathian regions, especially in the Zacarpathian region. And unfortunately, there are specialized programs in the Cabinet of Ministers, but they're underfunded. And I wanted to point out once again from this rostrum, especially for the Cabinet of Ministers and the ministry that it envisions, please close those debts that are already on the same agenda for similar natural disasters in the Zacarpathian region. For example. Here, to move citizens out of active displacement zones, 45 million are underfunded and not closed. With regard to the comprehensive counter-removal program in the Zakarpat region, which was scheduled for 99-2010, and the relevant decision of the Cabinet of Ministers was approved, today the debt is 14.5 million dollars. As far as funding is concerned, the program is complex against. The flood protection of the Tis River basins is now almost $230,000 in debt. So I would like to ask the commission once again to point out that there is not only abuse but also underfunding. So I suggest that the commission continue to work and add one more item. The Cabinet of Ministers, when drafting the Ukrainian State Budget 2010 bill, will provide subsidies to the district budgets of Winnitsky, Ivano-Frankovsky, to all others provided for in this regulation, in full scope to complete the work on the elimination of the consequences of this phenomenon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u57	Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u58	Dear colleagues, frankly, I was not expecting such a nervous, psychopathic reaction to the usual report we've heard here. We should all draw conclusions, not try to try someone, as you say, to black out or to fertilize. The disaster that took place in the summer of 2008 was objectively experienced by the ruling coalition, Prime Minister Timoshenko of Ukraine, President Yushchenk, and these are objective facts. What are you going to do about it? But listen, if you were in power in 2008, you could have other political powers, other names, and you'd be an opposition. And how would you do it, and what were you talking about here? Your reaction to the opposition says you're not adults, you're respectful, you're talking about democracy. It smells like authoritarianism. And you claim that your leader must unite all democratic forces around him. What you've done here, what you've done, and what you've done, you've got a confidant there, and so on. What it has to do with the fact that today and half of the destroyed utilities are neither restored nor functioning, and 4,000 villages are not being gassed. And all bridges are not restored. What should we conclude from this calamity? First. Why has the outcome of this tribulation not yet been eliminated? Why in western Ukraine and this day, people fear, especially when spring comes or when floods begin? Because the funding scheme for the liquidation you're talking about here, the consequences, the failure to accept the heavy consequences, need to be improved and reviewed. Please, we can talk about this. The other one. In order not to allow what we're talking about, we had to set up immediately, honourable colleagues, immediately strict parliamentary control, for example, at the level of the budget committee at the expense of these funds. Third. And remember how many years the efforts of the Secretary of the President, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine are discredited by the Ukrainian Parliament itself, and Parliamentarianism is discredited. Why are you surprised that our role is reduced and the effectiveness of our temporary commission of inquiry is reduced to zero by its effectiveness. The status of the temporary commission of inquiry should be elevated, for it is the people under article 5 of the Constitution that are the source of authority and the bearer of sovereignty, and we are chosen by the people. Well, that's the last of it. You'll excuse me, I've recently brought a whole pack of complaints from the Ivano-Frankow district and handed it over to this committee about the fact that no one has even approached the people. Here's an example for you from the Tysminsky region. The water took the shore, the water took the city, took the dowry and the building, and went home. And she was brought a stone and a roll of net. That's the whole elimination of the consequences. I think the commission did the right thing. And stop falling in.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u59	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u60	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! Thank God that I'm on the road, I've been through all these areas. And Vinnitsky, and Frankivsky, and Zakarpatski, Ternopilsky, Cherniewsky. And I can see that, thank God, there are roads, thank God, there are bridges. True, not as much as it takes. What was the cause of the floods, the first and the second, that Mr. Roman Tkac or the other speakers were paying attention to? What Is the Cause of Flooding? And the cause of the floods is mindless deforestation, mindless. Nowhere near Austria or the Czech Republic or Poland or Germany can do that! Have we considered projects designed to ensure that we do not cut down the forest? No, we didn't. And now, you know, I'm very careful with reading, strictly all the documents. After reading this document, unlike the previous document that the commission was able to make, well, it happens that the first verse is good, and then something goes wrong. So the first one was a healthy report then, a serious, solid report. This report is not so. Why? Let's read the name of the commission. The Disaster Monitoring Commission, which happened on July 23-27 in these areas. From monitoring, I repeat, the consequences of a natural disaster. Not from what we just talked about. Why do I say that? And because from page 1 to page 10 comes a reference to the first, the first, the 1st, January 2009. Here's to page 10, to page 11, sorry, pages. So as a result of that, I quote, 2009 was not completed, which is an inefficient management of the funds. January of 2009. And now it's the end of December. Then, and so around or, for example, unbalanced government action on the payment of aid, quoting, the affected population, and the constant pressure on local executive authorities on the quickest payment of money, led to some decisions being made quickly. To whom money was given when the house fell, of course, there was pressure, so let's think about what we were writing and what was the causal link. Dear friends, I would like to say such words to you. To hide the faults of their creators, We give counsel generously to others, We don't even know ourselves, and we don't see In his free-flowing rape, And woe when the way is seen There's something about blind people in life. That's what the poet Stanislaw Streženjuk said. I'd like us to end up on the positive, on what's done.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u61	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u62	And what was absolutely correct on page 14 was the commission's proposal to admit, on the basis of the above, we suggest that we listen to the government's report at the plenary meeting, the account report, the general government report, consider the issue of abuse. But these proposals and what the determination is, these are different things. So in one report, different positions, let's listen first, and then we'll make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u63	Yuri Anatolyevich, you repeat.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u64	Thank you. I didn't say a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u65	Hare Ivan Alexanderovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u66	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. Honorable national deputies when we wait for the true performances, not the constituency. Some say they found the money, and in fact it was clear that the money was being sought together, and the Supreme Council, and the government, and the President, because banking structures and other things were involved. So let us speak the truth. Others claim that nothing is done, and they say that the opposite is done, I think the truth is somewhere in the middle. So I would like the commission to report in that direction, look at the causes of the natural disaster, and here, really, we have to point out what the Carpathians are cutting out, and that's one of the reasons. The other one. This is to establish what is done and what is not done. Because we know that much is done and much is not done. I was approached by people from the village of Tekuch of the Kosovo region. There were funds allocated, there was such an obscenity of Roast that was cut off from the village. I went to see what was going on and how it was done. As I saw, there is no bridge because of the current, and there is a pipe. So I think it's a job to put a pipe in the mountains instead of a small bridge, because the pipe will definitely be killed in the first flood with these stones. And it's not finished. So I think it's all over the place. Therefore, we should anticipate the same funding for the following year as for the completion of this work, so that we do not have these natural disasters. And this is the main conclusion of this work. And the third question is abuse. It's just as difficult a question. We know that the abuse was, we know that the money was large, that it was buried, not in the ground, but in someone's pocket, which was the abuse of another order. Those who were closer to authority were given the first opportunity to build something, perhaps even to build for those who were not affected by the flood. That's what we know. So we need to talk today about not only the central authorities, but also the local authorities, and even if you want to, the behavior of individuals who wanted to take advantage of this scourge and improve their situation. So let's not get into this argument here, but finally think about these three highway paths, explore the causes of the natural. And this committee has to continue to work, find out what's done, what's not done, what's to be done. And the third is to detect these abuses. And whoever lets you break the laws has to answer, because you can't take advantage of people in trouble. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u67	Alexander Mikolaiovich, is there a need in the closing word? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u68	Dear voters, distinguished colleagues, I am grateful for all the presentations. I am sure that there is no one who is indifferent to the issue under discussion today, and a heated discussion has shown that the commission is on the right track. I would like to thank once again all the members of the commission. I am sure that the Commission has played a role in curbing those despicables who have yet to go to budget money. But that's not the point. Most importantly, I fully agree with a colleague who said that the cause of submergment is barbaric deforestation. But the cause of barbaric deforestation is paralysis of power. And here we, MPs, have to fight this main cause of paralysis of power. We will have a new president with you after the election, a new Prime Minister, and I am sure that even in this composition, there will be a new parliament of tasks and qualities. And you and I are going to overcome the root cause of all trouble, the paralysis of power. Now I want to talk about the ruling. Please, no one objects, the order consists of four paragraphs. There is the work of administrations, heads of administration, of the Cabinet of Ministers. In our proposal, we find it unsatisfactory. You will propose to assess it as excellent, and tell us how you worked during the liquidation, and we will also work after the election. Please, this slogan, and go to the polls with him. Who's against it? Vote for it. The following items are proposed: what the colleague said: the report of the Government, the report of the Office of the Attorney-General, and, most importantly, the parliamentary hearings, where we will listen to all the actors where we will hear the views of the scientists, the families of the victims, the relatives of the victims. The country must know the true causes of this unnatural catastrophe! Please support this draft regulation.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u69	Dear colleagues, it is based on the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concerning the activities of the Monitoring Commission. [[Registration number 5436]] I'd like to make a statement. [[11:37:39]] For – 189 The draft regulation is not supported. Please, by the factions. Region Party – 157, "Club of Timoshenko" – 0, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" – 4, Communist faction – 27, "Club of Lithuania" – 0, non-fractional – 1. Dear colleagues, as of tomorrow, the commission ceases. The draft Ordinance on Amendments to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the Establishment of a Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Verification of the National Bank of Ukraine in a Financial Crisis is being announced. [[Registration number 4582]] Dear colleagues! The author of this decision sent a letter requesting that the project not be considered, since it is today that the year, the maximum deadline for the commission, has passed, that is why, in view of the deadline and the author’s request, we no longer have it today. There's no point in looking at the changes in the composition of this committee. The commission has submitted a preliminary report, and you and I have considered it, and I now announce that this commission will terminate its mandate from tomorrow. The next question we had to consider was a draft regulation to amend the composition of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to verify compliance with Ukrainian legislation in the reconstruction of the National Sports Complex "Olympic" with regard to the exit of this commission of the People's Deputies of Topolova. Topolov’s national deputy also claimed that he had changed his mind and wished to remain and the composition of the commission. So if there's no objection, we're also taking that question off the table. So the composition of the commission remains what it was, because we've approved the report and the commission's deadline has been extended. It's being announced. Dear colleagues, there has been an application for a recess in the plenary session from the MP factions of the "Julia Timoshenko" and the faction "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense". An application or a break? Please, Bondarenko Volodymyr Dmitrovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u70	Statement of the faction “Blocca timoshenko” in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. "The BUT Faction requires the establishment of a temporary parliamentary inquiry commission to investigate the ownership by Yanukovič of 140 hectares of state property in “Megigira”. The Timoshenko’s “Blank of July”, which analyses the situation, thinks that this is an unprecedented case in the history of Ukraine, where the ownership of the state’s residence, as well as the vast territories around both the instigator’s territory and the hunting grounds, is taking place. The uniqueness of the situation is that, unlike other business and political elites living in private houses, Janukovič's property, first of all, was stolen from state property and for government money, there were roads and shore-building. Second, he's amazing at his gigantic size. For comparison, Yanukovich’s estate is slightly smaller than the Principality of Monaco, and it is four times the territory of the Vatican State. The BUT faction is convinced that there could be no legal action on ownership of state property. That is why 27 acts and orders for the acquisition of “Megirrhea” were stolen from the High City State Administration. All this documentation has been transferred to the Office of the Attorney-General for the Conservation of Regional Controls. [[in quotes]] At the moment, there are no documents that would give the Cabinet of Ministers the right to condemn in favour of the State of this territory. There is only some information, such as the secret Order of Victor Yushchenk No. 148, which says that the government's house in the area of the Recreation Complex “The Desert Guide” is passed on to the head of the Cabinet of Ministers Viktor Janukovič. Too many white spots around this property. Viktor Janukovic publicly calls for transparency and honesty, and he lives 140 acres [140 ha] and carefully hides information about how they came to him. The dissuasion, and in fact the theft of a government residence in such a presumptuous way as happened to the “Migiri” is an unprecedented event in Ukraine's history. That's why our faction requires the creation of a TSC that fully understands the reasons why Mr. Janukovic purchased a historic monastery complex. There's another question that the TSC should answer, that's the question of attracting 30,000 hectares of hunting grounds in Sukhlucci. If the Party of Regions, indeed, is convinced of the complete innocence of its leader, if Viktor Janukovich, indeed, sold everything he had to buy property in Medjugorje and has no relation to the hunting grounds in Sukhlucz, then the Party of Regions itself should initiate the creation of such a TSK, rather than make a fierce resistance to its creation. And a few seconds left, and I want to point out that yesterday there was a meeting of a commission that was looking at the question of disenfranchisement of the judge of the Supreme Economic Court. Do you remember the commission manager swearing that we would bring this question to the hall? Yesterday the question was deliberately removed from the list and the quorum was removed so that we could not resolve it. It's a violation of the Constitution, a man who's long gone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u71	Please, shut up. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please be calm in the hall. Finish up, Vladimir Dmitrovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u72	Yeah, yeah. .a person who was about to leave work almost a year and a half ago because his mandate in relation to the age set in the Constitution has been fulfilled, and everything is done to keep him alive. Therefore, the Master’s Court will consider Mizgirya, and they will therefore keep this gentleman in order for him to continue to falsify the situation around this residence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u73	Sha. From the next question? Please sign up. People's MP Landik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u74	Please give it to Hanna Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u75	Herman Hanna Mikolayevna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u76	Dear colleagues, with regard to special commissions, that's a very good idea. And that's why I'm making this proposal: to set up a special commission to investigate the concealment of Yulia Timoshenko's profits by checking where, in whose palace she lives, who pays for this palace, what expenses she lives for, and why she hides her profits, and to submit a false declaration to the CTC. I propose to create such a temporary commission of inquiry in Parliament, and before the election, to investigate the fact that Julia Timoshenko is hiding her profits.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u77	Kosov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u78	Please pass the word to Sergio Mishchenk. It's a leather jacket.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u79	Dear colleagues, it is the right of every faction, every political power, every MP to make such an offer. If a draft decision is prepared, please have no questions, consider and investigate, and contact the Attorney General’s Office. Do as is required by law. That is why we want to do things legally today. There's a decision to create a temporary commission of inquiry from a matter that we've just made a statement about. It's registered on November 17th. So December 17 was the month. So she doesn't need to be looked at on the committee, she's taken to the hall. Today, December 18, our faction requires, if you're not afraid, if you have nothing to hide, if you respect your leader, in order to, in fact, remove from him all the accusations that are currently coming to the press, please put this decision down now, this project, and we will vote for the creation of the TSC.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u80	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u81	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin. Honorable national MPs are the Mijgorje decree, the draft decree. It must be voted on. It is a duty to put — or right — on the table. conscience as one who votes for it. I raised questions yesterday, which are almost two years ago, because I'll remind you that in February it will be 67 years, and we have judges, according to the Constitution, only 65 years old. And, Alexander Volodymyrovich, project 2605 was introduced by the People's Deputies of Sobolev, Philenko, Schustik, Senchenko, Player, Oil and Carmazin on June 5, 2008, this project is not currently under consideration, not released by Mr. Demchenko, although there is an application by the High Council of Justice, which is located in the Supreme Council on December 8th, and we need to consider it now so that we don't drown.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u82	Efraemov Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u83	Thank you, Alexander Vladimirovich! Dear colleagues! Just a few minutes ago, we shut down the National Bank Commission. I remember with what regret the representatives of the BUIT insisted that the Commission should be voted on as a matter of urgency, because everything is falling apart if we do not vote in two hours, we will not save the State. As a result, the commission did not once meet, work, report, and die successfully today. I ask you, Alexander Vladimirović, not to violate the Rules of Work. With regard to the commission referred to by Anna Nikolayevna on hiding the proceeds of Timoshenko, it has been registered and is under consideration in the Rules Committee. With regard to the Intergorium Commission, it has been registered and is under consideration in the Rules of Procedure Committee. The Regulatory Committee will take a decision to that effect, and these matters will need to be considered in the session room. As soon as we are in breach of the procedure, the violation of the Rules usually ends in a sad and ineffective manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u84	Shevchuk Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u85	I give the floor to the National Deputy Sobolje Sergio.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u86	Dear colleagues! I don't understand what's been going on for a month is a draft ruling that, according to the current procedures of the Supreme Council, if you don't look at the Rules of Procedure, because clearly who's leading this committee, he's never going to look at it, it's automatically voted in the session room. One situation on the other committee, I mean the Justice Committee, where the head, who represents the same faction of the Regions, blocks the second decision, two years gets help, keeps the full state of his, the car, the secretary, he gets the crazy wages, the pension, and we can't get the Supreme Council to retire. We allocate additional funds to the courts because they say there is no funds, and the person is still in office. Therefore, these two questions need to be immediately put to the vote in the session room and once and for all to end the abuse of the Rules and the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u87	Bondik Valeriy Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u88	Dear colleagues, we're a little off schedule here, and for that matter, I signed up, too, for this proposal that was being made here. You know, if a commission is set up, it has to work, and any guesses or conjectures of national MPs, they don't make any legal sense. So I would suggest that we work, honourable Chairman Alexander Volodymyrovich, under the Rules and act in accordance with our established agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u89	Thank you. The conversation is over. My fellow Members, I would like to inform you that there is an absolute right of the Ukrainian National Deputies to create temporary commissions of inquiry and there are clear rules on representation on these committees, on representation on these committees, on the possibility of participating simultaneously in the various commissions. That's all the powers of the regulatory committee. As for the next question, at the retirement age, you and I in the session hall have considered this issue and it was clear that it was not possible to consider it without constitutional requirements. The constitutional requirements have been met, two weeks ago we received an answer to a letter that I applied for your commission and that is the submission of the High Council of Justice. We will certainly now consider matters in full compliance with the Constitution and laws of Ukraine that apply to persons in positions of state over statutory terms. This is the same as the head of the Supreme Court, and so is the member of the Central Electoral Commission, Mr. Pisarenko, whom you are stubbornly forgetting. We will consider this, and I propose that on Monday on the Conciliation Board this issue be considered and the scheduled time for both this issue and others. Today we have a schedule, we'll finish the work on it. On Monday, at least, I ask the faction leaders to make proposals on time to address both issues. The draft Ordinance on the Establishment of a Temporary Investigative Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Investigation of the Interventions of State Authorities and Local Self-Government, Their Officials in the Activities of the Media and Other Press Releases on Freedom of Speech in Ukraine is under review. [[Registration number 4588]] The National Deputy of Ukraine, Herman Hanna Mikolayevna, reports. There is a proposal to consider this issue in a simplified procedure. The proposal made by Sasa’s national deputy to review the reduced procedure is put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:53:22]] For-138 The decision is not taken. Please report to Anna Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u90	Dear National Deputies! Your attention is given to the draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine “On the Establishment of a Temporary Investigative Commission to Investigate Cases of Involvement of State Authorities and Local Self-Government, Their Officials in the Activities of the Media and Other Press Releases on Freedom of Speech in Ukraine”. You know, the distinguished national MPs who recently held parliamentary hearings, where media representatives, journalists from all over Ukraine spoke in the Supreme Council Hall, and there were strong allegations of pressure on freedom of speech, restrictions on freedom of speech in places, and at the centre, in the central media. I ask you, my fellow Members, to support the draft decree establishing a parliamentary interim commission of inquiry that could investigate these facts, give them a proper assessment and do everything possible to ensure that the collapse of freedom of speech in Ukraine does not take place. We suggest that such a commission work for a year, and the first summary of its work is not later than three months later. We also suggest that 10 persons be part of such a temporary commission of inquiry. Please support this project very much, since this applies to all of us, regardless of the faction we are in and of which party we belong, it is important for all of us to have freedom of speech in Ukraine, which has recently been seen and seen as pressurizing individual journalists, newspapers, and how more and more order materials are happening in television news. And you and I have to do everything we can to put this anti-democracy into practice in Ukraine. I ask you very much, my fellow Members, to support this project, and we will demonstrate once again that we have no difference in defending democratic values between us, and that we are all here alone and all of us stand up for the conquests that Ukraine has. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u91	Thank you, Anna Santa! The question is to the reporter? Please sign up for the question. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u92	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Hannah Mikolayevna, well, I'm going to be in favour of your proposal to form a temporary commission of inquiry, because any pressures on freedom of speech are unacceptable. But when I looked at our parliamentary newspaper The Voice of Ukraine, I was very surprised by the selectivity of the approach when the lectures were delivered. You know, I've made a critical statement, including the question that we don't have a parliamentary committee. Do I have the right to say that? Does the people have the right to hear it, or do they have the right to read it? I'd like to ask you who censored Carmazin? Censorship is happening, and not only here, it's, even in parliamentary television, that suddenly comes out of the air, Carmazin, well, it just happens out of the Council. And, please tell me, who gave you Heratchenko Irina Volodymyr from the faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense"? You know she's in charge of the baby right now, and she's hardly going to be able to, well, let's say, visit the board meeting. So it's obvious.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u93	Thank you, Your Honor Yuri Anatolyovich. I can only be with you in one. There's an invitation ban on several channels and I'm on the air, so I understand you very well. In Ukraine, people who are independent do not like what faction or party they belong to. I have to tell you that Irina Heratschenko I consider to be a very high professional, and without considering it, but I know Ira, I know how fast she enters, and renews her strength and will work. [[We want to welcome her all with her baby, give her God's health.]] If you don't think this candidature is right, you have the right to file a faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u94	And they gave it to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u95	There's a faction letter, and according to a faction letter signed by those who ran the faction in you when this decision was registered, you know, it's not my job to pick up your footage. In your faction, pick up the footage, pass it, and we'll accept everyone you suggest, Yuri Anatolyevich. In terms of selectivity, y.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u96	Please finish, Anna Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u97	Regarding the selectivity of newspapers owned by the authorities, not only is the newspaper of the Supreme Council selective, the selective is the “Governmental courier” to which you know it is unlawfully allocated for distribution by the government of 7 million dollars. This is because all the other newspapers, regional newspapers just die of debt. You know the one who pays is the one who orders the music. We don't pay you guys, so you and I don't order music.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u98	Scoobashevsky Stanislav Valerianovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u99	Please pass the word to Vladimir Landik.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u100	Dear Anna Nikolayevna, the whole country heard what our President called when he was a candidate in 2004, and in his “10 steps”, he called it, including public television. To date, no one has created or planned to create public television, but the mechanism for establishing power in the hands of the opposition is not in the hands of the opposition. And when we saw Bondarenko on the 5th channel yesterday, she published those demands for regional state television companies to raise awareness of the leader of BUT, Prime Minister, and to raise awareness without money and show it not for 2-3 minutes, but for hours all those speeches where it was.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u101	Please close the question in a more concise way.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u102	Doesn't it seem to you, Anna Nikolayevna, that there is no public television and will never be in power because they need hand-managed and media-managed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u103	You know, I was in Lviv yesterday and I was asked the same questions in Lviv. And the journalists in Lviv said such a very interesting thing, this windmill power, because they're throwing words in the wind. Therefore, all their promises are known to them, and public television will be in Ukraine by the end of 2010. Viktor Janukovic, as future president, will certainly help us to create public television.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u104	Smithuh Grigori Yudkomovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u105	Garbage, Party of Regions. Dear Anna Mikolayevna, I have two short questions for you. You know what's going on right now is the presidential campaign for the election of the President of Ukraine. Accordingly it is called hidden and not hidden advertising of every candidate to the Presidents on their own program, which should be communicated to every Ukrainian citizen. Don't you count. That state television, including some other channels, restricts individual candidates to the Presidents in the right to report their programme to the people of Ukraine. And is this not a violation of the rights of citizens under the Constitution of Ukraine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u106	I'll tell you more, never before did the state television “UT-1” and neither did the state radio give any information about the activity of the opposition without special requests or threats. You have to call them and say, "Give us our position on the most important event in Ukraine, or I'll go to the parliamentary rostrum and say you're breaking the balance and freedom of speech in Ukraine." Without such a request, no one will ever notice that there is opposition in Ukraine, there are opposition deputies, there is an opposition faction. And so that it does not do good or bad for Ukraine, there will never be a place for it in the news “UT-1”. And that's a very painful question. And so we talked about the fact that the heads of our First State Television should be chosen here rather than appointed.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u107	Sas Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u108	Thank you. Dear Hannah Mikolayevna, well, according to part three of article 89, the Commission’s Constitution is designed for issues of social interest. You know that. Your commission is made up of 5 national deputies, 4 of them are part of one faction - a faction of the Party of the Regions. Or in these circumstances, taking into account the rules of the Investigative Commission Act, which is declared unconstitutional, and the regulations that commissions are created on parity grounds, where all factions should be represented. Under the circumstances that we have today, in the absence of a commission secretary, can you guarantee that you make objective, impartial decisions by your commission? And the subject of the commission's knowledge is extremely broad. You're talking about investigating all the issues, interfering with the authorities all over Ukraine with the media. Can the commission in this capacity ensure that this subject is carried out? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u109	Dear colleague! You know how much I respect you and your position. And I was very sorry when BUT, the BUT faction did not vote here for holding parliamentary hearings in the country on freedom of speech. Because I still think it's a topic that has tremendous public interest and tremendous social resonance. And I'm sorry that your factions didn't want to join such a commission and didn't come in and participate in the development of this, the draft of this decision. What's more, your factions weren't at the committee meeting when we were discussing the matter. I am very sorry that you are moving away from such important questions. But I believe in the objectivity of those deputies on the committee’s list. And I am absolutely convinced that these people are highly professional and very objective and will be able to work for the benefit of all of Ukraine. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u110	Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u111	Dear Anna Nikolayevna, the faction of the Party of the Regions will of course support your decision, as we understand that freedom of speech is at the heart of democracy. There will be no freedom of speech, no democracy in Ukraine. We see power trying to silence a journalist's free voice today. Today, three Heads of State are running for President: the President, the Prime Minister and the Head of the Supreme Council. Please tell me from the point of view of objectivity, which of them, the President, the Prime Minister or the Head of the Supreme Council, Timoshenko, Yushchenko and Litwin, are trying more to impress the journalist's free voice? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u112	I would not want to be subjective here. I will rely only on the complaints of journalists, written complaints that are on the committee. According to them, journalists today do not have the opportunity to ask open questions only to the head of the government of Ukraine, who refuses to answer open questions that cannot be asked unscheduled questions about her briefing, or which directly ignores harsh questions. And when she's asked about one thing, she talks about another. Such complaints from journalists are the most common.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u113	Stonewall Valery Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u114	Kamchatny, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko”, Kharkiv region. Dear Anna Mikolayevno, please tell us what period will be covered by the analysis of the work of your commission, including the famous story with the national deputy Kalashnikov, who has treated himself very well with the media? [[in quotes]] And the second. Which region will you start your research. In particular, I was wondering if you would study the situation in my native Kharkiv district, where the community newspaper Slobidski kraj has long since become the party hub of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u115	Thank you for asking. I would like to tell you that, first of all, Kalashnikov paid for his mistake, and the position of the faction of the Party of Regions, and the Party of Regions was very principled and I would like you to learn such a position in relation to those MPs who despise the press. That one. The other one. Freedom of speech has no party signs. We're going to do the same thing by investigating all kinds of hardships and giving them a proper assessment of freedom of speech wherever they occur and in what area. Let's start with the capital.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u116	Thank you, Anna Santa, sit down, please. Discussing and approving a decision after a break. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 39 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u117	We're continuing our work. Please sign up for the discussion. Pavlovsky Andry Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u118	Respectful fellow citizens, respected national MPs, indeed, need to be supported by the media, all the more so that they are always subjected to violent pressure from both the political side and the owners of information that is politically and economically related to certain politicians. But at the same time, the pressure from the initiators of this decision on, for example, the investigation of the case of “Migiri” and the illegal possession by Mr. Yanukovič of the State residence “Mježirja”, 140 hectares of land, because we have information that owners and TV channels and other information tools, the main editors of the Party of the Regions are being put into a frenzy to keep this topic quiet at all. And there was a recent press conference on the Day of Combating Corruption, and there was a press conference of a number of national deputies, but almost no TV channels gave any information about it. What does this have to do with anything? And the fact that those oligarchs who own almost all the TV channels are directly linked to the Party of the Regions. They're betting on Yanukovich for their cover in the future. Clearly, then, this subject is unpopular, silent. So that's where we need to look for freedom of speech, which should not be those that are closed to consideration that are not acceptable to some presidential candidates. And I want to say that it was at this conference that the relevant documents and the facts were shown, but everything is done so that no one knows about it. I think it's up to all of you to help the media to show, to highlight, so that "Majriya" doesn't become a symbol of corruption in our country. I'm just suggesting that Viktor Yanukovic do as a decent man-- come out of this case, because it should soften the punishment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u119	Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u120	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Honorable colleagues, three thoughts or three questions. First of all, a respected colleague mentioned that the Prime Minister, the President, and the Speaker of Parliament are candidates for the Presidents. That's true. But in order to be more objective, I will say that only the Chief of the Supreme Council, Vladimir Litwin, went on vacation during the run, so that there is no indication that he could use any resources, administrative resources, as an official. I think it's a demonstration, it's a principle position. By the way, as I think, other candidates who hold high office both in parliament and in factional leadership, traveling to the office of President of Ukraine, could also go on vacation. By the way, it's also legislation that requires, and just basic common sense requires that there be equal opportunities for all candidates. That's the first one. One second. Is the subject of investigation or investigation proposed by the interim commission of inquiry? But surely they are, Your Honor. Well, let's face it, is there no pressure from officials on the media? Yes. Whether this pressure is increasing during the electoral campaign. Thank you. I'll ask you a question, and you answer yes. Is it increasing? Of course, it's getting bigger. Do national MPs, who are the subjects of an authority whose missions, parliament, are also to exercise control? Easy, no hysteria, no indignation, professional control. Of course there is. The only thing I'd like to do is maybe pay attention if the authors of the legislative initiative want that the pressure is being exerted not only by the authorities of the state and the local government, their officials, but also by the political parties and their officials. You understand very well that the possibilities of political parties in the parliamentary and presidential republic today, when the formations and authorities of the local government and the state authorities are carried out on a party basis, on a pari passu principle, that the role of political parties and their leaders and senior officials is also very great. [[Such an electoral system, unfortunately, is today]] And unfortunately, there are cases of real pressure from these very categories of politicians, powerful authorities, worthy of the media. So I think you could add exactly what I said here. And purely editorial. It seems to me that the commission is called "investigative matters" and then goes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u121	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u122	And then there's "the other pressure messages," and I think it's editorially necessary to fix it, because we're not investigating the message, you know? We're investigating cases that might be reflected in some media reports. So I'm going to suggest that we edit it. And what I'm saying is that in the presence of a commission, which would be a hindrance, well, if you want to, in such a frightening way, in a good way, to not allow yourself to be pressured by journalists, to the fourth power, there must be everyone. And by the way, the previous speech also shows that it's worth it to have this kind of control on the part of Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u123	The discussion is over. It's a closing statement. Herman Hanna Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u124	Dear colleagues, statements from this rostrum have shown that there is an understanding of the importance of not allowing pressure on the media. And I believe that all the factions in Parliament are voting for the establishment of such a parliamentary commission. There was a question here that the press conference, which, by the way, was on the live air of the representatives of BUTU about, on the subject of Intergrey was not explained, it was going on live. At the same time, I can ask another question. For a week, political parties and social organizations have been taking care of the property that Julia Timoshenko lives in. I didn't see any information about it on any channel, and even in any media related to the Internet, so in order to be completely open and transparent, we have to stand up for freedom of speech here with you. We need to create this commission and jointly control all cases of suppression of freedom of speech, regardless of whose side the pressure is exerting. We know that power, every authority loves humble media, everyone loves humble media, but society has to have free media and we are here in Parliament and we have to help the media to do that. I urge all those who are expensive principles of freedom of speech, freedom of speech in Ukraine and democratic principles in our society to vote for the establishment of a temporary commission. Non-voting, as in the case of non-voting parliamentary hearings here, will testify that those political forces that do not vote in favour of investigating the facts of freedom of speech have renounced the principles and principles of democratic society in our state.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u125	Puts the vote to the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues in terms of composition, we'll take the basis, then we'll adjust the composition. So there's no questions. It is based on the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine “On the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the involvement of State authorities and local self-government, their officials in the activities of the media”. [[Registration number 4588]] Please vote. [[12:50:49]] For 247 Decision taken. Now, please sign up for suggestions regarding the content of the draft decision. Hare Ivan Alexanderovich, please. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u126	Yuri Carmazin. I thank our democratic rabbit for giving my word. Ladies and gentlemen, I see the conclusion here, the head of the Committee on Rules, the MP's ethics, which says there's no funds. But we have item six of the information to put on the Supreme Council's apparatus, information security. Maybe then put, write down, it's material and technical and personnel security for the Freedom of Speech Committee. Still, meetings are not held. And it's still the same budget money. Thank God you were. Thank God you were. And I wish we didn't always do what you know, an eye for an eye. There, 140 of them were stolen into the states of the hectares, and the point is that someone is hiring. Thank God that the bums, the bums, are the ones who don't take the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u127	Makinko Vladimir Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u128	I ask Ephraim to pass on the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u129	Efraemov Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u130	Dear colleagues! This raises a question for the people who are represented on this Commission. I would like to recall that there is a positive conclusion on this commission by the regulatory committee. The Regulatory Committee in its decisions is governed solely by the laws and regulations that we have. According to the Rules, those who set up commissions shall be treated accordingly in factions. If the faction has not responded within five days, the person who forms the commission has the right to submit the number of members of the daily commission with the persons proposed on that commission. Therefore, if the factions now wish to complement the commission, they have the right to do so. But this cannot be the reason for us today to come forward with the approval of this commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u131	Chechtov Mikhailo Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u132	Dear Alexander Vladimirovich! Dear colleagues! I would like to thank all factions for their support for the initiative of the member of the Anna Herman Faction Party for the establishment of a commission for the protection of freedom of speech and freedom of journalism, because it is this attribute of freedom of speech that is at the heart of democracy in Ukraine. With regard to the draft decision, I think it has been made as balanced as possible and in the light of the explanation of Alexander Sergeevich Efremov. I request that it be put to the vote in general so that the draft regulation can be adopted. The establishment of today's commission has begun. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u133	Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u134	Thank you. Once again, I was in the rostrum to address Ukraine’s overpowered national deputies, who support Kabmin. It is clear that your conduct towards making statements, appeals, from the rostrum is being voted by the President of Ukraine for the future, that is clear, and that is absolutely justified. But I think you will agree with me that the opposition has the right, like all Ukrainian national MPs, to control the course of the electoral campaign, especially how and how information policy is being implemented in Ukraine, which is known to be guaranteed by the relevant articles of the Constitution of Ukraine. That's why I'm calling on MPs from the predominant factions of the coalition to support this bill. And please, colleagues, don't lose your face, don't fall so low anymore, stop moving on to the person who gave it to who deserved it, who deserved it. It's going to take a little time, after February 6, we're going to give you all the answers, and you're going to understand, on all the questions that you're in so much pain.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u135	National Deputy Vasiliev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u136	Please pass the word to Efraem Alexander Sergeevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u137	Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u138	Colleges, the establishment of this commission, are extremely important. You know, there was a Prime Minister Timoshenko in Luhansk three days ago. And when I asked the correspondents who were present at her press conference, what are you asking these questions that are not relevant to the Luhansk region today? They answered me, said Alexander Sergeyevich, we were told the notes and told strictly that we should ask questions only on the notes we were given, not on the issues we had. These facts can be checked familially, you don't have to be upset, they are. Indeed, Timoshenko is using the full programme. Therefore, by creating these commissions, we must enable the media to freely provide information to those who need it. I don't want anyone to hide anything from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u139	Zibenko Peter Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u140	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the faction of the Company of Ukraine did not vote in favour of this draft decree and did so knowingly. First of all, let's just stress once again that we're trying to replace the profile committees by special temporary investigators. It's unacceptable, it's absolutely the subject of knowing the relevant profile committee that's supposed to be working on it. This is the first time. Secondly, two days of reports from the interim commission of inquiry, which we've been listening to for two days, have shown that in most cases they're completely unconstructive. And that's why they don't do the tasks that should be decided by law. And the third. You know, I want to say that, as in today's newscasts and any other broadcasts, there were only five candidates in the MPs. The Presidents of Ukraine, who the authorities say are the highest rating, will be the same after the commission is established.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u141	Dear colleagues! No project suggestions available, text. So I have a request, please, for someone who has a proposal for a decree to raise their hands and you can make them. Now it's Zarubinsky Oleg Aleksandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u142	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, just as I made suggestions during my speech and discussion, once again I would like to say that, I think the subject of the investigation should be interference: (a) the authorities of the State; (b) local self - government and their officials. And yet I'm stressing that often the subjects of pressure are political parties as structures and their functionaries, if that were to be taken into account? And the second moment is editorial. I would like to stress once again what is called the Commission on Case Investigation and Other Reports. Editorially, it's not exactly journalistic. It's completely incorrect, from the point of view, just editing, let's say, the names of the commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u143	The proposal was Kožemyakin Andriy Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u144	Dear colleagues! The Bill of July Timoshenko faction will support the draft of Decree 4588, provided that we now propose the nominations of our national deputies from our faction, and they will join this commission. We'd like to propose three of our national MPs -- this is National Deputy Kurpil Stepan, this is National Deputy Bondarenko Helen, and this is National Deputy Kosov Mikhailo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u145	Any more suggestions? There are no more suggestions. Dear colleagues! There is a need to vote separately on the proposal of the Zarubinsky People's Deputy, or we can take it into account now when voting in general. Is there no objection? I then put to the vote the whole draft Decree establishing the Provisional Inquiry Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the interference of State authorities and local self-government, their officials, and beyond the text, including the proposal by Zarubinsky's deputy, taking into account the proposals made by the head of the “Blok of Yulia Timoshenko” faction. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:00:34]] For 277 Decision taken. Honorable Fellows, 1:00 p.m. We're going to sign up for “Victane”. Stojko Ivan Mihajlovich, please. Please, Kenzior Jaroslav Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u146	Jaroslav Kenzior, “For Ukraine” MP. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished fellow national MPs! Today, I want to bring up a topic that may not have sounded at the national level, a topic that is very local, to some extent personal. But I think she does have a right to speak here. The point is that Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk, head of the National Movement of Ukraine, was filed with the father of the deceased in a car accident along with Vijacheslav Cnervol Sergey Pavlov. You remember this scary, this killing on the Borispilla route. What did the father of the deceased son turn to? I quote: “Please consider providing me with material assistance for an operation to remove the cataracts of both eyes in the amount of 12,000 dollars. In view of my retirement and care for my sick wife, Paul’s Tamara Petrovna, 74 years old, who has been confined to bed for more than 10 years, we do not have such expenses for surgery. With respect, the father of the late Paul Eugen Sergiyovich. Pavlov Sergei Mihajlovich." So it would seem that maybe the political party, indeed the political actor, the Ukrainian national deputy, who was so generous during the election campaign, was financed by Prime Minister Yulia Timoshenko in order, as it were, to lure into his environment, could not find 12,000 dollars for this man to help in such a necessary right case? After all, only three national deputies from the National Movement of Ukraine were able to fall and gather. What does that say? About absolute worthlessness, the total moral decline of the leaders of the People's Movement of Ukraine. They were pained by the claim made by the father of the late Paul Eugen. We, the “For Ukraine!” MP, have collected these funds and will hand them over today to the family of Paul. But the motors have to appreciate who the leader of the People's Movement of Ukraine is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u147	Please, Valentin Sergiyovich. Teeth Valentin Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u148	Thank you. Valentin Zubov, "Bloku Yulia Timoshenko" faction. Dear colleagues! Dear friends! I have just returned from the district, and this is Crimea, and I have been approached by the president of Professor Crimetrolebus, Azimtsi's comrades. He addressed, in my view, a very serious topic. The fact is that we have all been working on an old pattern over the past 18 years of economic reform, i.e. economic reforms instead of putting into the hands of private capital the losses, mostly small medium-sized enterprises, we are trying to put very serious enterprises into the hands of private capital. But there's a lot of these businesses. They work on the same pattern. The oligarchs do this. The enterprise is interesting, with the help of the administration, it is suppressed, reduced to zero, and then privatized, practically, for nothing. This is also the most serious enterprise in the situation – Crimean-leibus in Crimea, the central enterprise. A unique enterprise in the sense that it provides a route from Simferopol to Alushta, Yalta, provides resters and every year, means that it provides millions of resters, mostly people in need of material assistance. And here I am being reported by the representatives of the enterprise that someone in Crimea has already put their eyes on this enterprise, and they are creating all the conditions to privatize it at no cost, and then get it in order to secure their business. And this process is very actively continuing. On 21 November 2008, the Court of Commerce of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea had already begun bankruptcy proceedings. But still, you know what's going to happen next is going to work. The following is meant. Someone has already put their eyes on it, and they know perfectly well that when a normal organization is in place, the budget can receive huge sums. But obviously, those who want to privatize Crimetrolleybus in that way, obviously want to do everything they can to make everything go according to the plan that it is. Therefore, I would like to consider and request the leadership of the Supreme Council that my statement today should be seen as an official request, a deputy request to the Attorney-General's Office to determine who is specifically involved in the bankruptcy procedure of Crimeantrolleybus, who is behind it. Criminal proceedings must be brought against the people involved accordingly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u149	Arzhevtin Stanislav Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u150	Stanislaw Arzhevtin, a deputy group “For Ukraine!” I have been instructed to announce an application from the Association of Ukrainian Banks. Dear voters, distinguished national MPs, bankers and clients of the banking system! In November of this year, a council of law enforcement officials was held at the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine to increase opposition to theft, robbery, and robbery. As a result of this advice, prosecutors were assigned to check the availability of adequate security systems in banking institutions. In the event of irregularities, take steps to bring individual bank managers to account for service negligence. As the head of the Association of Ukrainian Banks Council, I would like to point out that, as of today, the institutions of banks have consistently adhered to the requirements of legislation regarding the level of technical equipment and the organization of the protection of their activities and premises. This is reflected in the results of regular checks by the National Bank of Ukraine aimed at detecting deficiencies in the banking system. Failure by individual banks to comply with the above requirements may be a reason for the National Bank to use influence measures to prohibit the execution of such or other banking operations. Therefore, to our profound conviction, the efforts of the prosecutor's office, the Ministry of Internal Affairs should be focused on something else, and above all on the issue of timely warning, investigation and prosecution of the criminal responsibility of persons for their theft, robbery and robbery against banking institutions. In other words, we should not allow the notion to be confused when, instead of identifying direct perpetrators of crime, the search for the guilty is carried out among those who have actually suffered from the crime. According to unofficial reports, no recent robbers have been convicted in Ukraine today, who have recently committed a robbery against banking institutions. Given the importance of building and continuously improving the security systems of the banks of Ukraine, the Association of Ukrainian Banks, bankers over the past few years have been unsuccessfully trying to solve one of the most important problems of bank protection, which is to allow the internal protection of firearms banks to be used. Because it is known that criminals who prepare for crime can most often be armed far better than bank protection. So far, however, the only structure in Ukraine that has the right to provide payment services, I would like to emphasise the payment services, because they are tens of billions of dollars from the banking system, and they have the right to use different firearms only by the State Security Service, which is part of the interior ministry. That is why the position of the government and the interior ministry hampers a positive solution to the issue of equipping bank security units with different firearms. And it's done on purpose. Because the tens of billions that are paid by the banking system for the benefit of the public security service that monopolizes these services is the answer to questions and why, including such expensive loans today. So I'm particularly going to the deputies, the committees, where this bill is decided, to eventually end the monopoly, the monopoly of the State Security Service, and allow bank security to use firearms. Because in many parts of the world, this service is not provided solely by the State. Well, given that I still have a little bit of time left, I'd like to welcome all the bankers, I'd like to welcome the customers of the banking system, because this year the banking system has been through a very difficult time, and the main thing is the banking system has survived, the banking system has made payments, the banking system has reduced the loan portfolio a little bit, and the credit partner's decline has been between 5 and 6 percent. And when it comes to interest rates, this year the legal entity’s lending system dropped by 16.5 percent. More than 30 banks that need state aid in part of the capitalization today have received such assistance. And capitalized banks today, which until recently have been problematic, are making full payments today, paying deposits. In the following year, the banking system is awaiting several recapitalisation reforms to reform the Population Guarantee Fund. The budget for the following year has set aside 50 billion dollars to capitalize those troubled banks that need protection from the state. And I think that these funds will also be used to strengthen the banking system. So next year, I think the banking system is going to come in even stronger, because when it's been over a year, it's still been able to hold on to the very main thing -- to apologize for the loans, to reduce interest rates, to capitalize, that is, to strengthen, even more trust in the banking system. And the very main gift that customers made to the banking system -- this year almost 17 billion dollars will return to the bank system's deposits. Thank you very much to these Ukrainians who understand when they store their money in a banking institution that in turn supports the real economy, that is the way out of the crisis. And one more thing. That I'd like to finish. Tomorrow in Kiev, Zacarpathian Intelligence, the Carpathian elite, is conducting its assembly. And from this rostrum, I would like to welcome all the participants in this convention, and I would like to wish them luck in Kiev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u151	Hare Ivan Alexanderovich, 6 minutes. The next MP, Davidenko, gives him his minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u152	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to draw your attention to three questions. The first question is the National Budget of Ukraine. As you know, the Supreme Council does not have a 2010 draft of the State Budget for Ukraine today, and I don't think you'll have one. Why? Because it's going to be the whole pre-election game. You have to take a budget pretty hard, but there's no political will to do that. The government then introduced us to the Supreme Council a completely populist draft budget and thought that this budget would be running in the corridors of the Supreme Council all the time. But the Supreme Council sent the budget back to the Cabinet of Ministers, and another version could already be expected. However, this version is not available. Minfin, I think I could do this job in 10 or 15 days, but. There's probably no concept, no concept given by the Cabinet of Ministers to the State Budget. So I suggest in this situation that we focus the attention of the Supreme Council on the preparation for the adoption of the State Budget, to look at those bills that relate to either the expenditure or the income article. The Ukrainian People's Party, a group of deputies, passed a bill – amendments to the Ukrainian Armed Forces Act – number 5422. [[on the provision of adequate funding]] I suggest that we consider it as a matter of urgency, and we propose that we bring the financing of the Ukrainian Armed Forces to 2 percent of the gross domestic product. That's what will revive the army, that's what will bring the GDP to development, that's another way I don't see how we can today provide security, security, how we can revive the work of the internal gross product today. If we hope only for the figure that will be in the State budget, taking into account the downward trend in funding, we will fall out of this process at all. The second question I want to draw your attention to is the President's Election Act. I have tabled 84 amendments to the President's election bills. And today we see proof of my rightfulness. It is the decision of the Central Electoral Commission 475 of 12.12. This year, where the Central Election Commission is actually rewriting. it's a copy of our law. It empowers a district election commission to include voters on the electoral list without the authorities of the People’s Election Register. This will lead to the fact that there is no telling what will be done. If we also consider the situation that, in shaping the leadership of the District Election Commissions, the CEVC essentially violated proportionality, and that's why we see a tendency for leaders to be of the two typically political forces. It's from the Party of Regions or from the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. And this process goes to the electoral boards, and then you don't have to run an election, you just have to divide the power between these two political powers. And the third question. This is a question of another initiative by the Ukrainian National Party. We proposed a bill to stop eventually privatizing public libraries, bookstores and publishing. We see local authorities abuse their powers and destroy this network that has provided the Ukrainians with some level of intellectual development. We see that today they can throw out any library, any publication to sell there, which goods are unknown to what origin and what quality. The state has to intervene in this process eventually. We know these same constants. The constant demands and booksellers "Sweevo" and many, many other structures. So I ask the Supreme Council, once again, to weigh intellectual property in this direction to look at and make a normal decision. And one last question. There's a lot of talk about government officials, politicians having to declare not only taxes, but also expenses, and there are some changes to the Law on Corruption that have already been made, and they've been working since the new year. But you have to make procedures, such that this rule doesn't make this bill dead, because everyone sees how the most loved relatives of politicians today become either parents, or aunties, because everything is copied to these people, everything is controlled, and they're like, in Parliament, they're so poor, they have this kind of income, what they want when you read these tax declarations. So we have to take a civilized European path, eventually we have to separate power from business. We know the nature of this increase in power because we didn't then reflect the comparative nomenclature, in the early 1990s. And those people who had power over the Soviet Union actually owned all of the property of the Soviet Union, jumped into an independent Ukraine, dragged that power, divided that property with them, and they have power today, and they have ownership today. At first, the oligarchs influenced the activity of power, and now the authorities are interfering with economic processes. It is therefore necessary to adopt Bill 1429-1 again from a group of deputies from the Ukrainian People's Party, where all the procedures for the declaration of expenditure are laid down. We need to know how our politicians live, whether they live for their wages, whether they work for the sake of harmony, or whether they live for the money they steal from their people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u153	Cibenko Peter Stepanovich, 6 minutes. The same is true of Yuri Alexandrovich Hajdava’s regular time.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u154	Thank you. Communist faction, Petr Cibenko, President of the Council of Veterans Organizations of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! On Wednesday, 16 December, during this week, during the so-called gap, i.e. at the beginning of the sessional meeting, one of the fellow members of the BUT Prime faction tried to assess the work and decisions of the Fifth Plenary of the Organization of Veterans of Ukraine, doing so completely biasedly and improperly. Perhaps it would be right if I, as President of the Council of Veterans Organizations of Ukraine and the head of the plenary, were to make this clear. So, from 10 to 11 November 2009, the Fifth Plenary of the Council of Veterans Organization of Ukraine, considering the position of the Organization of Ukrainian Veterans in the upcoming elections of the President of Ukraine, decided to support the candidate of the left and left-wing bloc of the leader of the Ukrainian Company, Petr Nikolaevich Simonenko. Moreover, by decision of the plenary, as President of the Council, I was asked to sign, on behalf of the organization, a cooperation agreement for the period of the electoral campaign and the full term of the constitutional mandate of Petr Nikolaevich Simonenko in the event of his victory in the elections. This was and remains the position of most members of the multi-million-dollar organization of Ukrainian veterans, which is the basis for this decision. This choice is absolutely conscious, since, as the most intelligent life experience in society, veteranism is well aware of the fact that capitalism is the root cause, the cornerstone of all the difficulties faced by veterans, the entire working people of Ukraine, and the service they have employed by cave nationalists, it is absolutely clear and undeniable. Of the many presidential candidates, only the candidate of the left and left centrist forces - Petr Nikolaevich Simonenko has proposed a clear, clear and realistic programme to combat capitalism, as the root cause of veteran distress, an effective programme for the return of power and ownership to the working people of Ukraine. All other candidates, who have been in power for 20 post-Soviet years, destroyed Ukraine and its working people, are going to elections with an anti-national programme to further strengthen capitalism, which means that the continued impoverishment and extinction of the golden generation of the country, such as veteranism, are the harsh realities of the electoral campaign. I believe and believe that the Council of the Organization of Veterans of Ukraine was not only in the law but also under an obligation to express the Council's position on the matter. He expressed it on the basis of the sentiments of most veterans. On the basis of a reference, only two of the 87 members of the Council who participated in the plenary voted against and three abstained, i.e. by an absolute majority. As President of the Council, I have an obligation to defend the decisions of the Council and to do so by all legal means available. And the second topic that I would like to raise, taking advantage of the opportunity of the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, is the following, regrettably, the majority of our voters, especially veterans, are not available to the Internet and this gap, I would like to eliminate, by providing information on one of the materials that appeared on the Internet today. This is from New Region correspondent Alexei Usova, who is called “Georgia has decided to blow up a memorial of military glory”. And its contents are as follows. In Georgia, the authorities decided to dismantle the Soviet monument in honour of the victory over fascism. The memorial was established in Kutaisi in the early 1980s by sculptor Merab Berzenishvili. A new Georgian Parliament building will be built at the site of the monument, moving from the capital. The subversion of the monument was scheduled for December 21st, the birthday of President Mikhail Saakashvili. The Georgian opposition considered the demolition of the monument to be an act of vandalism. Created in the early 1980s by sculptor Berzenishvili Memorial of Fascism, which began on 12 December, will be blown up in a few days. It is called two dates – 20 and 21 December. The Kutaisi authorities responded to the vandalism charge that the memorial was looted in the 1990s. Bronze parts of the monument and most of its fragments were stolen. There is therefore no way to restore this memorial. In addition, it is located near the territory where a complex of Georgian Parliament buildings will be built and it has been decided to dismantle the memorial. Comments from representatives of the Georgian authorities. The representatives of the Georgian opposition believe that the day has not been chosen by chance. Next week, Michael Saakashvili will celebrate his birthday, and he will receive this gift of his own. “This vandalism and such an ideology of denial of authority is a distinctive feature of the current Georgian authorities,” said one of the leaders of the Republic Party of Georgia, David Brezenishvili. In Georgia, some 700,000 people fought on the fronts of the Great Homeland War, each other unfortunately did not return from the Great Homeland War. In commenting on this communication, one can only comment on it in this way. The human mind has limits, and stupidity, and I would add to it, and human submission has no limits. Because to blow up a monument to Fascism veterans in the year 65 of the Great Victory over Fascism is the tip of cynicism that the authorities of Georgia have come to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u155	Kosov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u156	Mikhailo Kosov, Timoshenko Street. Dear countrymen, Ukrainians! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that today the newspaper of the Supreme Council “The Voice of Ukraine” published the pre-election programme for President Yanukovič Viktor Fedorovich of Ukraine, which states in chapter five that I am in favour of granting Russian the status of the second state. There is nothing unusual about such a promise, because just a year ago, the Party of Regions adopted its political agenda, which stated that we are firmly opposed to the use of state institutions for the violent Ukrainianization and exclusion of other languages, particularly Russian from the sphere of official communication of media, science, education and culture. We will strive for the Russian language of the status of the second state with the legislative consolidation of the right of regions to introduce an additional third official language in their territory, which will be equal to the national language of rights. We, the consistent proponents of the slogan “Two Languages – One People”, may claim to be a specialist philosopher for education that this is complete absurdity. There is no one who has two languages. When called, for example, in Switzerland, there are four ethnic groups — four historical nations that have their territory, their history, and their language — and that is why all their languages are national languages. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that in this program, representatives of the Party of the Regions promise to oppose the imposition of a monoethnic formula for civil and national development of language and cultural identity. But if this becomes a state program and they will do it, and they will do it, I would like to ask what will remain of Ukraine. There's nothing left. But now I would like to address my patriotic countrymen, the real patriots, who are constantly, including, and today from this room are considered Julia Timoshenko the greatest enemy of Ukraine and the greatest danger. In doing so, making way for such candidates and programs that I have just read. Be careful, people.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u157	Ribuk Sergey Mikolaiovich, six minutes and the rules of Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u158	Ribuk, faction of the Party of the Regions, Zitomirščina. Recently, when all of us national deputies worked in the districts, I too had the privilege of carrying out the commission of my faction of the Party of Regions to visit four circuits a week in the Gitomir region of nine areas that were most affected by the Chernobyl tragedy. The question of Chernobyl is not only the day we recently laid the crowns lying on Chernobyl, the tragedy, but it is still relevant to the Ukrainian people today, to the state, and especially to my native Zitomirsk, because there are 323,000 affected citizens living on its territory, and among them 91 percent live in radioactively polluted areas. At the same time, the recipients of the aid, compensation and aid need 680,000, most of which are receiving and should receive social assistance under the Chernobyl Act. But in the area, the issue of acute imbalances in actual social assistance needs remains unresolved, as required by the law, which is consistent with the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster with the regulatory framework. I brought with me a whole set of letters, statements, tearful petitions, angry letters that the Supreme Council, the government of the state, the state itself, come back face to face with us, the black people who live there, begging with what question today is one: why don't we, even, "the graves" issue? Because we don't have a job, we're all unemployed. Because they stopped long ago, and factories, and factories, and no agriculture, everything grows with bushes, tails, wetlands. But we are only living on account of this social assistance, so give us at least the grave, as they were misnamed, but it's real enough that we could at least be human in turn to bury each other. People live there and mass unemployment, they're desperate. And so, if you count it, there are already cases that have been brought before the courts of the State by these people who have been demolished by Chernobyl and abandoned by the present state. Think about it! Ninety-eight thousand 900 cases are already in court. And the courts are pulling, I'll tell you, the rubber. And the authorities don't listen, and people are just desperate and desperate. And these are not tens, hundreds of thousands of people. Already the Supreme Council, the Cabinet of Ministers, has received 41 appeals from the area throughout this period. And it's not properly considered or taken into account. So let me put it this way, for days the nation respected the memory of the fallen in the fight against the Chernobyl disaster -- it did the right thing. Flowers have been laid. I can tell you're in a hurry. Thank you, but let's think together, without politics and politics, without malice at each other. For those who live in the Chernobyl area and remain alone. Let's think about the living, or still alive, they have the right to life. And our memory will then be real, then sincere, then frank, when we help the Malin region, and Corstene and Corstene region, and Orutsky, and Narodicki, and Olewsky, and Milchinsky, where my countrymen live, and not only in Zitomirsk, but also in Chernigovishka, it does not matter. I want the government to listen, and I don't need to borrow and look for a billion to fight the flu, but to implement the laws that are, including the aid law, social assistance to people who live in affected areas. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u159	Gnatkevich Yuri Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u160	Yuri Gnatkević, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. In recent times, the term “corruption” has been increasingly used in our social life. We're talking about corruption here in the Supreme Council, and the President recently talked about corruption when he brought together the leaders of the power structures, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Attorney General, the head of the BSS, and accused them of fighting badly, the people he appointed with corruption. We were talking about corruption yesterday when we were looking at the Crimean question, and I'd like to interpret it as a linguist, an ex, what corruption is. In a dictionary published by the Kyiv City Council for State Officials, corruption is a bribe and a sale of public, public, and political actors. It's an increase in public authorities and organized crime structures, which is what we just talked about yesterday, what's going on in Crimea. This is corruption, the rise of public authorities with the structures of crime. The corrupter, it says in the dictionary, is the official person who takes bribes. But why does Ukraine hold the highest or lowest position on the state with our corruption? Why are we champions of corruption around the world? I don't think the President, the Prime Minister, the Supreme Council is responsible. There must be deep reasons that give rise to this phenomenon, and they, these reasons, are. You know, when I was sitting on the first call from '90s to '94 here in the front row, where young communist Sergey Hrapov sits when we passed the Privatization Act thinking, who's going to buy it? Well, someone can buy a kiosk. And who can buy a factory, a factory, who can buy a "Criminal"? And “a robbery began in the middle of the day. ” Before that, he was appointed President of Kuchma. He closed his eyes and watched the looting of government property. I don't think that if it wasn't for Kuchma, something would have been different. Because there has been a process of massive robbery under low social and political morality. Finally, yesterday we were talking about the Herson Combin factory, which indicates that it is, this is still going on. So what happened next? I've watched how people are "nationally unconcerned," we're called Communists, Ukrainian National Patriots. But people with non-Ukrainian names take factories, create television companies, and compete to steal more from the state, or national property. It is now difficult to find among the richest ten people in Ukraine people of ethnic Ukrainian origin. I've got six minutes, Belarus asked for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u161	Yes, Billorus Oleg Grigorovich is handing over his order to Deputy Gnatkevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u162	Yes, yes, thank you. What did the National Patriots do? And the National Patriots competed to create public parties, which they then split up, and each split, they still pricked. They competed to prove to everyone, one of us Ukrainians, who is the greatest patriot. Now they have what they have. What would our new leadership be up to, President, who wouldn't? Obviously, we need to unite the people. Look at the Poles. They are united by one God, by one faith, by one language, and I have not heard anything about the Polish stealing billions and taking them to offshore. We need to connect. With what? Perhaps they believe in God. Show me, then, how many people who sincerely believe in God are afraid of sin. Not only is there a concept of crime but there is a concept of sin. They are few, and if so, they pray only for themselves. Ukraine, unfortunately, has been dismal, not even the church has indicated that it has stolen a factory, it is a sinner. I kept my mouth shut. Unity is national, I said, we're all Ukrainians. You know, I spend a lot of time abroad. Here I come, Berlin. They are young Germans and speak German. I'm going to Cracow, I've been there, there's young Poles -- they speak Polish. I was in Petersburg recently. The young Russians stand -- they speak Russian. I was in Istanbul. Young Turks speak Ukrainian. I come to Kiev, and I don't hear from young people, and not only from young people, I don't hear Ukrainian. And language is our national code. So we recently had a hearing in the Supreme Council about this problem. And we've come to the conclusion that Ukraine is largely deuced and nationalized. The cosmopolitanism of power and the absence of national bourgeoisies, that is, national rich people, is now our problem in coping with corruption. Patriotism is replaced by patriotism, excuse me, a gastric tract, and patriotism is replaced by the pompous state, which has more – the better car. So who has a better date and where it is in Medjugorje or somewhere else? So corruption is sales and it has deep reasons in Ukraine. It's a common culture of people, of society, it's its social and political state, and it's a political culture, it's a level of national awareness and a level of morality, including spiritual morality. I think the new president is going to have a very difficult time fighting just through the prisons and the prosecutors. That won't do much good. Spirituality, morals, and national consciousness in Ukraine need to be promoted. I think Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko will be president. Not only are the astrologers talking about this, my wife told me yesterday that she was listening to the broadcast, but my voters who said that whoever they didn't vote for in the first round, or Kostenka, or for Dragnibok, or for the speaker in Lithuania, or for Yushchenka in the second round, they would vote for Julia Timoshenko. I believe that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u163	Pavlovsky Andry Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u164	Good afternoon, fellow citizens! Andrew Pavlovski, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. I would like to refer to you and point out that yesterday at its meeting, the Supreme Council approved two important bills that protect our constitutional rights with you to obtain full and reliable information on what products we consume, what quality they are. This is about the adoption of bills that determine that food labels should now be marked, this product with genetically modified organisms, or it should be free of GMOs. So, Your Honor, pay attention to the labels and think about what you and I are using. I would also like to say, fellow citizens, that your attention to another subject is very painful on the subject of corruption. And the symbol of corruption in recent years has been the illegal possession of state residence and 140 hectares of state land in Medjugorje by one of the presidential candidates. And I want to say that right now, both from Yushchenka and Yanukovich, this cute couple is creating a tremendous amount of pressure to prevent an objective investigation into the circumstances of this case, not to allow this property to be returned to the State. Why did this happen? Not because one actually got this huge government property for nothing, but the other, I mean Yushchenka, on Janukovich's birthday in July 2007, actually donated so much government property. This is corruption when the highest public officials are involved in this matter. I want to point out that the main problem in the state right now is that 90 percent of economic life in the state is controlled by ten families called oligarchs in the people. And in fact, whatever the color of the political oligarchs, the cover is Yushchenko and Yanukovic. It is not because a prominent Russian official, Boris Berezowski, appealed to the country’s largest oligarchs, as he says, to turn on the convulsive instincts and with a beastly enthusiasm to unite around Yashchenk, for he will best protect the blood interests of the oligarchy. What about the interests of the common people? So let's think about what we're doing.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u165	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u166	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! Dear Ukrainian people! I want to turn to this high-level rostrum about the issues that have hurt my voters today, who are writing from Mikolayev about the enormous threats, the tremendous threats to the economy in the country. For example, the deterioration of agricultural production, which is intended for export of about 5,000 tons, is stored in the Nebulon overcrowded reservoirs. The threat of the collapse of export contracts under the terms of the World Food Programme tender from the supply of 60,000 tons of food wheat to the Government of Ethiopia. The threat of collapse of the export contracts of the tender, according to a tender by the Government of the People's Republic of Bangladesh for the supply of 100,000 tons of food wheat. Stimulating an investment project for the development of waterways and increasing export capacity of 1 million tons per year. As a result, the budget loses some 25 million dollars in income tax, and government maritime transport companies that are subordinated to the Minrance do not keep up with about $6 million in port congregations each year. And all this for what? Because of the fact that one commander, the captain of the Mykolai port, has exceeded his authority, prohibits the passage to the Nibulon pier of the “Preventer” ship under the load of some 60,000 tons of barley. As a result, more than two months ago, this vessel is on a forced base, and every day $45,000 a day is spent on it. People are good, but what happens when the state does not implement the decision of the Mikolai District Administration, when the officials of the Mintrance and the state-owned enterprise, think about it! – “Mikolai Sea Trade Port”. The pilot is ignored? The President of Ukraine is repeatedly addressed as a guarantor of the Constitution, and this is not being done, and his prescriptions are not being implemented. The damage is already in the company of more than $3 million. The decisions of the Mikolai District Economic Court that have entered into legal force are not being implemented. Moreover, not only are legal requirements not being met, but the ministerial servants are ignoring them. The port manager is presumptuously refusing to accept executive documents from the executioner and obstructing the exercise of official authority. Attempts continue to be made and criminal cases, including those involving the hero of the Ukraine of Vadatursk. And that's all I'm asking you to consider as the MP's request to the Henprocurator's office, to the Ukrainian government, personally to Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko. And despite the fact that the Antimonopoly Committee has also violated the Competition Act. And finally, let me, dear friends, express our heartfelt sympathy.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u167	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u168	Thank you. Let me express my sympathy personally, from the Party of Protectors of the Motherland newspaper and from all readers of the newspaper “Silly News” in relation to what came out of life is an outstanding person, our deputy Ivan Vasilovich Spudarenko, a multi-year, invariable editor of the newspaper “Silski News”. There are no editors like that anymore. His eternal memory. And I think we're going to respond by paying attention to this newspaper that we loved, and I think we're going to do it even better. Thank you for being able to say words to a colleague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u169	Young Andrey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u170	Papuy Andry, “Our Ukraine”. A venerable Ukrainian community! I would like to state responsiblely that today there remains a great threat and the possibility of falsifications during the presidential election on January 17, 2010. For several months now, the whole state has been observing this era that has unfolded around the adoption of this law, which is extremely important in today's conditions of Ukrainian democracy. We remember how here, in that session hall, BUT and the Party of Regions passed this law. Then both President Yushchenko of Ukraine and the whole public and experts said that the law contained a very large number of violations, which not only overturn some of the provisions of the Constitution, but create a very wide field of counterfeiting during the elections. After that, the President of Ukraine submitted to the Constitutional Court his own position. The Constitutional Court has removed a number of the most controversial and most convertible provisions of this bill. But, nevertheless, there are a number of gaps in this law that need to be corrected and that we together should order here, in this room, according to the law. In particular, there remains one of the most dangerous moments in the Presidential Elections Act, which allows for the election day to change voter lists. And it is this point that creates the most opportunities for different parts of politics that can target and carry out large-scale falsifications during the President's election. We found ourselves in this state for the fourth year after Maidan, when it seemed impossible for the country to return to a period of Bushmism. Today, Parliament depends on how quickly and effectively we can adjust this position of the bill. President Yushchenko of Ukraine submitted his bill to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, where he took into account the position of the Constitutional Court, where he also took into account those proposals made by the Venice Commission regarding the President's Election Act. But unfortunately, here again, in this room, the BUTT and the Party of the Regions with their shared fairy tales did not allow that law to enter into legal force. We see again in this room the plot of the two largest political forces that formed the Electoral Law, and who are actually trying to catch fish in the murky water. Now we have bills that allow us to sort this gap in the law that allow us to avoid abuse on election day, and so I want to call on all the deputies in this room for the second week of session, which is actually going to be the last plenary week before the presidential election, so that we can concentrate on adopting this law so that we don't allow any changes to the voter lists on the day of the vote. Just like that.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u171	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u172	Only in this way will we be able to protect the choice of each of our citizens, the choice of every Ukrainian. Only in this way will we be able to ensure that fair and democratic elections are held. President Yushchenko insisted that this was not the right but the responsibility of each MP. That's why I actually urge all the deputies in the next plenary week to start with the President's Elections Act, to adopt in the second reading any of those bills that have been submitted to the Supreme Council and which foresee the deletion of this paragraph. I very much hope that both the community and the electorate will put the necessary pressure on their deputies so that they will meet in the hall to carry out their duties and prevent them from falsifying the President’s election in 2010. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-18-m0.u173	Dear colleagues, the next plenary meeting will take place on Tuesday at 10 a.m. The morning plenary session is closed.
