ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:37]] The 402 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the Ukrainian National Deputies: Bodnar Olga Borisovna and Soča Aleksandra Alexandrovich. We welcome our colleagues and wish for strong health and active activity. Dear colleagues, allow me to provide information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary meeting on February 18, 2009. Sixteen issues of the agenda were discussed, of which 16 were bills. As a result of the review, 13 laws were passed, two bills were adopted as a basis, and one bill was adopted in a second reading. Dear colleagues, the list of issues that you have to discuss and make decisions today. Dear people. Ladies and gentlemen, you have a list of issues that are proposed for discussion and decision-making today. At the same time, I've already received an address from two factions that, in accordance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, require a recess to be announced, to reconcile positions, this is a call by the faction of the Party of the Regions and the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Before you announce a break, please record five minutes about the organization of our work. Ruslan Knazevitch, faction of our Ukrainian People's Self-Defense.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u2	Please pass the word to Bondar Alexander Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u3	Alexander Mikolaiovich, please Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u4	Mr. Vladimir Mihajlovich, honourable national deputies, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the State Privatization Program voted yesterday at the end of the session. The committee's proposal was to support it in a second reading and, in general, the chairman asked only a second reading, although there were no other suggestions. After that, it was said that no proposals had been made, and voting in general was once again put to the vote. She didn't make it. Therefore, the issue of the State Privatization Programme has been raised and should be continued today. Instead, he's in the daytime. It's missing. I want to say again that this is the best privatization program in the history of the adoption of state programmes. It introduces completely transparent procedures in the privatization process. And if they don't want to accept it, they want to preserve everything that's happened before. I ask this question today to raise first and finish its consideration. It was put to a separate vote in the second reading and in general in violation of the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u5	Matthew Valentin Grigorovich, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u6	Thank you. Please pass the word to Kravchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u7	Mikola Kravchenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u8	Cowchenko, the Communist faction. Vladimir Mihajlovich, well, Kiev is spoken of by all political forces. I spoke yesterday, here. I have a bill of 2023, which was agreed yesterday, if possible today, to put it on the agenda for tomorrow so that we can do it on first reading. It was then submitted and considered on second reading in the next plenary week. There is a limitation on the functions of the head of the public administration and the head of the city council.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u9	Thank you. Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u10	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, in front of us the order of today's session is the entire booklet. It's a lot of questions and they're all in their own way that we have to consider. I respect the right of our colleagues to a recess, but only a plenary session has begun. Perhaps our colleagues gave the talks, the things they would like to say, and we would not take another half hour off. I think it's constructive and right. And about. A colleague just raised a question about Kiev's problem. I spoke yesterday and said that it was a problem for all the district cities, that it was a problem for all the city heads. And when we voted in favour of the second round of elections, the mayor of the city would represent the majority of the population, unfortunately, voted 224 deputies. I think we can go back to that question. That would be right and fair.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u11	Andrew School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u12	Please pass the word to John Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u13	Ivan Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u14	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Indeed, when you look at the list of issues that are now under consideration, it is for two weeks of work. But what are the responsible bills, look, the banking system finally in two months, and actually in six months of crisis, we've come back or we've drawn attention to this. Dear colleagues, there are still issues that address many social problems, economic problems that are really linked to overcoming economic crises. We asked and exhorted our colleagues not to create additional disturbances, not to take a break, not to waste time. We're having the most productive day of our lives. That's why we call for work. That's the first one. The other one. Volodymyr Mihajlovich, put to the vote a motion for a reduced procedure those bills that do not raise any particular doubt. Third. Support Bondar's colleague. In fact, we got enough votes yesterday, but there's still got to be one vote, I don't know, let's vote. We urge you to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u15	Alexander Ephraim’s right to speak is transferred by his colleague Mankovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u16	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. We are surprised, on the one hand, that the appeal is that we should work effectively. We could take a break and express our views. You went the other way by giving a word to each faction, you're entitled to it, but it's a waste of time, and your colleagues are talking about it. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, we have recently heard the call of our colleagues for effective work. But this work is when two weeks ago a package of transport bills is being adopted, which raises taxes on everyone without exception, and then the same government on television is struggling with itself and tells us how it will effectively abolish these taxes, which is better not to rush, and nobody needs such haste because it is harmful to the State. And the last one in this part. It raises fair questions about the actions of the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Ogrisco. A draft decision on its resignation has been registered with the Secretariat. We would ask that this draft order be incorporated.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u17	Give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u18	In order for this draft regulation to be included in the agenda today, along with the personnel issues that the coalition colleagues proposed to consider today in the conference room, but I see that they are not ready for this today. We therefore insist that we consider at least one foreign minister. And let each person express his or her view of his or her actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u19	Yes, dear fellows! We exchanged thoughts. As a matter of fact, the privatization program. Viacheslav Kirilenko, please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u20	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Viacheslav Kirilenko, “For Ukraine” MP. We want to address two more questions that were discussed on Tuesday and Wednesday. First. Draft Decision to assign the name of Vasil Stus to Donetsk National University. We discussed this in the hall. And the committee of profile yesterday considered and made a positive decision. We would ask that this question be put into the agenda today. It is ready for discussion and voting. And the second. We have introduced a bill that provides for a moratorium on small business checks by the end of the year, 3686. A professional committee, unfortunately, has not yet considered under various circumstances. I think we're running out of time. And now this bill can be put into the agenda. In times of crisis, this is strictly necessary. What's more, it's only a small business issue and it's only for 1 year. The parliamentary group "For Ukraine" is here asking for your support, Mr. Head. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u21	Thank you. Alexander Lavrinović, I'm going to ask about the draft law on the privatization program.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u22	Dear colleagues! Only yesterday we considered this issue last in the daytime. And since the reporter said today from the rostrum that a violation had been committed, he was not accepted. I want to remind everyone and, above all, Alexander Mikolayovich Bondar, who we worked with exactly in accordance with the Supreme Council Rules, we did not deviate from anyone. And the fact that there were not enough votes in general is your disorganization or inability to organize the work. And please do not translate your skills into other people who organize the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I would like us to be at least honest and to follow regular procedures.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u23	Dear colleagues, I want to calm down, there are no questions, we are not discussing any drafts yet. Five minutes, they signed up. There were suggestions. On these proposals. With regard to the draft Privatization Act. We discussed this with the First Deputy Chief of the Supreme Council yesterday, and this document was not supported, but it was not stated that it was rejected or withdrawn. So if there is no objection, we can put to the vote the return to the draft law. With regard to the proposal of the People's Deputy Mikoli Kravchenk concerning Bill 2023. Let's do it this way. If it is considered by the committee and is ready to be considered, we will consider its inclusion in the agenda. Oleg Zarubinski, the offer is not to announce a break. We cannot fail to do so, this is a requirement of the Rules. And my suggestion to my colleagues not to take a break, but to make a statement immediately, did not find a positive response. With regard to the return to duality of the mayors of the cities. Now, during the break, I'm asking the faction leaders to gather, and we'll discuss it. If there is a common position, then we will offer this joint position to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. As for John Grigorovich Kirilenko, his proposals for us to consider the bills on a reduced procedure. I'm going to put this motion to a vote. With regard to Alexander Efraemov’s proposal that the Supreme Council of Ukraine put in order a day’s draft decree on a foreign minister. Let's do it this way. Is there a committee decision on this matter? And again, right now during the break on the Conciliation Council, let's talk about this so that we don't have any more incentive to fight it. With regard to the proposals made by Viacheslav Kirilenko regarding the decision to assign the name Stus to the University of Donetsk. Please indicate whether there is a conclusion of the committee and whether there will be a positive offer in the Supreme Council. More specifically, whether there will be a positive decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, this will also be discussed. And what about a moratorium on the testing of media or business? As for Bill 3686, I'd like to ask the camera to see if there's a committee decision, if I haven't considered the committee, if I haven't considered it, and the month has passed, then once we've reached a position, we'll decide again at the Conciliation Council meeting. And the last. Dear colleagues, I would like to inform you that we were to consider the draft Decision on the appointment of Valentina Navejchenka as head of the Ukrainian Security Service. On this point, I'm informing you that we can't consider it, because yesterday after 17 a.m., the President of Ukraine withdrew this submission from the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And one more thing. The session's schedule refers to the creation of a TSC for Kiev. At the same time, the Rules Committee proposes that the initiators be returned with two motives. First. There's an MP who's already on one of the committees. And the second. That the candidates proposed for the TSC do not have the signatures of the heads of factions. So I'd like to ask you during the break to resolve these two problems. If they are removed, there will be no objection, we will have reason to consider the matter. I don't think there'll be any objections from the regulatory committee. With this in mind, respectable colleagues announce a break of up to 10 hours for 45 minutes. I ask the faction leaders to gather for a meeting in the office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Break until 10 o'clock 45 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? At the request of the two factions, a break was announced, and it took some time, since there was a meeting of the Conciliation Board at the same time with the faction leaders. So right now, I would like to ask you to make your statement on the consequences of the two factions' break. Who's going to perform? Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov And then I'll inform you of the results of the work of the Conciliation Board. Please, Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u25	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! A few years ago, a prominent politician in our country expressed the view that a region in Ukraine must be fenced with a barbed wire and a bulldozer wrapped in the sea. At that time, the people in this territory have understood that statement literally and very carefully so far, and have rightly treated that policy. But they could never imagine that instead of barbed wires, this territory would be trapped in an ice belt, which is what our executive power is now doing. I wonder why, and the MPs in our room don't question that today whole cities, whole regions are separated from the heat supply. If anyone doesn't understand the technical state of the matter, I'll explain. If we shut down the territory today and the utility workers can't get the water down, then only at 20 degrees heat can we go back and start these businesses. And these cities, which are the largest cities of our country: Dnepropetrovsk, Donetsk, Luhansk, now Herson, Crimea are cut off from the heat supply. [[Today's the day that information was sent.]] Now there's information that's completely distorted, that someone somewhere has some kind of influence on gas structures. I am officially responsible for the fact that direct contracts for the delivery of heat and rental of utility boilers have been taken over by the daughter structure of “Neftegas Ukraine”. We therefore propose, Vladimir Mihajlovich, that we invite the representatives of Naftegaz to the Ukraine Hall, which is responsible for this direction, to provide information on why, for the first time in all the years of our State's existence, there was no such thing even in the early years when Ukraine was defult recognized. The heat supply is now being cut off throughout the territories, and this is at a time when the flu is going on, and people in the masses are suffering from this disease. And the second question. It's connected to the first one. In the past few weeks, the Cabinet of Prime Minister Timoshenko held three meetings with representatives of enterprises that produce chemical industries in our State. These are fertilizers and other associated products. It was agreed and confirmed by the Prime Minister that the bill, which had been drafted for several years, was in this room at number 0909, this Thursday, that is today.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u26	Give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u27	We would like to know if this is another game by the Prime Minister, we are no longer surprised. But in order to confirm whether or not she has kept her obligations again, Vladimir Mihajlovich, we would like to ask a question that has passed through all the committees, which, on our part, has no fundamental objections, to the work of the chemical complex in our State, Bill 0909. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u28	Thank you. Dear colleagues, now let me inform you of the results of the work of the Conciliation Council. With regard to the suggestions and warnings expressed in Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov’s statement. We agreed in such a way that the honourable colleagues who will be prepared, the draft decree will be put to the vote, to listen to this information, to properly prepare those structures and institutions that are responsible for providing energy to our enterprises, the housing sector. So I would like to ask the initiators to clearly formulate proposals to identify who should be invited to consider the issue. As far as Bill 0909 is concerned, let's think about it in a way that we'll consider on Tuesday, maybe next plenary week, if there's no warning. Let's take the first vote and take a look. And then I would ask the apparatus, along with the relevant committees, to ensure that we are ready to consider this bill. Dear colleagues! As for the privatization programme, we are asking for attention and preparation for the vote -- let's put the vote to a vote on the return to take a decision in general. Now get ready, I'll continue our arrangements. With regard to the proposals of Mikola Kravchenka regarding the adoption of the 2023 Bill on the Delimitation of Functions and the proposals made by Oleg Zarubinski on the duality of the election of mayors of cities, we agreed in such a way that on Tuesday the 3rd will be submitted to draft Law 2023. And in terms of duality, this is the draft law of the People's Deputy Catherinechuk, which has not been considered. And we're just going to look at them essentially in the matter of couples and we're going to make the right decision. Dear colleagues, on the proposal to adopt a Supreme Council order to support the public's initiative to assign the name Stus to the University of Donetsk, the Conciliation Council decided to appoint a committee to go to Donetsk, Donetsk State University, and then to decide on the decision. As far as I'm concerned. With regard to the question of the moratorium, Bill 3686, the decision was taken by the committee to consider and, if the committee did not consider, by the deadline set by the Rules, to bring the matter up for consideration. Dear colleagues! Let's not turn the meetings of the Supreme Council into a conciliatory council. The Conciliation Council considered and approved the consideration. schedule for the week. Those questions that have not been supported by the Conciliation Council and on which the negative result of the vote will be negative will not be put to the vote. There's no motive, I'll keep you posted on the results. Next, one more question. The Conciliation Council unanimously agreed with the Supreme Council of Ukraine to decide on March 3, the Supreme Council of Ukraine to review the information provided by the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine regarding the decision of the UN International Court of Justice concerning the island of Snakes and its respective territories. So now it's in line. Please, there will be a word. Wait a minute. There'll be a word, one minute. I will put all the proposals to the vote, and then Viacheslav Kirilenko will have the floor. Well, I won't be asking questions about those that don't apply to you. Please, Viacheslav Kirilenko. Calm down! I know I owe you, calm down!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u29	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “For Ukraine” MP. I am interested in the decisions of this Conciliation Council. So, to assign the name Stus to the University of Donetsk, I take it, BUT and Block of Lithuania are against. And then they call Ogrezka here on Friday on the carpet and then they take off the whole Conciliation Council, which is kind of like a pro. I have a question: Can we discuss the matter in such a key? I'm going back to the problem of the University of Babel. We're not politicizing this problem, but the members of the Party of Regions, part of the BUIT and even some of the other factions have signed up to name the University of Daughters the name of one of the leaders of the KPSS community in the past tense. So Parliament has the right to appeal to a scientific council and to support the initiative of students to name the names of Vasil Stus-Hero of Ukraine, by the way, the University of Daughters. I was told yesterday that a profile committee should make a decision. The committee met and made a decision, and all the factions were part of it. What else is there to study, Vladimir Mikhailovich? If you don't mind, say so.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u30	I'd like to say to my esteemed colleague, less expressive. Please take the lead in the group, come to the Conciliation Council. And let's not solve the questions in the corners. I want to say that the factions of the Party of the Regions and the factions of the Communists have taken a firm stand against this issue. So to continue. Sit down and calm down. As you insist, dear colleagues, I want to calm you down and tell Viacheslav Kirilenka that you don't teach the coalition to work, first work in the coalition and all. Please, Ephraim, on this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u31	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, we support your emotional statement, because what our colleague is doing in the hall, he cannot bear any criticism. I have the signatures of thousands of students at Donetsk National University on my desk. I emphasize, thousands, I can bring them here tomorrow in the session room. I spoke directly to the representatives of the rectorate who held a scientific council and who do not support the view that is wandering in the minds of several, in my view, not healthy people. Because carrying your ideology violently into another territory against the views of those living in that territory is unacceptable in any civilized country and democratic State. Tell them you're on the path of fascism, and then they'll understand you, and by force you won't prove anything here, and we won't let you do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u32	Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down. We're not discussing this. I want to do so, my dear colleague and honourable colleagues, you've already spoken, mentioned, answered you, we're not discussing. Dear colleagues, we do not discuss matters related to the relevant draft decree. So let's think about it, let's make our arguments, and now I want to say again, if everyone's calmed down, let's vote on this proposal, assign the committee to go to Donetsk University, study the situation, and take this proposal into account. Calm down! I'm voting on this motion, please vote. [[11:15:24]] For 226 Well, the decision's made! Decision taken. Next. Dear colleagues, the week is for the committee, please let the committee study, at the next Conciliation Council, we will discuss this. All of it. Calm down. I think the Supreme Council made the right decision. May I have your attention, please? Please prepare for the vote! May I have your attention, please? I'll bet. Dear, honourable colleagues will now vote on the proposal to return to the vote on the adoption of the entire draft Law on the Privatisation Programme. Dear colleagues, calm down, and take a moment of practical work. Please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the return for adoption of the entire draft Law on the State Privatisation Programme for 2008-2012. [[Registration number 2330]] Please vote. Vote please! [[11:16:51]] For 215 The decision is not taken. What's next is the vote: “Next”! I want to say again, sit down, dear colleagues, let's mobilize voices, not speak emotionally to each other. Once again, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has not passed the bill. In order to adopt the draft law, we need to go back to adopting it. I put it to a vote, got 215 votes, what do you suggest? How not adopted in the second reading as a law you all understand! You're looking for votes, we're gonna put another vote! You can bet on the third, on the fifth, when there are no votes! No, it's not. What are you dissatisfied with? What are you dissatisfied with, may I ask?Oh, my God! One minute. Tell me what you're not happy about.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u33	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'm asking a purely procedural question. The privatization programme is adopted in a second reading. So it automatically goes to the third reading committee. Is that what I'm saying? Is that right or wrong? That's it. Well, we have to keep working on this program on the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u34	I mean, yes. We can work on the committee as much as possible, if 11 more votes are not available for adoption, the decision will not be taken. The project is designed for political reasons, apparently not to vote on the project. So please let's work factions, convince MPs. When it's ready, you say and it'll be put to the vote, this project, for adoption as a whole. All of it. Yes, the honourable colleagues, with regard to draft Law 2023 and the draft Law of the People's Deputies of Catherinechuk on the duality of the selection of mayors of cities, we agreed that this issue would be considered by the third number. As far as the Minister of Foreign Affairs is concerned about the decision of the International Court of Justice concerning the island of Snakes. That's why I'm going to put a motion to the vote. Attention, please! – the proposal of the Conciliation Council to consider the relevant draft decision at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on March 3rd this year. [[Registration number 4048]] Please vote. [[11:19:57]] For 362 Decision taken. And one more thing, dear colleagues. There was a suggestion that we should consider short-term bills and that we should exclude bills that would be considered in the second reading. And at the same time, since we used the break, I'd like to ask that we don't take a break at 12 o'clock. I ask you to vote for this proposal. I would like to vote in favour of a short-term review of the bills except for the second reading. Please. [[11:20:43]] For 193 Decision taken. And another suggestion to satisfy our passions and the working order to move on, the evening meeting of the Supreme Council will continue until the finalization of the issues set out in the schedule for today. Please vote. We all say we have to make decisions, please let's vote. [[11:21:14]] For 203 The factions, please. Region Party – 0; “Julia Timoshenko Block” – 155; “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” – 28; Communists – 0; “Litvina Block” – 20. Dear colleagues, let us turn to the issues set out in the schedule for the fourth time. Well, please, Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u35	Dear colleagues, me. Since Vladimir Mikhajlovich informed the President about the recall of the appointment of the head of the Security Service, he would ask the Chief of the Supreme Council to contact the President with a proposal to speed up the appointment of his representative. Because, you know, there's a situation where we're asking serious personnel questions about the President's proposal, and we're 10 or 20 minutes away from the end of the day with another content of the proposal. This may have to do with the fact that there is no representative of the President for the second month. That is why I would ask Vladimir Mikhailovich to ask the President for an immediate representative of the President in Parliament, and perhaps there will be more effective work between Parliament and the President.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u36	Dear colleagues, the draft Order amending the Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine "On the Election of Heads, First Deputys, Representatives of Heads, Secretaries, Members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Sixth Call and Election of the Head, First Deputy, Representatives of the Head, Secretary and Members of the Special Monitoring Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on matters of privatization" is under review. The rapporteur is the head of the Committee, Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u37	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! On February 4, this year, the Committee considered a statement by Ukrainian national deputy Prutnik Edouard Anatoliyevich, a member of the Party of the Regions’ MP for his election as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on National Security and Defence, exempting him from the duties of a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in matters of freedom of speech and information. Considering that the calculated quota for the Party of the Regions' MPs on the Committees is 6 and that the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on National Security and Defence from this faction has 5 Ukrainian National Deputies, i.e. the quota not fully used, the Committee has decided to support the application of the Prutnik People's Deputy and to submit an appropriate draft regulation for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u38	Dear colleagues! Warnings, no questions to the reporter? You won't? Is it? Who's it gonna be? National Deputy Kamchatny, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u39	Kamchatya, Yulia Timoshenko, Kharkiv district. I want to lead to the hall, to the session room, the position of our faction. We have nothing against making a decision, in fact, with regard to our colleague Prutnik. But we are fundamentally against the fact that for more than six months, the issue of our colleague Vlasenko has not been resolved on a completely formal basis. Decision 2743 passed in June, he is now unemployed, he is not appointed as a member of the Justice Committee, as was suggested by him and by our faction. Absolutely on formal grounds, it's as if the Justice Committee doesn't have our quota. But I would like to remind you that when the Justice Committee was formed, a negotiated, joint political decision had been made, according to which was the composition of the personal representatives of all factions. And when Colleague Korniychuk was released from office as a member of this committee, we were granted the absolute right, according to a political decision, to delegate his colleague. And it was done. We were delegating a colleague of Vlasenko's. But, me.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u40	Please, Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u41	I wonder why my deputy on the Committee is raising this question because, according to the Rules, he has a certain interpretation, and he knows me better. When the Committees of the Supreme Council were assembled, it was the political agreement of all factions, and we voted then. After that, the Committee was guided solely by the rules of the Rules according to which there was a quota for the representation of individual factions on those committees. In this case, this issue is not resolved because the quota from the representatives of the BIT is fully filled. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, let's do this. Yes, the Rules require a proportional distribution. The committee shall make a decision accordingly. But together with that, if there is such a question, I would ask that this project be prepared, we will consider, but with the committee's warnings, so that a person can, if this committee does not support the Supreme Council, work in another. Please give a draft ruling to this 2743. Now, pay attention, dear fellows! I am voting on draft decree 4016 amending the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to elect the heads, the first deputies, the deputy heads, the secretaries, the members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth vocation and election of the head, the first deputy, the deputy head of the Secretariat, the members of the Special Monitoring Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on matters of privatization concerning the election of Edward Prutnik as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on National Security and Defence, and thus dismissing him from the duties of a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Freedom of Word and Information. Please vote. [[11:27:14]] For the 220. The decision is not taken. Please, second order. The factions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u43	Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I would like to say that we are setting a dangerous precedent when we are violating the Rules of Work.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u44	One moment, Alexander Sergiyovich. Region Party – 170, “Timoshenko Yulia Block” – 3, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” – 0, Communist faction – 27, “Litvina Block” – 20. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u45	Vladimir Mihajlovich, once again, I wish to reiterate that we are setting a dangerous precedent under this vote. We never allow the regulatory committee to derogate from those laws and regulations that the Supreme Council approves. Once again, if a faction wants to pass on this issue, contrary to the decision that we are making ourselves, it is not the right approach, and it leads to nowhere. On February 18, the Committee considered a statement by the Ukrainian national deputy Samofalova Hennady Grigorovovich, a member of the Party of the Regions’ MPs for his election as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council for Health Care. The calculated quota for the Party of Regions’ parliamentary factions on the committees is six, and the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Health Protection from this faction has four Ukrainian National Deputies. So the quota is not fully used. The committee decided to support the statement made by the Ukrainian national deputy Samofalova Hennady Grigorovich and to make a corresponding draft decision for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u46	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions? Stone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u47	Alexander Sergiyovich, I want to remind you that this decision we propose to vote solely in a package with a question about Vlasenko. And that's why I have a question for you. Please tell me, were you not at the meeting of that Conciliation Council when your political power decided on such a specific personal composition of the Justice Committee? And that was a political decision. And there, by the way, the quota is exceeded, because there were up to 20 people on your side and maybe ours. But a political decision was made. Therefore, it should be carried out to the end of the chamber. What the personal composition of BUT was, more faithfully, a quantity in justice, such a quantity warehouse and should remain until the end of the cabinet – it was a political decision and it must be followed.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u48	Dear colleague, unlike you, I was indeed at the meeting when the Supreme Council was assembled. Once again, I reaffirm that one case, when the foundation of the work of the Supreme Council is laid, lays a foundation and then a completely different matter is the implementation of our laws and regulations in the work process. There has been no case in the last two or three years that we have deviated from this decision. And at least I won't go to such a violation in spite of all the documents they claim here in the Supreme Council. I would not like to aggravate this issue here, but I can say that on the matter raised by the BIT. There are other documents before the regulatory committee, they are under review today, and if it is confirmed that a person holds additional posts in the respective supervisory institutions of our State, he will be deprived of the right to a parliamentary mandate at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u49	Dear colleagues, other questions, no warnings? A motion is made for the election of Samofal Gennadija Grigorovitch, Ukrainian national deputy, a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for Health Care. Registration number of the draft regulation 4082. Please vote. [[11:31:28]] For 223 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, given the fact that we have taken one decision in the formation of the governing bodies and the compositions of the committees, I propose to entrust the Committee on Rules, MPs and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council with one draft decision to elect members of our colleagues' committees so that the Supreme Council of Ukraine will take the appropriate decision. No warning? I am voting on this motion for a committee to meet, a plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on March 3rd, to issue a draft decree to stop the collection of political accounts. Please vote. [[11:32:29]] For 375 Decision taken. The draft Ordinance on the Establishment of a Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Investigation of Violations by Officials of the State Administrations of the Kiev Constitution and the Law in force of Ukraine in Demarcating and Reshaping Land Areas is being announced. Do we need to report, discuss this project? Can we vote and move on? I won't. The committee. conditions fulfilled. It is, isn't it? Please report to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Bondarev Konstantin Anatoliyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u50	Honorable Predestination! Dear colleagues, the TV set! The history of Ukraine is a story of the struggle for land that is of absolute value to Ukrainian consciousness and worldview. The land issue was the cause of major social conflicts and epochal economic engagements. All our historical experience clearly and unequivocally shows that without a just solution to this question we will not be a civilized European, democratic state. Our economic growth and the well-being of our citizens depend directly on the effective adoption of laws in this area. Over the past 18 years, these walls have been filled with accusations and loud statements about land problems, but very few have been made to address them in a systematic, complex way. A list of such questions that await a solution is endless. That's the definition of salt boundaries. Villages and villages, construction sites for factories, businesses and roads, development of general plans for settlements, villages, and villages. And this list can go on and on. The responsibility for today’s solution is completely and completely in the hands of the Supreme Council. Where there is no law, there is anarchy, and in our country there is a real land vachanal. During a period of global crisis, agriculture itself can become one of the rescue routes for our economy. Today, our priceless fertile lands are to become a major priority in manufacturing and increasing jobs. You don't have to follow nanotech -- you better use it rationally.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u51	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u52	I'd like to say a lot more, but I'm going to show you, unfortunately, a little schematic drawing that I've drawn, where, how and who decides to give land to a legal person or a natural person. And all of that circle is locked down. The decision is taken by the head of the district government: first, the granting of permission to collect technical documentation, and lastly, when signing an act on private property rights. So we've got these very good queens.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u53	Constantine Anatolyevich, this is what we will show when we report the work of the commission. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, we voted in favour of a reduced procedure, but we voted. Please sit down, we have a few dozen bills today that are more important than collecting these accounts through the commission of inquiry. Please take the seat of the committee. Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u54	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! At its meeting on 4 February, the Committee considered the responsibility of the Supreme Council Rules of Procedure for the draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the establishment of an interim commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of violations by officials of the State administrations of the Kyiv Region of the Constitution and on the actual legislation of Ukraine in the selection and transformation of land, introduced by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Bondariev, at the number 3540 of 28.01.2009, in exchange for the previous one. The Committee noted in its consideration of the matter that the draft regulation had been drafted and registered in accordance with the requirements of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine should be included in the agenda of the fourth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for its consideration. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u55	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Dear colleagues, do we need to discuss this issue? No warning? Therefore, I am voting on the proposal put forward by the Committee on Rules, MPs and the Organization of the Work of the Supreme Council, to adopt a draft decree establishing the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of violations by officials of the state administrations of the Kyiv Region of the Constitution and the current legislation of Ukraine in the deviating and reshaping of land. The draft Decree is drafted in accordance with the requirements of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. I'm betting on a vote on the adoption of the draft Decree as Decrees, registration number 3540, please vote. [[11:39:14]] For 367 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we were about to consider a draft decree establishing a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the circumstances of the violation of the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, the adoption of illegal orders by officials of the Kyiv City Public Administration, the executive body of the Kyiv City Council. There are two draft Regulations, 4035 and 4035-1. The Committee on Rules, MPs and the Organization of the Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine reviewed one project, since the second project came with only 17 numbers, namely, the draft Decree 4035 was the subject of committee discussion. The committee made the following comments: First, there are no signatures of authorized factions, or factions leaders, on the candidates proposed for the TSC. And the second. Among the suggestions made to this commission is the name of the national deputy, Harovski, who is a member of the TSC on issues related to the supply of gas to Ukraine. In this regard, the honourable colleagues who have noted the first draft of the ruling, and the second draft of the ruling has not been considered, the regulatory committee is a proposal, I would now ask the faction leaders to agree on the candidates for Project 4035, and when this document is agreed upon, I would ask them to submit them here to the initiators of its decision, and we will make this decision so that we do not now make a list of the composition of the Temporary Special Commission from the vote in the session room. No warning? Well, I'd like to do this work so that, after a break, they can put this document on the table. It is announced for the consideration of the Draft Decree on the State-level celebration of the 200th anniversary of the Nikita Botanical Garden, the National Science Center, the reporter: Player Leonid Ivanovich. And get ready from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u56	Dear colleagues, I don't think there will be a person in this room who, first of all, wouldn't hear about the pearl of Ukraine as the Botanical Garden, and second of all, many of you must have been there and know that it's really a big, big, scientific institution. So I wouldn't want to advertise you just to tell you that what the Botanical Garden did in a year of its intensive practical work does not have, in fact, analogs and comparisons for borders in this area. Therefore, given that the members of the relevant committee unanimously supported the bill, I would like to ask you to vote with conviction in favour of the draft decision of the Supreme Council that you have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u57	Thank you, Leonid Ivanovich. Please take the seat of the committee. Vladimir Ivanovich Polohalo. Any word from the committee? I can't see. At the same time, I would like to say, honourable colleagues, that the committee has considered and he proposes to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt a bill as a whole. Is there no warning from others? Is there a need to discuss this project? Please sign in. Yes, if the record is complete, please put the name of the national MPs who are registered on the board. People's MP Philippeenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u58	Please pass the word to your colleague Laishko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u59	Oleg Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u60	Oleg Laszko “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Of course, the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko will support a bill aimed at supporting the Nikita Botanical Garden. Because the anniversary of the 200th anniversary of the creation of the Nikita Botanical Garden is not only an occasion to celebrate, but also to consider the problems that are in this garden and, if possible, to solve them. In particular, to return to the historic territory of this garden the bits that have now been built of former highlanders, who now feel no less successful in opposition, as well as the houses and the present - day highlanders, who have not been allowed to clear the gas, are to do other things. So I propose that, during the celebrations of the celebration of the 200th anniversary, until the completion of this project, the decision be returned to the outskirts of the Nikita Botanical Garden, land that was illegally alienated and on which these buildings were built, many floors with pools and aquariums and can still be built with helicopters, and God knows with what. So I think it's to get these houses back to the kids. Let the children of the unprotected Ukrainian families rest there. Today, they are most affected by the crisis, so that they can rest and thank for their normal childhood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u61	Blackmore People's Deputies, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u62	Dear colleagues, I personally know many of the workers of the Nikita Botanical Garden from the ranks to the leadership, and I know how hard they had to survive, especially in the 1990s. And I would like to draw attention to the fact that they do not require a penny of money today to celebrate this date, which is why we need to set an example for other of our anniversary that we are here to approve. Who's to say there's someone in the territory, I don't go to Chernigov region to ask. I assure you, what he's talking about is completely false. I call on everyone to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u63	Dear national deputies, all who signed up, spoke. In view of Oleg Lazko’s offer, we will proceed in such a legal and regulatory manner. I'm going to put the vote on the ground. After that, if the Supreme Council supports it as a basis, we will vote on the proposal of our colleague Lášk. Is there no objection? I'm voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to mark the 200th anniversary of the Nikita Botanical Garden of National Science. [[Registration number 2680]] Please vote. [[11:47:00]] For 397 The decision is made as a basis. Please make your offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u64	Oleg Laszko, Yulia Block Timoshenko. Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. I propose to complete the draft ruling with the following content: it can be edited in the General Legal Office. To return to Nikita’s botanical garden illegally removed land on which the houses of the oligarchs, former leaders of Ukraine, are now being built. And these houses are given to children, orphans, from low-income families, so that they can rest and recover. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u65	Dear National Deputies! Let's make this proposal this way. Instruct the Attorney General's Office to study the legality of alienating land from the Nikita Botanical Garden. Report on the results to the Supreme Council of Ukraine three months later. That's how. No warning? With this in mind, let me put this proposal to the vote. Please vote. [[11:48:29]] For 410 Decision taken. The amendment was adopted with one small clarification that we will write in a legal way that the Supreme Council did not run the Attorney General's Office, to the Attorney General's Office there. Here I was told that this would be better done. Given that the amendment is supported, I'm voting on the adoption of the draft Decree on the State level of the 200th anniversary of the Nikita Botanical Garden, the National Science Center, registration number 2680, as a whole, as a decree. Please vote. [[11:49:21]] For 402 Decision taken. A draft Law amending some of Ukraine’s legislative acts to deal with the negative effects of the financial crisis, registration number 3585, is being announced for consideration. The reporter is the national deputy of Ukraine, Yuri Poluniev. Please, the co-reporter, will be the first deputy to the Head of the Committee on Finance and Banking.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u66	Dear Head, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! The issue of the stability of the country’s banking system is one of the most important aspects of anti-crisis government. The global crisis started with banks, started with a mortgage. Its unprecedented scales and nature have led to things that have not been and so far do not have universal advice or recipes, how to restore trust in banks, how to stimulate banks, and how to lend to the real sector. An important principle in the anti-crisis strategy is that the use of budget funds to help the private sector, both banking and industrial, should be accompanied by significant changes in philosophy and business approaches, improved efficiency, social responsibility and transparency. Another important principle is balance of approach. You can't save only banks' investors if this leads to a loss of capacity by banks. Just like you can't save only banks without thinking about the bank's main client, the simple person of the investor and the business. The main objective of the bill is to propose a balanced and systematic approach that takes into account the interests of investors, lenders who are given serious resources and benefits, and to partially compensate for these resources and the loss of providing banks with certain logical things that relate to simplification of taxation, the possibility of increasing capital, the more flexible formation of reserves that will reduce the damage they already suffer. The basics of a group of issues that are regulated by the bill. The constitutional rights of citizens who have mortgages that can be deprived of housing as a result of a crisis are protected. In particular, a legislative framework is set for the implementation by the end of this year, in agreement with borrowers of bank debt restructuring on mortgage loans. The bill introduces moratoriums on forced evictions for 2009-2010 from the home in which a natural person, a mortgage holder, resides or registers, if interest on mortgages is paid at the same time or with a maximum delay of up to two months. And so do I.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u67	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u68	The question of debt restructuring on agreed terms is also documented. The tax burden on households, on the physical persons of borrowers who have suffered or may be affected by the devaluation of bracelets is decreasing. There are standards aimed at stabilizing the currency market, increasing supply in the foreign currency market. In particular, mandatory sales are established for 50 percent of foreign currency arrivals within five years of the date of arrival. The date of return is reduced from 180 days to 90 days as well as from 180 days to 90 days of import. The efficiency of NBA activities is increased by promoting transparency and accountability in the area of currency market regulation and by conducting a commercial bank refinancing operation. Bank client protection offers are balanced by standards designed to enhance the financial viability of the banking system.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u69	Finish up, please. We have an emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u70	I'll be done in half a minute. The bill empowers commercial banks, in agreement with borrowers, to restructure mortgage debt by 31 December, and also provides for rules that allow banks to increase capital through, inter alia, subordinated debt. The cap on capital participation is being lowered because of privileged shares. There are comments from the National Bank, the National Science and Experimental Authority.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u71	Yuri Volodymyrovich, I'm sorry. The materials are on hand. If you're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u72	Last sentence. The adoption of this bill will allow for the very necessary process of stabilizing and healing the country’s banking system, the currency market. The MPs would like to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u73	Have a seat, please. The report is Stanislav Mikhailovich Arjewitin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u74	Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Finance and Banking has repeatedly considered this bill. Several times the author offered in exchange for some of our accounts. The purpose of the bill is to overcome the negative effects of the financial crisis. The bill aims to improve legislation in the area of credit and financial regulation, to ensure the sound functioning of the banking system and to implement effective measures to support the liquidity of Ukraine's banks. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council concludes that the bill can be based on the first reading, taking into account their observations. The National Bank of Ukraine also sent its conclusions that it agreed to support the bill in its first reading. The Association of Commercial Banks also sent comments, but it generally accepts the bill. At the same time, the Committee, by its decisions, recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine reject the draft Law amending certain legislative acts aimed at overcoming the negative effects of the financial crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u75	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Let's sign up for a discussion. Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich, please. Terjehoin Sergey Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u76	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the position of the committee is surprising, because this project contains some really interesting novels that allow and protect the interests of depositors and depositories and lenders and banks themselves. If something does not please the committee in the approaches proposed by the author, there is a second reading. But all we have to do is respect the initiative of the national deputy who took the matter and offered us a solution. So our faction supports the adoption of this bill as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u77	Kseniya Mikhailovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u78	Xenia Lapina, group “For Ukraine! ” Please pass the word to Stanislav Arjevetin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u79	Ladies and gentlemen, I appeal to you to support this bill. The “For Ukraine!” group also supports these legislative initiatives. In fact, this bill will provide an opportunity to reduce the problems that today are between banks and customers, which is the main thing -- it will enable banks to improve capitalisation at the expense of the fact that a regime will now be introduced to increase the share of privileged shares, and in this way an additional capital can be added to the banking system. Banking institutions are also allowed today to form a subordinated debt that will also improve the capacity of banking institutions. Lets you form increased reserves in simplified mode. And I think that's going to allow commercial banks to prolong most customers and form additional reserves in this way. I think the normal norm here is that the National Bank will, in some cases, define again the same topic of refinancing, and I think we're going to take it down on the second reading, so let's say, let's support this bill in the first reading, and we'll make substantial adjustments to the second reading, and we'll improve the situation in the financial banking field. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u80	Question completed. I am voting on the adoption of the draft Law amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts in order to overcome the negative effects of the financial crisis. Registration number 3585. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:58:39]] For 237 Decision taken. [[Applause]] A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the activities of the National Bank of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on the removal and discharge of the Head of the National Bank]] Registration number 3649. Reported by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Harovsky Sergey Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u81	Harovsky Sergey, faction "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense", party "Go, Ukraine!" Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! The bill is designed to regulate the mechanism and to justify the removal of obligations. The responsibility of the head of the National Bank and the recognition by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of a person who is temporarily relied on to exercise the authority of the head of the National Bank. During the financial crisis, the National Bank of Ukraine failed to ensure the basic constitutional function of the NBA — the stability of the monetary unit that threatened the national economy. Ukraine’s economic security and sovereignty. The Supreme Council of Ukraine, by its decree, expressed mistrust in the head and rule of the NBA and twice appealed to the President of Ukraine for immediate submission and release of the head of the National Bank. Despite such requests by the President of Ukraine, there has been no application for the release of the head of the National Bank, which makes it impossible to carry out personnel changes aimed at ensuring that the National Bank has properly performed its functions to restore the stability of the monetary unit. An objective reason for such a situation is the absence of an effective legislative mechanism that provides grounds for the Supreme Council of Ukraine to remove the head of the National Bank and to identify the person on whom the provisional exercise of authority is based, in the event that the President of Ukraine does not exercise constitutional powers to submit the release of the head of the National Bank. It is proposed to support the amendments to the National Bank Act. Article 18 adds – and I draw your attention to the specifics of the change – to put it this way: “The head of the National Bank of Ukraine is removed from the responsibility of the Supreme Council of Ukraine by a majority of the constitutional composition in the event of a population of such conditions: the first condition is the Supreme Council of Ukraine by a majority of.” [[and three conditions]]
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u82	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u83	“.The Supreme Council, by a majority of the constitutional composition, has recognized the actions of the National Bank in such a way that they do not guarantee the basic constitutional function; the Second, the Supreme Council has expressed its mistrust to the head or all the composition of the Nazbank government and has asked the President of Ukraine to submit the application for exemption; and the Third, the President of Ukraine has not submitted the application for exemption from the post of head of the National Bank within a week of receiving the recommission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. If the head of the National Bank is removed from his duties, the Supreme Council shall determine the majority of the constitutional composition of the person entrusted with the duties of head of the National Bank of Ukraine.” So the Supreme Council needs to discuss this issue three times, and it makes it impossible for some political orders to be executed.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u84	Have a seat, please. A report from the committee. Arzhevtin Stanislav Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u85	Ladies and gentlemen, we will now consider four bills that are essentially co-sounding. The committee considered all these bills. With regard to Bill 3649, which provides for amendments to part 13 of article 10 of the National Bank Act by supplementing the grounds for the early termination of the authority of the head of the National Bank of Ukraine. The bill also proposes to supplement article 18 of the Ukrainian National Bank Act, which provides for a procedure for the removal of the head of the National Bank. The committee's decision is the following: such proposals are contrary to the requirements of article 85, paragraph 18, of the Constitution, since the President's mandate is to submit a corresponding application for office and discharge from the post of head of the National Bank of Ukraine, and the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine are only to take a decision on these issues. Thus, the stated proposals of the Scientific and Experimental Administration are in line with the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council, in its conclusion, notes that the first reading of the bill makes it advisable to reject the bill. At the same time, our committee considered, in essence, alternatives to this law, Bills No. 3602, Bills No. 3607, Bills No. 3689, and in view of the draft, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Bill 3649 to reject and propose to the Supreme Council to adopt Bill 3689, introduced by the People’s Deputy of Ukraine Lukyanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u86	Let's sign up for a discussion. Pisarenko Valeriy Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u87	Dear colleagues, at last we're back to the question of banking, regulation. I want to tell you that for today, of course, we have done a great deal with you, but very much has not yet been done. Because you and I, for example, have solved the question that Mr. Stelma doesn't deserve to be the head of the National Bank, and yet he's still doing his job, he comes to the President's meeting and threatens everyone that he's coming back from vacation and then he shows his cousin to everyone. But to this day we are considering those bills that will still allow us to carry out our constitutional duty and complete our monitoring and regulation of this area. You know, when they say it's unconstitutional, I'd like to say that we don't touch the constitutional issue here, but we settle the gaps that unfortunately we have left in the legislation today. Therefore, should we resolve the issue of the assignment of a responsibilities? They should. Should we do so only in this area? No, it's not. You can see that we have two years in charge of the Ukrainian Security Service, a man who does not understand at all what the Security Service is and who does what it does. So today, Parliament is trying to remove its most important functions. And so far, we support this bill, even though it still needs to be further developed and improved. I think we're going to do the second reading. And you know, I'd like to go back to our overall work on how banks work in the anti-crisis period. You know, I think we should move away from the principle that we are today more protecting banks than those bank customers, and these are all the Ukrainian citizens that are holding funds there today. And if you and I don't stop the practice of paying benefits to banks and don't protect the bank's investors, of course, people won't thank us for that, and you'll see that you can lose the banking system as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u88	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u89	So our faction will support this bill, I ask the House to vote and raise the status of both the National Bank and Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u90	Hare Ivan Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u91	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we need to discuss this issue more broadly and understand that there are several bills here, including three bills: the removal of the head of the National Bank, the strengthening of parliamentary control and the release there. And all of these three bills touch on a large part of this one article — article 18. Then the question is, What was the purpose of the three bills when one article 18 was drafted, in order to, as a matter of fact, be it threaded, so that the bill or the bill could be extended? What is the purpose of these bills? They're aimed at actually destroying the independence of the National Bank of Ukraine to subordinate the bank to certain political forces in Parliament or in government, so we'll understand what we're going to do. So it is clear that I will never personally vote in favour of this bill, because it directly contradicts the Constitution and it deprives the National Bank of Independence. Now on one example that is proposed. The bill proposes that the head of the National Bank be removed from his duties. So we have an exemption under the Constitution, there's some kind of special withdrawal institution, which is kind of an intermediate phase to liberation, and it's called three formal signs: the Supreme. Jura, don't bother, I know. And it's called three formal signs. Then we will assign that fulfilling responsibility. If we turn not to this bill, but to the second on strengthening parliamentary control, it says that this temporary responsibilities will be the head of the Supervisory Board. I mean, you know, the management system itself and the surveillance system are kind of the same structure. So it's done for certain people, I mean, it's done to destroy the National Bank as a unit, it's done to make the National Bank of Ukraine subject to certain political forces. There is no such thing in any country of the world. So let's take this jump away.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u92	Miroshenko Yuri Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u93	Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear voters! Dear colleagues! You know, it's hard for me to get out of this, because I'm very emotional about what's going on in the head of the National Bank. I remember him reacting disrespectfully to me in the summer when I asked him why the dollar had changed by 4 percent in one day. And of course, it's not normal. But if we're going to come out not today's situation, but from the logic of the Constitution and the principle of power distribution, and the principle of the independence of certain institutions, which is the National Bank of Ukraine, we have to understand that this bill cannot be approved. Because that's why the Supreme Council has no right to influence the activities of the National Bank, because the Supreme Council, which approves the decision of the majority, which is made up of a coalition, and the same coalition forms a government, and the government is always underfunded and is always tempted to print these funds. And in this context, there is a rule in the Constitution where the President makes a balance that makes it impossible, in fact, to influence the independence of the National Bank. So, honourable colleagues, by sharing your outrage over the situation that has arisen in the activities of the National Bank, I urge you not to support this bill, because it is, in fact, in contravention of the Constitution and the principles of an organization, a democratic organization of power in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u94	Thank you, Yuri Romanovich. The discussion is over. I am voting on the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the activities of the National Bank of Ukraine to remove the head of the National Bank and fulfil its obligations. Registration number 3649. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:12:04]] For-188. The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. The factions, please. Region Party – 0, “Club of Timoshenko” – 153, “Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense” – 35, Communists – 0, “Club of Lithuania” – 0. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the National Bank of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on the appointment and release of the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine]] [[Registration number 3689]] Reportedly, Lukyanov Vladislav Valentinovich, deputy head of the Committee on Finance and Banking.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u95	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished fellow national MPs! Taking into account the current situation in the financial system of Ukraine, I agree with previous speakers, who believe that in this situation to make changes to the National Bank of Ukraine Act, it is only to add the turmoil to which the government is now pushing the economy and the financial system of Ukraine. That's why I'm proposing. I'm calling off this bill and I'm asking you to remove it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, in accordance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, if the bill is included in the agenda, it is recalled by the legislative initiative by decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So we have a dilemma, now we have to vote in favour of withdrawing this bill. I am voting on the motion to withdraw the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the National Bank of Ukraine. [[No. 3689]] Please vote. [[12:14:34]] For 205 The decision is not taken. Since the report on this law has been made, please register for the discussion of Bill 3689. Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u97	Dear Alexander Vladimirović, distinguished colleagues! We have a very busy agenda today. And if, according to the bill, the author himself takes it off the table, we can see that he will not be voted in the room. It is simply pointless to waste time and engage in pointless discussions instead of working fruitfully on those bills that have been put on the agenda today and agreed upon by the Conciliation Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u98	Arzhevtin Stanislav Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u99	Stanislav Arjewitin, group “For Ukraine”. I also propose to support the author. But given that I've taken the word, Your Honor, I'd like to take this opportunity to remind you what the independence of the central banks is in other countries. And I'll give you some examples. The example of Poland, which foresees that the Head of the Central Bank may be released in the event of, firstly, the inability of him to perform his duties in connection with illness and secondly, in the event of a criminal offence. Slovenia, it is predicted that the head will be relieved of his position at his own request in the event of a crime or when he has been brought before a court of law for serious misconduct. The same is true in Germany. So I propose, honourable deputies, let us not violate the Constitution. Let's reject this bill. And if we want to make the right decision, we need to change the Constitution. For example, as with the Attorney General. If he is mistrusted, he is automatically retired. Let's put in the Constitution and not make any kind of regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u100	The draft law has been finalized. I'm voting on the adoption of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the National Bank of Ukraine. [[on the appointment and release of the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine]] Registration number 3689. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:17:26]] For 169 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. The factions, please. Region Party – 1, "Timoshenko Yulia Block" – 148, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" – 20, communists – 0, "Litvina Block" – 0. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the National Bank of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on strengthening parliamentary control]] Registration number 3602 and alternative is 3607. Reported by the Ukrainian national deputy Sanchenko Andri Vilenović. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, the fifth month in this room and in all the media, almost all political forces have expressed outrage at the National Bank and our citizens'sympathy for the collapse of the national currency and the resulting crises in each Ukrainian family and in every Ukrainian enterprise. Today we have the opportunity to begin a process of establishing an elementary order in relations with the National Bank and to give our citizens hope that the situation can change for the better. The bill you have proposed provides in fact three rules, two of which I think are undeniable. These are rules that allow for the establishment of a procedure for parliamentary control over the activities of the National Bank. What is it? I turn to the original, the National Bank Act, the Definition of Terms section. So here are the gold reserves, and I want to remind you that, unlike what the officials of the National Bank are treating, these are the gold reserves, not the National Bank, but the States of Ukraine, which are reflected in the balance sheet of the National Bank. So I would like to say that these chronic delusions of the leaders of the National Bank, who believe that Parliament, the Parliamentary Court of Auditors do not have the right to control the formation and use of gold reserves, are the answer in fact given in the National Bank Act. And we cannot leave the gold reserves of the State of Ukraine out of parliamentary control. This is why it is proposed to amend the National Bank Act first and to extend the powers of the Court of Auditors and to add the functions of monitoring the formation and use of the country's gold reserves.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u102	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u103	The following changes are proposed: to submit the Internal Audit Service of the National Bank to the Council of the National Bank. I would like to remind you that this council is slowly forming a Parliament with the President. This is also an obvious norm, it is, in fact, a nonsensence, when the head of the structure is subject to an audit service and therefore it is impossible to order. And the third rule is, of course, a discussion, which provides that, in the event of a removal by Parliament's decision, on certain grounds of the head of the National Bank prior to the President's proposal for a candidature, responsibilities shall be placed on the head of the Monitoring Council, that is, once again, on the part of the Parliament and the President. The form is controversial, but I think it will be possible to find a form acceptable to Parliament by agreeing on a second reading. I beg your pardon. And I think that restoring parliamentary control is a very important task that we can do today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u104	Thank you, Andry Vilenovich. An alternative bill from the MP Mishchenko Sergio Grigorovitch, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u105	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine. I don't know, honestly, what he's alternative to, but let's just say he's an alternative. I would like to remind all my colleagues that we voted twice by almost 400 votes in favour of not trusting the head of the National Bank of Ukraine. But how can Parliament respect itself if these decisions are not implemented by anyone today? I'll just give you one example. Article 51 of the National Bank Act. It sounds like accountability, the accountability of the National Bank to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. But the fourth paragraph of this article is that the head of the National Bank in Parliament is preparing a report. Why not report if the article is “Reporting”? Thus, this is an inadequacy that needs to be removed. And other things. If the Parliament expresses its mistrust with 400 votes to the head of the National Bank, there must be some reaction from that official, the President, to change the head of the National Bank. Therefore, the bill proposes not to deprive the President of these powers, but to allow him to change his head, to submit another candidature to the Supreme Council without in any way restricting his right to submit this candidature. So, MPs, I want to urge you that there are no violations of the Constitution in these two novels, and so I'm asking you just to, you know, protect your dignity.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u106	Please conclude, Sergey Grigorovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u107	I'm asking for my dignity simply by this vote, this one, you know. Yes, what you are is the MPs, and we are the legislature, so that we are counted with us in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u108	Thank you, please sit down, Sergey Grigorovitch. A report on both bills from the committee. Arzhevtin Stanislav Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u109	Honourable deputies regarding the decision of the Committee on Bill 3602. As you understand, there were two other innovations, apart from the previous topic of the release of the head of the National Bank: to subordinate the internal audit service of the National Bank itself, the Supervisory Board and the second money -- to authorize the Court of Auditors to exercise control over the gold reserves. The decisions of our Committee on Finance and Banking are as follows. The bill proposes to supplement article 9 of the National Bank Act by stating that the Board of the National Bank appoints an internal audit. Such a change in authority of the National Bank and the subordination of its National Bank Audit Authority contradicts the concept of “internal audit” and does not comply with the general principles of corporate governance. These proposals do not comply with articles 13 and 14 of the Ukrainian National Bank Act, according to which the Board of the National Bank has no right to intervene in the operational activities of the National Bank. And the latter, according to the basic principles of monetary policy, through monetary instruments and other instruments of banking regulation, provides monetary and credit policies in the country and manages the National Bank. The bill proposes that article 18 of the Ukrainian National Bank Act be supplemented by a provision that provides for the establishment of a procedure for the removal of the head of the National Bank of Ukraine from its responsibilities, in contravention of article 85, paragraph 18, of the Constitution of Ukraine. The bill also refers to the powers of the Accounting Chamber to monitor the state of gold reserves. This proposal does not correspond to article 98 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which states that the powers of the Court of Auditors relate to the implementation on behalf of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the control of the coming of funds into and use of the National Budget of Ukraine. Thus, the Committee on Finance and Banking recommends that the bill be rejected. A similar proposal is also made by the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u110	Report, yes, two at a time.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u111	Ladies and gentlemen! Regarding the following bill, the 3607 Committee on Finance and Banking considered and proposed that the bill be rejected. [[People's MP Mishchenko]] Similarly, the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority also proposes to reject it as being contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u112	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Let's sign up for a discussion. Mr. Sergey Grigorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u113	I'll give that word to Pisarenko Valery Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u114	Dear colleagues, well, really, very serious initiatives by our colleagues. We should thank them that we continue to fight the vacchanalia in the banking system and in the National Bank. I think our faction will support good initiatives to resolve all these problems. And once again, I want to remind you that nothing has changed today in the National Bank's system of work. And that's why we need these bills with you, which we are adopting today, perhaps as soon as possible through the committees, and so that we can accept them as a whole and submit them to the President for signature next week. What's more, the good signal for the President would be that we would receive more than 300 votes at once, and the National Bank felt that today, besides the President and besides the Bank's, there is also a responsibility both to the Supreme Council and to the citizens of Ukraine, who are spending every day with a new currency exchange rate to the dollar, and every day only counting how much their contributions have been devalued, which are frozen in the national banking sphere today. And the fact that banks today in their first working hours this year have shown almost twice as much profit as they did last year just shows that the priorities for supporting only private banking institutions for today are distorted. The priority should be the person who came to the bank, put his money there to protect them from inflation, from theft, and then the National Bank freezes them there and doesn't give them away, operating on the costs that the National Capital actually provides, and which we take credit for, and for which each of us pays. Hence, man, man, and man are the first things to date. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u115	Koleschenko Vadim Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u116	Dear colleagues, the faction of the Party of the Regions certainly requires the National Bank of Ukraine and its head to work in the interests of Ukraine and the people of Ukraine. And we certainly did everything we could to make it happen in this way, both to the government and to the National Bank of Ukraine. But when we look at the two bills proposed, we see that they violate and conflict with the existing Constitution. And if we want our nation to work in accordance with existing legislation, because the legislators have these requirements to meet, first of all, personally. So when we talk about the rules of the Basic Law of Ukraine and the fact that they are the norm of direct action, their content and scope cannot be clarified by ordinary laws in the direction of narrowing down or extending it, we have one thing to understand that the actions of the National Bank and its heads are subordinated to the actions of our President, the President of Ukraine. So the faction of the Party of Regions, which is the largest in Parliament and represents the interests of the people of Ukraine, requires the President first. From President Yushchenko, first of all, to understand that if the policy of the National Bank of Ukraine fails to meet the demands and interests of Ukraine, we will suffer. That's why we're asking President Yushchenk once again to make his own conclusions and file a motion for Mr. Stelmahm's release and another candidate. And we certainly support that decision. But unconstitutional actions in an unconstitutional way cannot be supported. So the faction of the Party of the Regions is not going to support these two bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u117	Kulczynski Mikola Georgievich
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u118	Please pass the word to Stanislav Arjevetin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u119	Deputies! Once again, I wanted to point out that the National Bank is a specialized state institution defined by the Constitution. Today, much has been said about parliamentary control. But, honourable Members, we have forgotten with you that according to article 100 of the Constitution of Ukraine there is a higher body of the National Bank called the National Bank Board. By the way, to the Board of the National Bank, you and I have delegated to our seven members of the Supreme Council. By the way, it's the National Bank Board that's developing the basic principles of monetary policy in the country. The National Bank only implements this policy. Please tell us if we've heard from the board, if we've heard from our representatives, who are on the Board of the National Bank, about the implementation of the basic principles. Among other things, we criticized Stelmacha, and the main principles for 2008 were an increase of 40 percent in money, and they returned to fight inflation to thirty - five percent. I think the National Bank was to be commended for this. So I understand the lack of love for Stellak, but let's not forget, it's a specialized, special power institute. And so the independence of the National Bank over everything in all the countries of the world. I set an example today that if the head of the National Bank were to work or violate those principles or the main principles, I think that, in accordance with the National Bank Act, the National Bank Board itself should have submitted to the President that it was inappropriate. So, Your Honor, please, let's take down the question of the discussion around Stelma, and in the other walls, here we're talking about a state institution of power that has special status according to the Constitution of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u120	The discussion is over. I am voting for the adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the National Bank of Ukraine Act, registration number 3602, please specify. [[on strengthening parliamentary control]] [[12:33:57]] For 177 The decision is not taken. Before voting on Project 3607, I would like to express the view that the bill, from my subjective point of view, cannot be explicitly regarded as having a conflict with constitutional norms. I think that the conclusion that was made is, to a lesser extent, questionable. So it is necessary to determine whether the standards laid down in this law are appropriate. From the procedure? Please log in with the procedure. Herman Hanna Mikolayevna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u121	Please give the deputy a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u122	Dear voters! Dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. I believe that this law, which was actually proposed for consideration and was not supported, has the right to be considered in the first reading over and over again. Why? Because the most fundamentally contentious position there is about the appointment of the head or the removal of the head of the Nutzbank government. And in this context, I think you could go back to the question of re-reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u123	Terjehohin Sergey Anatoliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u124	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, this is what happens to me for the first time. My card worked right now. I signed up, and I didn't push anything at all. But beyond that, I'd like them to check this whole story with my card. Besides, Miroshnichenko rightly says, let's go back to re-reading, send it all to the committee, let him prepare it more carefully.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u125	Velizanski Sergey Konstantinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u126	I'm supporting a colleague of mine, and I'm proposing that we send the bill back to read again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u127	Koleschenko Vadim Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u128	My fellow Members, I believe that we have had a very successful discussion and there is a very clear understanding that, according to article 85, part 1, paragraph 18, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the power of submission to the Supreme Council of Ukraine is within the competence of the President of Ukraine, and the Constitution does not link the decision of the Head of State with the previous adoption of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of those or other decisions. I propose to draft a new bill that will meet those questions and the requirements that there are. He was right to say that we had never asked the Nacradu, or Supervisory Council, which was formed with us, our Supreme Council. We want to do something, and we don't do our skills. That's why I think we can't support this bill, but we need to come up with a completely different one to put our nation's Nazbank under democratic control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u129	Thank you. I am betting on the adoption vote on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the National Bank of Ukraine, registration number 3607. [[on strengthening parliamentary control]] I'd like to make a statement. [[12:37:59]] For-166 The decision is not taken. I am voting on the proposal of the People's Democratic People's Deputies to send the bill for re-reading. [[No. 3607]] I'd like to make a statement. [[12:38:27]] For-161 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Dear colleagues, according to the schedule of meetings, we turn to the question of the election and release of judges. I invite the chairman of the Committee on Justice of Kiwalov Sergio Vasilovich to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u130	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies, the distinguished ones present! On January 14 and February 18, the Supreme Council Committee on Justice considered the appointment of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the head of Ukraine’s Supreme Economic Court, the election of judges on an indefinite basis and the election of judges previously elected on an indefinite basis. You are well aware of the procedure. The judges are on the balcony and in the guest bed. Draft Decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine 4083 of February 18, this year. The Committee recommends that Drag Volodymyr Petrovich be elected as judges on an indefinite basis to the Supreme Court of Ukraine; The Court of Appeal of the Kharkiv District of Titskov Olen Yuriyovna; Kyiv's Court of Appeal Calatai Nadia Felixovna; the local Żmerinian Regional Court of the Vinnitsk Region of Klapaustak Sergey Yuriovich; the local Tejačiv district court of Zakarpatsk district of Chopper Vitali Vasilovich; the local Uzhgrad District Court of Zakarpatsk district of Lemak Olez Volodymyrna; the local Lenin district court of Zaporozhye Kolesnik Snow White Hennadivena; of the local Brovary District Court of Kiev, Dutczak Igor Mihajlovich; the local Vasilkow Regional Court of the Kyiv District of Bortnicka Vito Viktorovna; the local Krasnolutsky City Court of Luhansk district of Dolotin Viktor Alexiyovich; the local Sverdlov City Court of Luhansk, Novoslovov Galina Mikolayevna; the local South Ukrainian city court of the district of Dalmatovo Galina Anatoliyevna; the local Komsomol City Court of Poltava, Vitali Viktorovich; the local Crownese District Court of the Sum district of Makarovec Alla Mikolayevna; the local Ochtyr District Court of Suma County, Ilchenko, Valentina Mikolayevna; the local Goloprist District Court of the Herson district of Matusz Oleg Ivanovich; the local Obsolonian District Court of Kiev, Bogdan Olen Aleksandrovna; the military local court of the Kiev garrison of Verlanov Sergey Mikolaiovich; the military local court of the Simferopol garrison of Senko Mikol Fedorovich; the military local court of the Hmelnick garrison of Trachuk Ruslan Mikolaiovich; the local court of the Poltava district of Bilousov Sergia Mikolaiovich; the local court of the Ravenna district of Gudak Alla Volodymyrna; the local Economic Court of the Hmeljna District of Vynogradov Valentina Volodymyrna; the local court of the city of Kiev Morozov Sergija Mikolaiovich. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u131	Dear colleagues, no one has any questions or warnings about the judges that Sergey Vasilovich announced? You don't? Then we can make a decision on the vote. Please support Supreme Council of Ukraine Decree No. 4083 “On the Election of Judges of Ukraine”, and I do not read the list. Sergey Vasilovich sounded. Please vote. [[12:43:24]] For 345. Decision taken. Let us support and wish our colleagues to act in accordance with current legislation and conscience. Sergey Vasilovich, please take the second draft of Decree 4084.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u132	The committee recommends that judges previously elected on an indefinite basis be elected as judges: The Supreme Court of Ukraine Prokopenka Alexander Borisovich; The Supreme Court of Commerce of Ukraine Biloscap Olen Volodymyrovna, Demidov Alla Markianovna, Miroshnicka Stanislav Volodymyrovich, Mishtenka Petra Kirilovich, Mohila Sergija Kostinović, Olijnik Vladimir Fedorović.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u133	Wait a minute. By Oline.? Yeah, all right, we're getting rid of it. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u134	Kyivsky, Kyiv's Court of Appeal, Barantz Alexander Mikolaiovich; and the local Rovenkow City Court of Luhansk, Božko Mikolaiovich. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u135	One moment, Volodymyr Stretovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u136	Vladimir Stretović, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense", Christian-Democratic Union. Sergey Vasilovich, I've caught you on many bad occasions and you have to tell the people again that you're continuing your practice. For decades, hundreds of judges have been awaiting consideration and appointment on the committee. But it is the candidate of the Magila Sergey Kostaninovich. People say it may be a lie that it is a relative of yours who is not yet a son - in - law or anyone. On February 4th, he writes a statement, the sixth is considered by a qualified commission, and on the 16th, yesterday, the committee made a two-week decision. Do you not find this unfair in relation to the tens, the hundreds of judges awaiting their appointment, and such facts are in Ukraine? Please explain. And to the majority, I ask not to vote in favour of Judge Mogila. Let's see why Sergey Vasilovich is so hasty in two weeks to nominate to the Supreme Court of Commerce, and remove him from the voting lists and do a separate check on this staff. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u137	Sergei Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u138	Dear colleagues, the judges of the Supreme Economic Court have not been appointed for a long time. Because of the official receipt from the Acting Head of the High Economic Court, who requested that there be no wages, that there were problems with payment of wages, should not be put to the vote. After a two-month interruption, the Supreme Economic Court had requested a committee to put all the judges on the committee. We have put a total of 17 before the Committee's consideration, I stress, judges who have had documents and who have been considered in the Committee. The Committee took a decision on all judges. The exception was those who had complaints. These are the judges of the Supreme Court who have been listed by me, they have no complaints, and if they have been, they have been closed.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u139	Do you mean farm business?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u140	The master's court, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u141	Dear colleagues, we may do so. I see more questions. Maybe, as 215 articles of the Rules tells us, we would exclude this judge and discuss it, and we would vote on those judges who have no objection, and then all the factions expressed themselves on this judge, and we calmly made our decision. Is that an option? Sergey Vasilovich, my dear colleagues, I suggest we go with the exception. And from the factions, we'll talk about it. Dear colleagues, I understand the 'proposal', but we have a clear understanding of how we view it. If there's a point to a particular judge, we're removing him, friends, and then we're talking about steering. That's why we're working on the Rules. I'm issuing ruling number 4084 on the election of judges for the expulsion of Judge Magila Sergiy Kostinovich. [[B in m in s a l in]] Sign up for a minute from the factions. I'm an honorary colleague from the faction of the Party of Regions would like to ask, I'll find you a place where you can whistle, there, by the way, you can get money for that, and in the Supreme Council, please don't whistle. Please explain. In a minute. Please, Beavs. Which one of the Communists? Please, Beavs.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u142	Dear Mikola Vasilovich, there is one question. Are there any questions to Judge Mogila? None. There are claims to Kiwalov, which you see were quickly placed. All of it. If so, why do we even exclude Mogilu from the list?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u143	Please, Oily.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u144	Dear colleagues, this is not the case with a particular judge of Mogila, who called him Stretovic, the case of what is happening with the Supreme Court of Commerce of Ukraine. For several months now, there has been a registered draft decree in Parliament to bring a situation under the Constitution with the head of this court, which for more than a year takes place illegally, contrary to the Constitution, the office of the head of the court. Therefore, the committee did not consider for some time the proposals that came after the signature of the misunderstood person, Mr. Demchenk. Yesterday, there were again questions about the candidates submitted to the Supreme Court of Agriculture. The question isn't in the judge there, which is suggested to remove, in principle: who is today shaping the frame of the Supreme Court of Commerce? We propose to put to the vote a decision on demchenk's release from the post of head of court and bring this into line with the Constitution, and only then to consider the judges of the High Court of Commerce, because there will continue to be a violation of the law. It gives birth to another disorder.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u145	Kolechenko, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u146	Dear colleagues, to begin with the presiding, I remind you that something in the Party of the Regions is to be thrown into the hall, when you see a session, there is nothing to blame. That's the first one. Second. Judge Mogile has no claim under the Rules, and there is a claim for formation. But today my colleague Leonid said that there were questions about who formed this composition of the Supreme Court? I can clearly say that this is very good, that we are forming a court without the participation of the President, who will then be elected. We already have one president of the Lviv court who has formed a team of bribers. Therefore, I propose that this issue remain in force. The list has been established in accordance with the Rules and the Law, and we have no reason to remove the name of the Mogila from the common list. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u147	Kulikov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u148	I give my word to Stretovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u149	Dear colleagues, I will explain to you and explain to the radio audience. Justice is the expression: “Let the world perish, and justice lives!” — justice. So why are there two justices, two justices? One of those judges who've been waiting for years, I can call you dozens of judges who are awaiting such a hearing on the committee. And here's the selective approach: in two weeks, in the fourth of February, the judge's statement to go to the Supreme Court, and in two weeks, we nominate him. I have doubts that there is something behind this. Why is Mr. Kiwalov in such a hurry to push him out? Let's work it out so we don't scream: courts are corrupt, courts work for bribes and everything? Why can’t the Supreme Council say its word? If engaged, say that you have a gun and vote for it. I have only doubts in my mind: Why does he want to be a judge so quickly? And I have no further doubts about the process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u150	Once again, everyone was appointed, all the candidates who were on the committee. First, the subcommittee was considered after the Committee. The subcommittee considered, placed at the meeting of the Committee. Can I explain again?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u151	Dear colleagues, we must. This is the situation. So we have a warning to the deputies of the two factions, but obviously the right and the people's deputies of the other factions who point out that there are no warnings about a particular judge. And there, Alexander Volodymyrovich, we need to consult, we're talking about Judge Mogila, and we've given warnings about the rapid procedure for submitting his candidacy, but there are no specific comments to the candidate. So now we're going to discuss whether we're going to delete it or vote on the ruling. Sergey Vasilovich, your position.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u152	But our position. Let me explain again, we're all set. We're all set! You don't have to delete him. Why, if there are no specific comments? Put it to the vote and we will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u153	How are you? Dear colleagues! The conversation is over. In accordance with the procedure laid down by the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, if there are claims to a judge, his candidature is deleted. Are there any lawsuits against the judge?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u154	There isn't!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u155	Are there any claims against the judge? Please. So it's a claim to a judge. It's Sergey Costinovich's grave, isn't it? Could you please raise your hands to give me your word? Who's got a claim? [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I would like to be responsible for what I have said. If there is no hand, then there is no claim to Judge Magila Sergey Konstantinovich. Olinick's got some pretenses, right? Please. Then the microphone to the National Deputy of Olives, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u156	Not a claim to Judge Mogila. The question is that in a single judgement, the united judges of the Supreme Court, the Kyiv Court of Appeal and the Luhansk Region, and the Supreme Court of Agriculture, to which there are claims of formation. So there's this proposal: let's vote without the judges of the Supreme Economic Court, because it doesn't make sense who's applying for these judges. We have a ruling about Mr. Demchenk, who needs to be released, which, contrary to the Constitution there, is called the head, and then the composition of the staff of the Supreme Court of Commerce. And so it is in one decree: the Most High, the Most High, and the Most High. Let's vote for everyone except the Supreme Court of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u157	Since in this case the word was not taken on the issue of petitions to a judge, I would ask the national MPs, when the procedure is under discussion, from the procedure for the preparation of documents, or otherwise, to specifically address the issue. In this case, we have a committee under the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and we have a proposal for a committee to elect judges. If there are no questions for the judges, I will put them to a vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] From the procedure? What happened to the procedure? Please log in with the procedure. Efraemov Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u158	Please pass the word to Vadim Koleschenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u159	Dear colleagues, the issue is understandable and evident. In accordance with existing legislation, the Profile Committee considered the nominations submitted, voted, and there were no objections to the Committee during the vote. Accordingly, the Committee, in accordance with the Rules, introduced the draft order for consideration by the Supreme Council. There are no claims against specific judges. There are some political differences that have arisen since the Committee's decision. And they have nothing to do with the candidatures. Once again, we have not voted on the nominations of the High Court for one simple reason for two months: there has been an appeal from the Supreme Economic Court's management because they did not have a salary. After the proposal to vote on all documents had been made, all personal cases which had been submitted and voted on. I would like to recall that it is not the judges who are elected for the first time in life — they are in fact being translated, so the accelerated procedure is that there is no doubt about it. And finally, the main one.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u160	Stonewall Valery Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u161	Kamchatya, Yulia Timoshenko, Kharkiv district. We have no questions for specific judges. We have a matter of procedure concerning a group of judges who are proposed for election to the High Court of Commerce. In our view, this procedure was disrupted and said by our colleague Oliynik, who told us what was the problem. So we suggest, we don't have, once again, absolutely no objections to look at these judges. But let's divide, divide, consider the appointment of all judges, except for those offered to the Supreme Court. In the Supreme Court, let us examine the procedure, whether it is properly introduced, or whether it is an appropriate subject who was entitled to it. And only then will we go back to that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u162	People's deputy of Kilinkarov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u163	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm a little surprised by the position of the BUT faction. I understand that this matter has been dealt with on the committee with the participation of your deputies. All but one abstention voted in favour of that decision. If we so decide on the question that we understand, there are no claims against judges here, these thousands of judges you are so concerned about will not be able to wait long enough to do so, so to speak. There is therefore a decision of the Committee, let us put to the vote and take a decision. There are no claims against judges, so there is no point today in removing anyone from the list of those put to the vote today.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u164	Password Victor Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u165	Dear colleagues, I believe that these remarks, which have now been made regarding Judge Mohila, are completely unfounded. There's no claim to his work, to his professional, professional training, to any of the national MPs, and no one has introduced them, that's the first. Secondly, I think that we should support the appointment of judges to the High Economic Court from other areas, not practice as in the Supreme Administrative, that only from the Zitomir region can judges be appointed to the Supreme Administrative Court, because Pasinuk is from there. And it may have been more appropriate to refer this court to the Supreme Administrative Court of the Ukraine. I propose not to delete, to vote as candidates for the post of judges of the High Court of Commerce, but as to the remarks made at Demchenka's address by Sergio Fedorovich, I think they are groundless. There is article 17 of the Law on the Order of Appointment and the Release of Judges, and we must follow it, and only after the release of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u166	Ladies and gentlemen, the procedure has been discussed. I'm voting on the draft Decree No. 4084 on the election of judges. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:00:23]] For 238. Decision taken. [[Applause]] We move on to the next issue of the agenda, the appointment of members of the Supreme Qualification Commission of Judges of Ukraine. Reported to the head of the committee, Koleschenko Vadim Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u167	Dear national deputies, dear colleagues! In accordance with the Ukrainian Act on Sudokustraj, the Supreme Council of Ukraine appoints two members of the Higher Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine, not of the National Deputies, but in a mandatory manner and with higher legal education. As of today, one member of the parliamentary quota committee is vacant and the other will be vacant on March 11, that is, in two weeks. The Supreme Judicial Commission of Ukraine is an important body in the justice system, makes the selection, examination and recommendation of judges, and decides on the disciplinary responsibility of judges. Given that the number of members appointed by law in 13 members and that the quorum is 11 members, these two vacancies should be filled without delay. I note that neither the law nor the Supreme Council regulations define the order of nomination. By analogy with the requirements of articles 205 and 209 of the Rules proposed by the Regulatory Committee, the People's Deputies, practically all factions and coalitions, and the opposition of all seven candidates: Stápcz Sergio Leonidovich; Volks Pavel Viacheslavovich; [[draft regulation 3541]] [[draft regulation 3623-1]] Neciporenka Aleksandra Lavrovič ; Eudkoimova Valery Aleksandrovitch ; Šumila Mikoli Yegorovich ; Zabari Yuri Sergiyovich (draft resolution 3623-5 and Andrew's Olena Mikolayovna (project 3623-6). [[draft regulation 3623-2]] [[draft regulation 3623-3]] [[draft 3623-4]] The Committee on Justice reviewed each candidate, verified compliance with the requirements established by law and endorsed the conclusion of each candidate. Draft rulings, committee conclusions along with information on each candidate are given to you. For information, I can offer you the following. Since the voting order for members of the Supreme Qualification Commission of judges of Ukraine is not defined, article 37, part five, of the Rules states that the Supreme Council should determine the type and method of voting by procedural decision. According to the practice of assigning members to the Supreme Council commission in June 2003 and February 2006, it is proposed to hold a rating vote for all seven candidates first. In the event that only two candidates obtained more than 226 votes on the basis of the results of the rating vote, the next vote would be one of two candidates. In case, according to the results of the rating vote, only one of the candidates won more than 226 votes, with a re-voting vote on the candidate who won the second largest number of votes. And in case of second-to-second re-voting, more than 226 votes, with a single total vote, or both. In the event of the non-recruitment of more than 226 votes for the second candidate by re-vote, with a total vote for only the first candidate and the next new procedure for re-nomination. In case more than two candidates have obtained more than 226 votes by the result of the rating vote, the first is a single ballot, and the second is a re-voting vote for all candidates who have won more than 226 votes and a single total vote for the two who have won the largest number of votes compared to the others. Dear colleagues, if there is a matter for each candidate personally, I can inform, if not, I ask the chairman to decide on the question of voting for the appointment of a candidate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u168	Any questions for the reporter? Please sign up. Kovzel Mikola Olegovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u169	I ask the word Shustik to pass.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u170	Who? Repeat, please, to whom.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u171	Shustik!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u172	Shustik, National Deputy Shustik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u173	National Deputy Shustik, Timoshenko Yuli Block, Ukrainian Social-Democratic Party. Since candidates are not fully discussed at faction meetings, we ask that this issue be removed.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u174	The issue is highlighted by the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, if it has already been announced. Question, please, People's Deputy Philippeenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u175	Thank you. I ask that you now support the proposal of the People's Deputy Shustik to remove this question, to vote on the removal of this issue from the debate, because in this case seven candidates are involved, the faction has not yet been determined, and at the same time we have a coalition today, the coalition agreement also states that the human rights issues are discussed previously and on the council of the coalition. So since I understand it's still until March 13 or 18, we can vote on the third number for this question, or vote on the 4th in the next plenary week. I ask you now to support the proposal to vote on the removal of this issue now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u176	National Deputy Kamchatny, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u177	Dear colleagues, the question that has been under consideration for the past two weeks is in the Supreme Council, and I do not understand why today the issue has been put into the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u178	Vadim Vasilovich! National Deputy Kamchatny, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u179	Stonehead, Timoshenko Block. Please pass the word to your colleague, Oliynik Svetoslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u180	People's Chamberlain, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u181	Honorable colleagues, perhaps the main problem of both political and other life, are the inability to make arrangements. Well, you've clearly understood the procedure. By voting, the Supreme Council delegates representatives to the High Qualifying Commission. Each of the 450 deputies can take such an initiative. Ten today, or how many are there? Well, they didn't even get along with factions, with factions, coalitions, opposition -- it's some kind of cat in a bag. Now he's offering to accept. What are we asking? As agreed in the morning. Today it is a matter of taking it down, that is, now put to the vote the question of removing it from the agenda. To conduct a proper consultation of what kind of people the Supreme Council proposes to send to the Qualifying Commission, and only then to bring them up for consideration by the Supreme Council. The MPs today, most of them, just got this list, and the Supreme Council committee drove them away because he can't block it, he's just giving it what's agreed.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u182	National MP Arjevetin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u183	Please pass it on to Heratchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u184	Heratchenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u185	Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of our faction, on behalf of the coalition, I would like to express my indignation at the behaviour of the deputy who is now standing in the rostrum and say that for the first time in the session room, we have heard a whistling as a message to the Supreme Council rostrum, to the people who are sitting in the Presidium. And I think that you, an honorary colleague, should apologize for your behavior in the hall, for allowing yourself to whistle, speaking to the presiding officers, because it is not worthy of the conduct of the national deputy. We read in the press that you're there from time to time on your factions about your colleagues' behavior. Then don't bring your stupid behavior into the session room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u186	I can answer that, can't I? So, to the leaders of the ruling coalition, I want to remind you what the chief and teacher of your own personal Yushchenka is saying to the leader of the other, from BUTT. That's when you figure it out, after that, you teach someone a life. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u187	Dear colleagues, a proposal to withdraw the matter has been made to the head of the committee today. I am proposing to the Ukrainian National Deputies that we withdraw today the question of the appointment of members of the High Qualification Commission of Judges, I ask you to identify yourself. [[13:09:46]] For 207 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, by the factions, please. Region Party – 0, "Club of Timoshenko" – 152, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" – 36, communists – 0, "Block of Lithuania" – 19. Dear colleagues, we now have several possibilities for further consideration of this issue, since it has not been supported by removing it from consideration since it is included in the agenda and schedule of meetings for today. I can use article 28 right now and put these candidates to a rating vote, and I'm going to finish this, and I'm going to finish this question today. To get back to him next plenary week. Those who say that in the next session, they're wrong because it's not a bill, it's a personnel issue, it's a mandate of the Supreme Council of Ukraine by appointment as members of the High Qualification Commission of Judges, members of the High Council of Justice, the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine and other members of the government. This question will be considered at this session. So I have a simple question for you. I can now exercise the right of a presiding officer, as provided for in article 28 of the Rules, and put to a rating vote with us to return to this question next plenary week or after a plenary week, that is, in March months. If that's accepted, supported, we'll do it now. Is such a proposal supported? Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote the chairman's proposal that, after the rating vote that he is to hold now, continue the consideration of this issue in March months. Please make up your mind. [[13:12:06]] For the The decision is not supported. Thus, we continue to consider the matter. And I now put to the vote the approval of the procedure proposed by the committee on election, the procedure for electing the members of the High Qualification Commission of Judges. Please repeat the procedure proposed by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u188	Dear colleagues, there is a procedure that follows. If, as a result of the rating vote, only two candidates have received more than 226 votes, the next ballot will be followed by a single ballot of two candidates. In the event that only one candidate obtained more than 226 votes in favour of the candidate who obtained the second largest number of votes, according to the results of the rating vote. And the third. In case of second-by-second re-voting candidate, more than 226 votes with a single total vote on both candidates, both candidates.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u189	Because there is a procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u190	Let me do it again. In case of non-recruitment, the second candidate for re-voting results is more than 226, with a total vote only on the first candidate, with the next new procedure for re-nomination.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u191	Since this procedure is not provided for by the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, I am voting on Parliament's adoption of the procedure for electing members of the High Qualifications Commission of Judges. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:14:03]] For 197 The decision is not taken. The procedure proposed by the Committee is not supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u192	What's next? It's a procedural question.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u193	This is not a matter of procedure, but of the Rules. And please sign up for a discussion on the decision-making procedure. Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u194	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I see the situation in the hall begins again, which in previous summons we have agreed never to spread when part of the faction begins to counter the ultimatum, pressure, dictatorial locks. That's not gonna happen. Let's make a deal. In this case, we are considering the necessary procedure for the construction of the Ukrainian judicial system. I can't figure out what politics is in this case. Where did these elements of politics come from in this situation? That's especially true. My comments are addressed by what I call the majority. I propose that we continue to address this issue and ask specific questions about election by vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u195	Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u196	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, Alexander Volodymyrovich, I don't think it matters whether we supported or didn't support the procedure proposed by the committee. We can and should follow the procedure you discussed regarding the 28th article. You can put it to a vote. It is not necessary for the candidate to win 226 votes or 400 votes. Out of 8 or 10 candidates, you put those two candidates to a more successful vote than others. If each of them then separates 226 votes, then the result is, if they don't, we'll go back another time to that question. I mean, we have to follow the Rules, and everything will be, I think, right and clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u197	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. That's what we do. Shevchenko Andri Vitaliovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u198	I'm handing Christmas to the olive tree.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u199	Please, the Olinick People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u200	Alexander Volodymyrovich, I know that everyone looked and saw that there were no votes to the resulting vote on this issue either on this side of the hall or on that side of the hall. You had the right and wise suggestion to transfer the matter to March of the month. It seems to me that just when the question was put to the vote, most of the deputies did not fully understand the meaning of your proposal. So I have a request to return to your proposal to move the issue to March so that the MPs can determine themselves and perhaps by that time all factions will be able to exit with a consolidated position regarding representation in the qualification of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u201	National MP Arjevetin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u202	Hand over the Prince, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u203	Please, National Deputy Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u204	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! I want to support the statement just made by Mr. Svetoslav Olijnik. In fact, we don't have any sense of breaking the files right now and wasting the precious time that many people are saying today, because the question is really not ready. Of course, from a formal legal point of view, it is possible to say that there is no regulation to discuss candidatures in factions. But if factions claim that it needs to be discussed, of course you have to go to the factions, because in that case you just don't get enough votes to make any decision that works. In view of these circumstances, there are at least three factions that ask for time to discuss the factions in the faction, I see no objection. I don't understand why the committee can't make appropriate concessions to meet factions, because no one says that these candidatures will be rejected or that some candidatures may not make positive decisions. On the contrary, the more we are going to pedal this topic now, the less.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u205	Miroshenko Yuri Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u206	Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear colleagues, I'd like to address you, please note what the committee representative has told us. It wasn't about the candidate vote, it was about defining the procedure in which we're going to do it. We're a little ahead of schedule right now. The procedure proposed is perfectly logical. And it's really not listed in our regulations. What am I offering? To return to this question, to approve the procedure now, and when it comes to the question of the candidates themselves under this procedure, it will be decided later on separately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u207	Thank you. The discussion is over. I repeat the proposal I made. I shall now exercise the right of the chairman, as provided for in article 28, paragraph 11, of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine: I will put all candidates for the rating vote, and then there is a proposal for us to return to the final decision in March-month. The procedure provided for in the Rules, I will not invent anything. I'm voting on the proposal made by the people's deputies -- Karmazin, Kirilenko, Rudchenk -- for the appointment of Ostapac Sergio Leonidovich as a member of the High Qualification Commission of Judges. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:20:30.]] For two. I am voting on the proposal made by the Kiwalov and Bondik national deputies for the appointment of Wolf Paul Viacheslavovich as a member of the Supreme Qualificational Commission of Judges of Ukraine. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:21:04]] For 197 I'm betting on the vote on the proposal of National Deputy Shustik to appoint Nechiporenko Alexandre Lavrovitch as a member of the High Qualifications Commission of Judges. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:21:34]] For two. I am voting on the proposal of the National Deputies - Kiwalova and Piscuna - for the appointment of Eudemimov Valerija Alexandrvoitch as a member of the High Qualifications Commission of Judges. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:22:02]] For -14 I am voting on the proposal of National Deputy Semerak for the appointment of Shumila Mikoli Yegorovich as a member of the Supreme Qualification Commission of Judges of Ukraine. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:22:30.]] For-9 I am voting on the proposal by the People's Deputy Buta to appoint Yuri Sergiyyovich as a member of the Supreme Qualification Commission of Judges of Ukraine. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:22:56]] For 1 I'm voting on the proposal of the national deputy Alexeieva for the appointment of Andrey's Helen Mikolayovna as a member of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:23:22]] For 216 Yes. List of nominations has been completed. I now put to the vote the motion for postponement. The finalization of this issue in March-month. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:23:58]] For 1 The decision is not taken. So we have to finish this consideration right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u208	Dear colleagues, I will now ask the secretariat to give me the results of every vote. As we've made decisions about the rating vote, we'll start with the ones that got the most and then the least. If there are two candidates, then the vote does not continue. A logical question? Logical. 226, that's the chosen one. And we need two candidatures, right? Now they will give order to vote those who have won the most. And then we'll go to the ones who got the least. And we will accordingly put the election vote to a final vote. While they're cooking, let's take a look at some of the next questions. Can't we just break up? Please invite the deputies to the session room: we will now make a responsible decision. Give me the results of the vote. Dear colleagues, here: One, two, three, four, five, six, seven candidates, yes, were there? Dear colleagues, seven candidates were put to the vote. Andreyev’s number was the highest. Andreyeva – 216 votes, then Wolf – 197, then Evdokimov – 14, Shumilo – 9, Ostapac and Nechiporenko – 2, Zabara – 1. That's right. So now I'm going to put Andrei's first candidate to the vote. Dear colleagues, we're going to vote. Attention, please. – Draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the appointment of Andrey's Olena Mikolayovna as a member of the Higher Qualification Commission of Judges of Ukraine from 11 March 2009. [[3623-6]] Please, there's a vote. [[13:26:59]] For-198 The decision is not taken. Yeah, right now. Once again, please show me, maybe I said wrong, 198? One hundred and ninety - eight, no decision taken. I'm sorry, 198. Yes, the draft Decision on the appointment of the Wolf Paul Viacheslavovich as a member of the Supreme Qualification Commission of Judges of Ukraine since 11 March 2009 has been put to the vote. Please. [[13:27:59]] For 210 The decision is not taken. The factions? Please. Region Party - 173, "Timoshenko Yuli Block" - 0, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" - 10, Communist faction - 27, "Litvina Block" - 0. Yes, the candidate for Eudemimov will be here in a moment, please prepare for it. Dear colleagues, we have held a rating vote, started with those candidates who have won the most, and now we have to go through this procedure to finish it. Well, you know what I mean. Maybe they've changed their minds. The draft Decree, registration number 3623-3, on the appointment of Eudemimov Wallery Alexanderovich as a member of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine. Please, let's vote, let's vote, let's vote. [[13:29:05]] For the five of us. The decision is not taken. Next, the draft Decree, registration number 3623-4 on the appointment of Shumila Mikoli Yegorovich as a member of the Ukrainian High Qualification Commission. [[13:29:38]] For-9 The decision is not taken. The bill, registration number 3541, refers to the appointment of Sérgio Leonidovich as a member of the Supreme Qualification of the Ukrainian Judges Commission. [[13:30:09]] For-12. The decision is not taken. The draft Decree 3623-2 on the appointment of Mr. Alexander Lavrovitch as a member of the Higher Qualification of the Commission of Judges of Ukraine is submitted to the vote. [[13:30:39]] For-26 The decision is not taken. The draft Decree 3623-5 on the appointment of Zabary Yuri Sergiyyovich as a member of the Higher Qualification of the Commission of Judges of Ukraine since 11 March 2009 is submitted to the vote. [[13:31:10]] For -6 The decision is not taken. So, your honorary colleagues, I'm asking our Justice Committee, and I'm asking the honourable faction leaders to deal with the relevant proposals, and it's desirable that we put to the vote then a draft of the appropriate ruling, when there will be signatures from factions that make up at least 226 national deputies in our community. So I'd like to start this process without delay. Question completed. Please, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u209	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, my dear colleagues, we have here at least six anti-crisis bills awaiting entrepreneurs, banks, people who don't get paid and so on. We killed for an hour what was known to be a loss, even though “The Block of Yulia Timoshenko” suggested, let us postpone the consideration of this issue when arrangements are made, as the Head of the Supreme Council has said. Unfortunately, our national deputies obviously have nothing more to do than play in the kindergarten. You like the process more than the result. Unfortunately, this is not what the country expects of us. So I propose to vote in favour that until we consider all the issues that are planned for today, no one has gone anywhere, no football, no house, no sauna, no everything else.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u210	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you, dear colleagues, to calm down, because everyone is talking about hurting someone. And let's think about it this way, let's see that there's a proposal that's already been put to the vote, I can put it again on the vote, the only thing I can do right now is announce that the morning plenary meeting will continue for 15 minutes, which is in my power. And if you have a wish, I'm re-voting the proposal to continue the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine until the finalization of the four-day agenda, that is, today. Please vote. [[13:33:56]] For 193 The decision is not taken. A draft law amending the Ukrainian Customs Tariff Act, registration number 3444, is being announced. The rapporteur is Deputy Minister of Economy Boycun Natalia Eugene. [[new editor]] Please, Natalia Eugene. From the committee to prepare Terjohina Sergei Anatoliyovich, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u211	The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council! Dear National Deputies! The draft law has been drafted by the Government with a view to carrying out the Ukrainian legislative base in line with the system of universal international law, including through the creation of the Ukrainian Customs Tariff, which is based on the new version of the Ukrainian Classification of Goods for External Economic Activities of the OCTED, which is based on a harmonised system for describing and coding goods in 2007, GS-2007, and the Combined Nomenclature of the European Union in 2007. In general, the draft act foresees the following changes to the Ukrainian Customs Tariff. First of all, it's a technical question, a change in the U.K.T.D. Codes to meet the requirements of the International Convention on a Harmonized System of Description and Coding of Goods by the Contracting Party to which Ukraine became a party in 2002. Changes and refinements in textual descriptions, footnotes to commodity groups and customs tariff sections according to changes in GS-2007. According to a report by the State Customs Service, these changes will take three weeks because computer programs are ready. Secondly, the second cluster of issues that the government proposes to introduce to this new edition is the introduction of import duty rates in line with Ukraine's international tariff obligations, in particular with the provisions of Ukraine's 250 law. This will reduce the average tariff rate from 5.09 to 4.96. The third group of proposals is related to the decisions of the Customs Tariff Council. And it's aimed at supporting national producers, particularly for the purpose of increasing the number of cattle of large cattle to reduce the stake on cattle from 5 to 1 per cent, there are proposals for detailing the codes of goods that are intended for industrial production of imported vehicles, there are proposals for reducing the rate of import duties on slabs that will allow this to be increased.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u212	Complete, please, Natalia Eugenyevna. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u213	To increase this part in glass production and to make these products more efficient. Overall, the proposals relating to the changes in the Customs Tariff Council involve not more than one hundred percent of Ukraine's average arithmetic tariff. What I'm saying is that the committee has adopted a third group of notable goods, and in general, it can be said that the Committee's observations can be implemented as soon as possible. Today, when goods are processed, import duty rates are applied in accordance with the regulations of Law 250. In general, I would like to say that, given the need for the earliest implementation of this law in relation to the fulfilment of Ukraine's international obligations, please support this government law amending the Ukrainian Customs Tariff Act on the basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u214	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Terjehohin Sergey Anatoliyovich is a co-report.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u215	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs, distinguished presiding officer! The Committee of the Supreme Council on Tax Customs Policy at its meeting on 14 January 2009 considered a draft law submitted by the Cabinet amending the Ukrainian Customs Tariff Act. [[3444]] What are we talking about? The application of tariff and non-tariff measures in most countries of the world, in particular in the countries of the European Community in all countries of the SND, except Ukraine, in particular the Russian Federation, Belarus, Moldova and so on since 1 January 2007, is based on a harmonised description system, the coding of goods in the 2007 version. Regrettably, Ukraine has quite a version of 2002, which creates a number of complications during the production process. The bill also provides for details at the national level of certain commodity subcategories of UTZED and for the adjustment of import duty rates for individual goods according to the decisions of the Customs Tariff Council. During the discussion, Ukrainian deputies, members of the committee, expressed a number of comments on the technical nature of the draft, as well as warnings about the change in import duty rates in the bill, since the main purpose of the drafting and adoption of this act is to bring the goods nomenclature of the current Customs Tariff to the requirements of the GS code description of the goods in the 2007 edition. Taking into account the above, taking into account the need to fulfil Ukraine’s international obligations, as well as to reduce the complexity of our external trade with the European Union, the Russian Federation and other countries of the world, to adopt Ukraine’s draft legislation on the condition that import duty rates are maintained at the level determined by Ukraine’s current customs tariff. In other words, we suggest replacing the codification of the year 2002 with the new year 2007 with the international one.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u216	Complete, please, Sergey Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u217	Thank you. for the international codification of goods. But in a time of economic crisis, we find any reduction in import duties proposed by the government to be undervalued by about 3,000 positions. If Parliament supports such a committee position, the bill can also be adopted in general, since it does not apply to myths, but only to the codification of different types of goods. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u218	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Let's sign up for a discussion. National MP Koleznichenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u219	I ask you to give the floor to my colleague Plotnikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u220	Plotnikov National Deputy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u221	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! I was actually writing against it, so I'm taking advantage of the possibility of acting instead of Kolesnick, but from a negative point of view. In our view, we can't accept this text because there are some warnings about the text itself. the text that is currently being highlighted. In our view, a new edition of the Customs Tariff Act would be appropriate to provide that the addition to this law, which contains the Customs Tariff, would be an integral part of it. In our view, it would also be appropriate to provide that the establishment of new and replacement import duty rates as defined by the Ukrainian Customs Tariff should be carried out by the Supreme Council through the adoption of Ukraine's laws, taking into account not only the conclusions of the Cabinet of Ministers, but also the decisions of the Ukrainian Customs Council. In addition, it is appropriate to remind that, in accordance with article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on the Single Customs Tariff, the Customs Tariff Council is to consider draft legislation on customs tariff regulation in Ukraine. That is, the accompanying documents do not contain information about the total amount of additional budget revenue that can be expected from the project's authors. In general, this is underworked material. He's still to be worked with, and I think the best case is to get back to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u222	People's MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u223	Thank you, Your Honor. Well, first of all, I want to point out that we're again considering a law that is potentially going to change enough positions in the Customs Tariff by a reduced procedure. And then we'll ask ourselves again, what kind of mistakes did we make here? However, I support the position that we must make changes to the classification. Because today this is a serious barrier to our relationship, especially with regard to the crossing of goods, the goods of the border. So actually, I would support the adoption of this law as a basis. However, I don't think we can vote in general today. If the position of the committee is to divide two parts, i.e. separately accept the classification, then separately accept the changes directly to the Customs Tariff, such a position can be accepted. But then we need to speed up the consideration of this second law, which needs to be reintroduced. I mean, change to the Customs tariff. There are these changes, many of them, but some of them are long overdue, some of them are new ideas, they need to be discussed. So maybe even divide it into a few bills. In fact, all of this takes real time and work. However, on the basis of what we can do today, we can adopt this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u224	People's deputy of Kilinkarov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u225	Please pass the word to Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u226	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, Alexandre Volodymyrovich, I understand that you are not comfortable breaking the Rules all the time, but unfortunately you are constantly violating it because it is difficult to enter in two minutes, to report a bill containing 800 pages. I mean, it's not your fault. On the other hand, those who deliberately or unwittingly make decisions about a reduced procedure are to blame. I would like to have at least one national MP present in the session room to show me this law. Would you please show me which one of you has this law? Nobody's got much. Teryohin, not there. Teryohin has one. So the law here is that we're once again such a serious bill that affects the interests of the whole state, practically every person who touches the interests of the business of the big, small, medium-sized, that affects the interests of our national economy as a whole, we accept in four minutes without knowing what it says. Let's respect ourselves, let's respect that Parliament, the institution to which we were delegated. I don't rule out, no doubt there are questions that can and should be considered in a simplified procedure. But when we go through the motions, we're going to go back to voting on ourselves, and then we're going to go back to voting on what's wrong. More than that, no one speaks of the purpose of this bill: to bring it into line with the WTO. And we're talking about the WTO, in a crisis situation, we need to work very and very carefully on this. So why do we once say that we're protecting a national producer, and on the other hand, we're doing everything we can to keep this producer going to lose.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u227	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I agree with your remarks, except for the beginning, because I follow up on the Supreme Council's decision. And I asked yesterday, and today I remind you, please make informed decisions about the reduced procedure. Because, of course, such projects, Adam Ivanovich asked which, in order to be seen, to be considered in the reduced procedure, must not be very serious. And when we're taking a simplified procedure, maybe we're going to do it differentiatedly, not everything for the day. Because I cannot go beyond the decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Sergey Anatolyovich, you weren't mentioned, so it's a replica. Dear colleagues, I'll put it to a vote. The reply is provided only if the national MP is mentioned in the presentation. Remember? Turn on Teryohin Sergey Anatoliyovich's microphone, his name was on. One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u228	Thank you. Let me use this moment to tell Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk that this is a technical law that doesn't change the moment of the committee's decision that changes the codification. That's the first one. He has no attitude toward WTO, since these are international standards of customs statistics. The Russian Federation has been using this codification since January 1, 2007, to your knowledge. And by the way, this bill was handed out to the people's deputies on February 2nd this year. Maybe he'd have to look around and, you know, tense up over the past month and a half, read what was there.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u229	I'm putting the vote on the ground. There are no replicas. I am voting on the basis of the draft Ukrainian Customs Tariff Act, registration number 3444. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:48:48]] For the 220. The decision is not taken, the bill is rejected. The factions, please. Region Party – 0, “Club of Timoshenko” – 151, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” – 50, Communist faction – 0, “Clocus of Lithuania” – 19. There is a proposal by the National Deputies for re-reading. I am referring to the re-reading of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Customs Tariff Act, registration number 3444. [[new editor]] I'd like to make a statement. [[13:49:45]] For 227 Decision taken. The bill is aimed at re-reading the first reading. Please work on the committee. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Customs Tariff is being announced for consideration. [[on the import duty rate for polyvinyl chloride]] As reported by Boycun Natalia Eugenena, deputy minister of the economy. Please, Natalia Eugene.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u230	The President-in-Office of the People's Parliament, the draft of the Ukrainian Anti-Trafficking Act, was drafted on the basis of a meeting of the Customs Tariff Council, which took place in June 2008. Under the law, the Customs Tariff Council is an authorized body that implements all the recommendations on tariff changes in the Customs Tariff of Ukraine. The adoption of the bill is based on the need to protect and ensure the stability of the national producer, to ensure consumer needs in certain types of products by changing import duty rates to individual goods. The bill provides for a reduction in the import duty rate from 6.5 per cent to zero, on polyvinyl chloride, not mixed with other substances, on the other hand, by the UCTZED product subcategory with the aim of providing national producers with raw materials, stimulating production of finished products and enhancing their competitiveness. Second, the bill proposes a reduction in the import duty rates on saddle tractors and semi-trailers, which are classified by product subcategories — tractors, wheeled and semi-trailers, new, from five to zero percent. I would like to point out that tractors for agricultural purposes follow a different code, that is, they are not related to these changes. And the code changes, the change in import duties on the semi-refrigerators, semi-container trailers from 12 percent to 0 percent. In order to replace the Ukrainian car park with means of transport that meet Euro-3, Euro-4, Euro-5 and improve the competitiveness of Ukrainian carriers. This issue was brought to the Customs Council by the Ministry of Industrial Policy to order the government to meet the requirements of the strike committee of the International Automobile Carriers. Ladies and gentlemen, please support the draft Ukrainian law on introduction proposed for your consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u231	Thank you, Natalia Eugene. Have a seat, please. The committee's report is Sergey Anatolyevich Teryohin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u232	Dear colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Tax and Customs Policy at its meeting on 19 November 2008 considered the proposed draft law amending the Customs Tariff, 3141 proposing a reduction in import duty rates for polyvinyl chloride not mixed with other substances, other suspensions for goods under category 3904-1090 from 6.5 per cent to zero, as well as saddle tractors and semi-trailers classified under categories 87 01 20 10 00, semi-trailers for semi-trailers, new from 5 to 0 and 87 16 39 30 10, semi-trailers for refrigerants, semi-containers from 12 to zero. I can say that these proposals are fully supported by key manufacturers of cable plastics for PVC in Ukraine, supported by other companies that are consumers of suspended polyvinyl chloride. We received an address from Dnipropetrovsk, Donetska, Kiev, and Ternopol. With regard to the lower import duty rates on saddle tractors and semi-trailers, according to the Ministry of Economics, 25,000 vehicles are currently being used in Ukraine, with fewer than a third of which meet the UNECE standards “Euro-3”, “Euro-4”, “Euro-5”, which makes it impossible for our transport sector to develop in the supply of goods abroad or abroad. Because domestic producers do not produce saddle pullers and semi-trailers that meet European standards, transporters are forced to upgrade their composition by purchasing such equipment in European countries where the main manufacturers are concentrated. The Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council supports the adoption of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u233	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u234	Thank you. In the light of the above, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law adopted by the Cabinet amending the Customs Tariff at number 3141 as a basis and as a whole as a law. There's nothing to do on the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u235	Please sit down. Let's sign up for a discussion. Demyanchuk Victoria Alexandrovna
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u236	Please pass the word to Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u237	Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u238	Thank you, Victoria. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, we are about to witness a unique case when, for the first time in many years, I agree with what Sergey Anatoliovich Teryochin has reported. Finally, he began to care for and protect a national producer. Here, no doubt, I think your colleagues, the entire session room will support this bill, because it's about what's worth supporting, it's worth accepting, especially what's going on with technology that we don't have enough. You know, now the different organizations of carriers, now the strikes, and the organizations are running, so we have to support this bill. And I propose to support the committee's decision because it's on one page, because it's all checked out here and there's a decision by the Cabinet of Ministers, so there's no objection to supporting it. I propose, indeed, to support the proposal to accept it in the first and in general as a law. The only thing I'm asking is, Alexander Volodymyrovich, is if we get what we're going to vote for as a whole, as a law to change the deadline for entry into force, not as of January 1, 2009, but to write: since the publication of this law. Thank you and please support everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u239	Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u240	Dear colleagues, the customs-import adventure that has long been taken into arms by today's government, lives and prospers. Look at the name “polyvinyl chloride”. What's with the agricultural equipment? Two orders in April this year, the 461r and 468r orders were made, the budget costs were purchased abroad and the purchase of agricultural technology abroad. At the same time. [[B in m in s a l in]] At the same time, I'll tell you everything, I just look like it, I get it. At the same time, we see a stop to herson's agricultural machinery, the city of korovograd. Please tell me, how long has it been since the U.M.S. doesn't release wheeled tractors? What does a wheel tractor have to do with polyvinyl chloride? Zero rate to import tractors! Dear colleagues, I'm gone, dear colleagues, if we're going to aggregate into the parts for this day, we're going to pay for the same. Sergey Anatolyovich, don't interrupt me, I won't discuss it with you, don't show your fingers, or you'll break. If we're on our tape. Why do we have to pay the full amount of our production from abroad, and pay the full amount of our taxes, why do we have to have foreign tractors drive at zero? Well, explain to me, Ukrainian patriots. Including you when you said it was the support of a domestic manufacturer. Cable, no problem, no joke, please. But what are the trailers, semi-trailers and tractors for?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u241	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u242	Dear National Deputies! Yuri Carmazin. You know, I just heard the speeches. Or we don't want to work it out. What's the point? Our semitrailers, which we are talking about right now, are not allowed into Europe. Is that known or not? That's why our people are in a bad situation. Transporters Who Today? Poles work in our market, Moldovans, Romanians, Bulgarians. So it's about letting go now. We're going to lose 20 million, but we're going to win 50, maybe more millions. But our people will work. That's the first one. Why won't they let us in? Because the engines don't match Euro-3, Euro-4, everything. That's why they won't let go. That's why these performances are like this. The government made absolutely the right offer. And as far as cable production is concerned, it's an export product that we can sell for export, and it's going to be cheaper and competitive. So let's do everything and adopt this law as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u243	Thank you. The discussion is over. I am voting on the adoption of Ukraine's Amendments to the Ukrainian Customs Tariff Act, registration number 3141. I'd like to make a statement. [[14:01:13]] For 242 Decision taken. Wait a minute. Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk proposed a change to part two of this law. This law takes effect from the day it was published. Instead of what is written here, since January 1, 2009, the law cannot take effect as of January 1, 2009. I'm putting to the vote Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk's proposal, please identify yourself. [[14:01:59]] For 104 The decision is not taken. The proposal before the law is with the national deputy Teryochin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u244	Adam Ivanovich is absolutely right to change the date, but we have a different rate change schedule according to the Ukrainian Customs Code. They change 30 days after the law takes effect, any bets. Hence, not from the day of publication, but 30 days after the law came into force. And then this will be in line with the general rules of the Customs Code and the Customs Rules. It's for customs adaptation, you know. So it's an offer with such a right to accept in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-19-m0.u245	I'm betting on the vote on the proposal of the national deputy Teryochin, this law takes effect 30 days after publication, and I'm asking you to identify yourself. [[14:03:08]] For 246 Decision taken. Is there a denial of national MPs to put this project to the vote as a whole? There's no objection. I am voting on the adoption as a whole as a law, Ukraine's Amendments Act to Ukraine's Customs Tariff, registration number 3141, taking into account the change that has now been voted on in the Chamber. I'd like to make a statement. [[14:03:46]] For 247 Decision taken. The law has been passed. The morning plenary session is closed. The evening plenary meeting will begin at 16:00.
