ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:03:07]] They registered cards in the 437 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, let me give you an overview of the plenary work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from 20 to 23 October 2009: six plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine took place, 67 issues of agenda. As a result of the review: 21 laws and 17 regulations were passed, 9 bills were passed on the basis, 17 bills in and 11 draft decrees were rejected, and 105 parliamentary requests were made as a result of the consideration of President of Ukraine's proposals. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the birthday of our colleague, Sinice Artem Mikolaiovich. Let us greet him together and wish him every success. [[Applause]] Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with article 25 of the Ukrainian Supreme Council Rules, are given 30 minutes on Tuesday for statements by authorized factions with proposals, announcements, and reports. Please sign up for the factions. Please put the names of the people's deputies on the board. Mikola Martinenko, faction "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense". Jaroslav Suhi will be next. Alexander Ephraim will perform.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u2	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The electoral campaign is not the only test for Ukraine. Another shock was the dangerous flu epidemic. We support a government that does everything possible to overcome adversity. The necessary drugs are taken, and the entire executive vertical is mobilized. Discussion with individual ministers at this time of crisis will not stop the epidemic. The Supreme Council’s help in the fight against the flu should be expressed, not in loud statements, but in the selection, if it takes millions of dollars to fight the epidemic. The responsibility of Parliament is to subdue the executive power during this difficult time. Our faction stands ready to support the timely adoption of changes to the State Budget for the purpose of allocating the necessary funds. And what you don't have to do is put pressure on society. We see that once the election rally is over, Parliament's rostrum becomes the main venue for the pianist. Sadly, however, the election campaign has a negative impact on the fight not only against the epidemic but also on the economic crisis. Politics has smothered the economy and the social sphere. Victor Yushchenko gave green light to the Law on the so - called raising of social standards. This law was signed not by the President, but by the Presidents. The Head of State has demonstrated that he has ignored all arguments against this populist law, although the President has advised him to promise this law even the professional administration of his own Secretariat. Unfortunately, in the midst of a war with the government, the President is willing even to break up relations with the IMF, although in these difficult times international aid is vital to our state. Let the Region Party and Victor Yushchenko make an honest statement that they are taking responsibility for the tragic consequences for the economy and the welfare of people, because Ukraine is looking forward to a surge in unemployment, the closure of businesses, the rapid rise in inflation, the debt of wages. A couple more of these laws, and the country may not live to see the first round of presidential elections. We're running out of flu epidemics, so there's another gas epidemic on Ukraine. The Russian Prime Minister calls everyone he can and frightens, as if by violating Ukraine's gas obligations, several times a day. What we pay for gas on time is out of the question. In the days leading up to the heating season, Russia is relaunching the fear - inspiring season of Ukraine. On the other hand, our president, requiring a review of the gas agreements, has brought to the Russians a new topic: the renegotiation of contracts. It's a question of diplomacy, of negotiation, not of ultimatums. Sadly, Yushchenko is actually creating the image of an unscrupulous and unreliable partner in Ukraine. Victor Andriyovich’s advisors may strongly advise him to play a gas map built on government charges of all sins. But will voters understand such a game in a foreign field? There are many problems in our energy, and much effort must be made for uncomplicated and even painful reforms. The natural gas market law needs to be passed, by the way, by the government to Parliament; sooner or later, we need to move to market prices for the population, with the simultaneous targeted compensation of the low-income; we need to minimize the share of gas in the energy supply structure and little more, but let's do it in a balanced and professional way. It is not political intrigue that counts for the electorate, but Parliament’s effective work. Our faction is ready for this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u3	Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov, faction of the Party of the Regions Oleg Zarubinsky will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u4	Respectable compatriots! Dear colleagues! Allow me to express the words of grief and compassion to families who have died of a cruel illness. From this rostrum we, as representatives of the faction of the Party of the Regions, turn to the government and personally to the Prime Minister and Minister of Health. The lives of dozens of people on your conscience! If you still have it. We have long and many times warned all that today’s authorities are a huge threat to Ukraine because of their terrible nonprofessionalism and populism. Think of how many times the opposition government has called for the so - called orange unique command to leave and not torture the country, for sooner or later it will be a great disaster. A year ago, the authorities fell asleep in economic crisis, completely unprepared for what we had warned two years ago, countering the crisis only with Prime Minister Timoshenko’s call for the crisis to pass over Ukraine and we have nothing to fear. As a result, the crisis has not only passed us, Ukraine, but it has caused our economy such losses as no other country in the world, because in no country in the world, the devaluation of the national currency has reached 50 percent, as it did with the bracelet. In no country in the world, industrial production has been reduced by 65 percent, and in some places it has been reduced by 90 percent, as in domestic engineering. As a result, today the vast majority of Ukrainian citizens are in poverty. Tens of millions of our fellow countrymen have lost either their savings, or their jobs, or their housing, and often all of this together. That's how it works. And in such a terrible state, the country and the people faced a new, far more frightening challenge: the epidemic of the deadly California flu, which has already killed dozens of people, because the country has once again found itself completely unprepared for a new terrible threat. In September, in early October, professional measures were needed to stop the flu epidemic. Just as last year the world was preparing to face a crisis, this year all governments were preparing for the flu epidemic, all except the government of Timoshenko. Because what else can be explained is that today all of our neighbouring countries not only fully meet their own needs for prevention and treatment, but also send – thanking them for this – humanitarian assistance to Ukraine, for the government that this flu seems to have been like a thunderstorm in the middle of the clear sky. That is why our neighbors, some of whom have experienced the epidemic even before us, are under control, and in Ukraine, people die every day, and they are victims of criminal inaction in the field of health. It is a terrible price paid by Ukraine and their people for the nonprofessionalism of today’s authorities. And if financial chaos and economic ruin can yet be overcome by expelling this free government and transforming it into real professionals, human life will never be restored. We ask you: Who is responsible? The question is rhetorical, because the responsibility of everyone is a well-known answer, this is today's government, Timoshenko. If last year the price of this government’s mistakes was an economic financial catastrophe, this year it is already a far more terrible price. We're dealing with a humanitarian disaster, because every day we lose not money, not jobs, not businesses, but people's lives. Let me ask you what this government is worth, with the permission to say, is a government that, despite numerous warnings, has not been able to prevent and allow from the beginning the destruction of the economy and then the terrible epidemic. And the question is also rhetorical, because for all of us, obviously, there's just no government in the country, there's no authority in the country. Because if there were really power in the country, we wouldn't be where we are right now. Ukraine is experiencing two epidemics today, on the one hand a cruel disease that takes away health and even life, and on the other hand an epidemic of lying and powerlessness, which left people alone with the flu, poverty, unemployment, invulnerability and injustice. And if there are cures against the disease, only surgical intervention will help. Now, under the cover of the epidemic, the authorities are trying to push the country into a state of emergency. All these poor dictators in other people's troubles are trying to preserve their power at any cost. Let's say you can't do anything, we'll get through the epidemic, but.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u5	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u6	But no dictatorships and no extraordinarys. We know that the country will finally begin to recover in both the direct and the figurative sense of the word as soon as the people remove the orange populists and adventurers from the Council. And he's going to do it pretty soon -- January 17th, 2010.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u7	Thank you. Oleg Zarubinstsky, faction of the Lithuanian Block. Adam Martinyuk will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u8	Oleg Zarubinsky, Block of Lithuania. Respectable citizens, respectable colleagues! The problem of the epidemic is poverty, it's more than a medical problem, it's a social problem. Almost three years ago, at the December 2006 national convention, the People’s Party identified the most important prerequisite for the approval of Ukraine as a modern - day economically developed healthy state of permanent, systematic, and effective work to overcome poverty. The three years that have passed since then have clearly been confirmed, and in the context of a systemic crisis, the understanding that poverty is the most painful problem for the country has been further updated. A poor state cannot be democratic, independent and authoritative in the international arena, cannot ensure the full protection of the country, in international relations a poor country will never truly defend the interests of its citizens. The poor state is unable to build partnerships with powerful countries on parity grounds. But it's not even the most important thing. Above all, poverty is a source of hopelessness and frustration, social pessimism and social morality, and it is finally a direct path to economic collapse and social explosion, as it is increasingly difficult to fill the State Budget and keep the economy in check, at least to provide vulnerable levels of the population. For no one is the secret that the oligarchic capital is parasitic to the poverty of citizens and hinders the strengthening of the middle class. The oligarchy empires, which receive huge profits from minimal capital investments, are centered on jobs with monopoly. According to official figures from the State Committee of Statistics in the first half of this year, the operating costs of implemented work and services are 7.1 percent. The underestimated three times the cost of labor is the open exploitation of tens of millions of our citizens. And in these conditions, the booming shadow economy feeds on poverty and at the same time complicates the implementation of social programs. A circle is formed. On the one hand, social problems are exacerbated, and on the other hand, further economic departure in the shadows reduces the cost of combating poverty. Given that the shadowing of the economy in Ukraine in the context of the financial and economic crisis has become total, and politically uninvolved experts and researchers in its shadow economy estimate between 50 and 60 percent of the gross domestic product, it poses a real threat to the national security of the state at present. Ukraine's crisis stage is characterized by the following main types of shadow economic activity: the release and implementation of unaccounted goods; the provision of unaccounted for services; the illegal and smuggling of goods and their circulation; the illegal privatization of state and municipal property; criminal investigations; the illegal use of natural resources and beneficial fossils. I called only part of the list of major types of shadow economic activity. By the way, all who are obliged to avoid it and to fight it are well - aware of it. Why is this not done? The answer is obvious: The interest of many managers and law enforcement officials in the center and places of shadow economy and shadow income. With the grey shadow economy channeled to the official sector, it would be possible to increase tax revenues to the budget by tens of billions of dollars and increase social protection for the population, support investment. According to the National Academy of Sciences, this resource is real for improving the lives of citizens in a financial and economic crisis. But now, more than ever, you have to finally get on with it. And the objections to the presence of the shadow sector and in other countries do not seem sincere. After all, those who make this argument know the exact extent of inconsistency. In addition, Ukraine has a much higher incidence of shadow economy because our country is having a double shock. The global economic and financial crisis is driven by the legal aberration and corruption, the degraded system.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u9	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u10	A degraded state administration system, as well as a technological stalemate. The conclusion is one and it is obvious. The massive poverty of citizens and the prosperous shadow economy are intertwined and mutually stimulating problems. In defeating the second, the State will overcome the first. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u11	Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, Communist faction. Michael Tomenko will then perform.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u12	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters, unfortunately, every plenary week of the Supreme Council we begin with an extraordinary event. Every week we don't start out with our work planned, and every week we start talking about what doesn't make the state beautiful, what destroys the state. When I spoke last week, I spoke and kept stressing and repeating the phrase, “This is not the way to live anymore!” This is the title of a book recently published by the leader of the left - centered forces of Simonenko. Some have urged me not to politicize and speak without politics, but please give me the answer to the question of how we can talk without politics about people’s lives. How can we talk without politics about the catastrophe, the constant catastrophes that accompany our nation? You can't do that. You see, it's like in a state under control, as if in a state everything, we're going to be listening to you now, and we're going to be told in more detail what's going on and how it's going to be done. But I don't believe it. And you probably don't believe it, because the Cabinet of Ministers calls one number, the Ministry of Health calls it a very different number. According to the Cabinet of Ministers today, only 14 confirmed cases, according to the Ministry of Health, are about 30. And these are the numbers of the mind. The Minister's office is setting up a sort of emergency, declaring quarantine. Yesterday we were informed that during the last one or two days, the issue might be quarantined throughout the state. And representatives of the Ministry of Health are speaking and saying, “There is no swine flu epidemic in Ukraine.” Is it or is it not? Here's the level of government governance, here's the qualifications of those who lead extraordinary, extraordinary, authoritative, irresponsible commissions, including at the highest level of government. As never before, I would like to take this opportunity once again on behalf of the electorate, on behalf of more than 300 deputies, who have, thank you, supported Simonek and Matthew's bill to introduce a moratorium on the price of medical drugs, to the President: don't listen to the pharmacists who want you not to sign this law. Think about it. Yesterday, representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers gave the figures at the Conciliation Council meeting that for four or five days the pharmacy had an annual standard. In 4-5 days, the annual standard for the sale of certain kinds of products. Given that this product was released at 10 times higher than before, it can be easily concluded that in 4-5 days, pharmacists fulfilled a 10-year marketing standard for their products. That's how you can stop, you can't play on the mountain and the trouble of the state and the people -- you can. But this is the private sector. It's a private business, it's profit on a man's mountain. Is there not enough reason in the state to have a government pharmacy? Is it hard for the state to keep its system? Health care is still a national issue, so why is there no national pharmacology? Because it's not convenient. Because those who take advantage of it do not give them the opportunity to be. Each of you, who has worked especially in Soviet times, well knows what a state reserve is. In fact, if there is no such thing as connections in Soviet times in the national reserve. Whatever happened to those executives, it's clear. Today, there is no link, and there will be no link, since it is sewn in schools, sewed in schools, sewed wherever anyone can, or desired. I went to my friend's office to say that the state reserve management was cleaned up by everyone in their time of independence, so that there's nothing even mice can do about it. So for what, then, is the government of the state? And such examples, unfortunately, can be said very much and very much. We're really talking without the politicization of helping people. For example, we have instructed that all transportation that is available to our friends on the spot will help and when it is necessary to get people to the hospital.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u13	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u14	Again and again, dear colleagues, unfortunately, we start each week with the P.P. and unfortunately every week we have to find out that we can't continue to live like this! How are you supposed to do that? We've got to get the communists back in power!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u15	Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u16	Dear colleagues! Once again, I want to say that this session room must have some kind of bad energy, because yesterday on the Conciliation Council, it looked like we're going through a country and we're thinking about how to get out of trouble. But only we entered this room, and only everyone sat in their factional seats, apparently the task of presidential candidates, the parties began to take the mountain. I'm most afraid that we're "painting" the flu. In our own time, we “partied” because some political forces said that vaccination was not necessary in Ukraine, and for two months or three months we were convinced that it was evil. And they made it a party flag, and now we don't know what to do to explain to people that it's not evil party. The president vetoed the government's decision to buy excessive drugs because he was fighting the government. Now we don't know how to get out of this situation. Is there not enough sense in us today to be able to partisanize the flu? I am absolutely convinced that yesterday’s conversation at the Conciliation Council should be at the heart of today’s conversation. In a discussion of a common plan of action, how to deal with this problem, not how to make money at the political ball. Because we already have three categories of people on the flu epidemic -- I call them information panics that run all over the air, and they say, "You've heard that so many people have died there and the numbers are grinding more and more?" I want to ask, “Do these people have a conscience? ” They'd rather go to Ternopil, to Lviv and help these people, not run through the canals. There is a category of economic marauders who have decided to take advantage of this situation and make all they can make. And then yesterday, there was a category that I call the Russian language "information smarts," which comes in and says, "Well, what do we have? No, it was either the Americans or the Russians or the Timoshenko government. Similarly, my advice is to go to the hospital and talk to those people and tell them that it is a fictional political myth or political advertising. So, my friends, I'm absolutely convinced that today we all have to deal with this problem together, not with partisanism or politics. I looked at two of our decrees registered. One is the release of ministers. Let's get Ukraine free from the flu first, then we'll release the officials. This is the know-how of the Ukrainian opposition when some trouble begins: let's get everyone out of the way who's responsible for this disaster. Let's do it, let's do it in order, and then -- let's call the ministers here, let's listen to who we need -- let's get rid of who we need. The second question I wanted to raise. We have a bad point of view as soon as winter begins, the president starts talking about gas and Russia. For two years now, we have survived the winter of 2006, 2009 when the President was involved in gas and Ukrainian-Russian relations. The request of our team to focus on important, but not such pitiful directions for Ukraine. Maybe artistic, maybe there's some other gas out there that's already miserable, gas contracts with Ukraine and Russia. Let the government do it, let the experts do it, because if the president goes in for the third time, it's going to end badly. The third thing that's very important is that we, my friends, go to the President's Secretariat and scream. There's a normal situation, there's masks, and everyone feels normal there. This is about election issues. We need to get out of the situation calmly today. There is a decision of the Constitutional Court and our faction proposes to follow the Constitutional Court's principled warnings, on the basis of the general warnings of the Venice Commission, to amend the Presidential Election Act. Do not make this a big problem and move forward calmly, proving that we are a civilized European country. Instead, he wanted to draw attention to one promise made by all political forces. Today there is a bill from our faction. We don't claim to be exclusive to the party, to hold elections to local self-governance authorities for open lists. There's a lot of people fighting for open lists. We are confident that today we will begin to move on to this model and to the elections of local self-government and to the elections to parliament. So if there's a desire, there's a mood, we can work our way through all the questions and not carry the rallying electoral element here. I am absolutely convinced that we should work this way. To be the main slogan, we have a job, not for presidential candidates, but for people. Working, not for its political party, but for Ukraine. If we do so, we will be proud of both the country and the parliament. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, the factions are over. I ask the Secretariat for the suggestions made in the statements, statements, and appeals made by the national deputies to prepare appropriate assignments. Dear colleagues, we now have to consider the question “The situation in Ukraine in connection with the flu epidemic and pandemic A/H1N1 flu and the first-ever response to the spread of pandemic flu in Ukraine. Such rules of procedure are proposed. Honorary colleagues, report by Prime Minister Timoshenko Yulia Volodymyrovna on questions within 20 minutes, a co-report by Prime Minister Timoshenko Ulya Volodyrovna on health issues of Bacheka Dmitrovna in up to 10 minutes, information by Minister of Housing and Communications Affairs Alexia Kucherenka in up to 10 minutes, information by the head of the relevant committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine - in up to 5 minutes, information by Deputy Chief of Staff of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Yaremenka Alexandr Stepanovič - in up to 7 minutes, presentation by the scientific community of Commissioner Sergio Vasilovich, Director of the Institute of Biochemics of the Decision of the Paladin National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine - in up to 7 minutes. Is there no objection? Dear colleagues, since the problem is unusual and we are defining with you the procedure and rules for dealing with this issue, we need to vote in favour of the rules on the proposed issue. I just got off the phone with an offer. Is there no objection? Please vote. [[10:34:17]] For 355 Decision taken. Now, let's wait a minute for the Prime Minister of Ukraine and move on to the question. Dear colleagues, before this issue begins, there is a great request. Realizing that this subject is a priceless topic during the election campaign, realizing one thing that we should demonstrate responsible reasonableness, I stress the responsible reasonableness in discussing the matter. So that society can have peace, and most of all, results. Because judging from what was happening, if there was no such thing, it was worth trying to close down all the other subjects and write down all the other problems of our lives. So I would ask for a calm, balanced, and responsible conversation. And above all, the proposals for decisions that we have to make. You are given a draft decision that is prepared for this purpose. Since we have to make an urgent decision, I would ask that speakers propose clarifications, changes, and additions to this project. This is the first time. Secondly, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has introduced a draft law, registration number 5301, amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2009 which proposes that 1 billion dollars be sent to the Cabinet of Ministers Reserve Fund to allocate funds for such and other events. I would ask the committee to consider this issue expeditiously, and we are all determined to make this decision. I've already stated, my fellow Members, the rules of procedure. You voted for him. So let's maybe listen to the Minister of Housing first. Dear colleagues, I have such an offer, one minute, it will suit you. Then let us, while there is no Prime Minister, obey the Minister of Housing and Social Affairs. [[Applause]] Is there a Prime Minister? Dear colleagues, in the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Prime Minister Timoshenko Yulia Volodymyrna teaches Ukraine. Julia Volodymyrna, well - being, and welcome you to the presentation.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u18	Honorable compatriots, Honourable Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Honourable National Deputies, Honorable Ministers! Today, I would like to thank the Supreme Council for considering one of the most important issues of today's day: the development of influenza diseases, acute respiratory diseases in Ukraine, and that today we will be able to work together with the Supreme Council and the government to address the most effective ways of overcoming these unfavourable conditions -- the increase in influenza and acute respiratory diseases in Ukraine. Dear friends, you know that since the beginning of spring in the world at the level of the World Health Organization, it has been found that there have been new diseases in the world for a completely new revision of the flu -- the H1N1 flu, the so-called California flu. And that is what has happened since these times. That all countries, with directives and advice from the World Health Organization, have begun preparing for the expected flu epidemics with a new revision of this flu. Similarly, Ukraine began to prepare. And if, on June 11, 2009, WHO announced the sixth -- the highest level of danger of this pandemic -- we adopted, in April-months, certain first government decrees that allocated the necessary money from the Cabinet of Ministers Reserve -- 50 million dollars. In addition, we have made all the necessary decisions by the government to ensure that the influenza is not spread in Ukraine, namely: on June 9, 2009, a special commission was set up to coordinate all activities in Ukraine to prevent the spread of infections, and an organizational plan of government conduct was approved at three levels of risk. The first is the lowest, the second is the middle and the third is the highest level of danger. For each level of danger, these documents of this commission have fully foreseen the entire algorithm of power from central to local. And that's how we prepared for the country to have all the levels of risk of getting into the flu epidemic. 50 million dollars were earmarked for purchase, I emphasize, exclusively for hospitals on the free basis of all necessary medical supplies, and in addition, laboratories that in Ukraine did not have the same level as they needed in the regions, and plus artificial ventilation equipment and everything else that was needed to get a person out of a difficult condition. For 50 million dollars, all contracts were made and all necessary purchases were made. In addition, we have done everything we need to put out contracts for the purchase of medical equipment at the expense of government guarantees in other countries, focusing on the exact medical systems needed to prevent epidemics and to provide first aid to people. But I have to say that despite all the measures that have been taken, Ukraine announced in the 9th districts of Ukraine a quarantine that was a response to overcoming the epidemiological barrier in these areas, that is, the number of daily diseases per 100,000 population. And we were obliged to do so in order to apply all of us, without exception, to the third level of danger, this is the highest level of danger in the state, and to allow this effect to stop the epidemic. In order for you to feel the general figures and the general statistics and understand the state of the country today, I'd like to give you some important statistics. First of all, you and I run statistics every year on the number of people who are sick and died from influenza and acute respiratory infections. I can give you a couple of digits to make you feel like a comparison. For example, in 9 months 2009, the number of people who suffer from flu and acute respiratory infections is 5 million,316 thousand,524. If we compare the same 9 months in 2007, which was considered to be more or less successful, we had at the same time the number of people who died from the flu and GER 6 million 279 thousand 819 people, almost not a million more. In addition, the numbers that I think deserve attention, and which we now have to analyze, are the number of people who are sick and dead just because of the flu and its complications, minus just acute respiratory infections. Where there was a clear diagnosis of the “flu” and as a result of complications, there are statistics of the dead. If we take 2007 and 9 months is hard statistics, then we have 472 thousand 198 people sick in 9 months 2007. In 9 months 2009 it was 163,000 091. It's just the flu, without the grub, I emphasize. And now the dead, which is important. During the 9 months of 2007, 4,000 people died of the flu and its complications. During the 9 months of 2009, 3 000 822 people died from the flu and its complications. It's a statistic that is fixed by the Statekombt, and every digit can be tested. Then the question is: Why did we introduce epidemiological conditions in nine areas and quarantines? It is because the daily number of diseases exceeds the epidemic threshold. This means that it absolutely requires the introduction of an epidemic, a quarantine. Now, with regard to preparation and figures for today. For this moment, at this moment, we had 19 000 people with the flu on November 2, 2009, and 236,327. Total 255,000 516. In addition, 71 people have died today since the beginning of this event, called epidemiology and quarantine. I would also like to tell you the following things. If today's HRI is both the flu and everything else -- together -- has got 255,000 516 people sick, then for the beginning of the epidemic, as we say, we have 220,000 Tamflu packages in our possession. This is what was prepared for centralized purchases and on the basis of verified availability in pharmacy networks. This means that the country of Tamflu was provided for the beginning of the epidemic. In addition, when it comes to the number of diseases and the number of diseases that have been associated with them, it is clear that we had the full supply of the first drugs we need. At the same time, we literally got a special purchase procedure last night, in just two days we organized and purchased 300,000 Tamiflu packages, which, if you take the total amount, the total amount of Tamiflu in the country is already twice the number of diseases in the whole and in the flu. And we're also buying 300,000 of these packages this week. All of this, I emphasize, is distributed in hospitals, not in pharmacies. And when we hear some messages today that we've delivered 300 packages, and there's no one in the pharmacies, we've actually bought them not for pharmacies, but to provide all the hospitals that are today providing emergency care, ambulance stations with these drugs, and antibiotics. And so that if you go to a doctor, 100 percent of these drugs are available. And today we reach this level of security, and it certainly seems free to people. If you put drugs in pharmacies, especially considering that almost all the networks today are private pharmacies, it means that people will not be given these drugs for free, but will be handed over at speculative, overpriced prices. And sometimes people won't even be able to get to these drugs when they need them. That's why our top priority is to provide exclusively hospitals and on a free basis to help people. The fact that we have such a higher level of statistics every day at the same time is also explained by the widespread information campaign that is being conducted throughout Ukraine today, that people do not have to deal with self - care, that they do not have to use drugs that are not prescribed by a doctor today. And that's why today we're asking people to go to hospitals, to ambulances, to doctors. And we account for them all, so we prevent the epidemic from spreading in the same way. And that's why statistics, which today actually seems to be increasing at the daily level, including the answer that people have started talking to doctors. But at the same time, the situation in nine areas seems to be as follows: in eight areas of the last century, we have either stabilized the situation or slightly reduced the relative increases in disease, the Volin region is the only one of those nine areas that has increased today’s increase in the incidence of related diseases, and that is why we are responding fully to this, providing additional medicines and providing additional medical equipment. The point is that we have a problem with marle’s medical connections. All medical connections need to be divided into two groups: the first is one-time ones, which can be used depending on the time in cities of a population of two to four hours, and then this mask needs to be thrown out. These masks come to be summed up more expensive than using an apricot, repeated use of a medical connection. And that's why we paid attention. As we prepare for such projected epidemics, we have prepared in the reserve, an exact figure for you right now, the name, 10 million 950,000 feet [950,000 m] of medical gauze, from which 98 million,550,000 medical connections can be made for people today. The entire state supply of medical gauze was unlocked three days ago, and the gauze binders have been installed in all areas today. You can see at first glance that the number of gauzes and medical connections that can be produced from this doubles the population of Ukraine. In addition, by the powers that are now being deployed in Ukraine in every area, each head of the district government is responsible for in 10 days, and we are already sewing for 2 days, we can make the marle ties completely out of this gauze. But there are also tens of millions of one - time medical masks in the country that were the first to be used by humans. In addition, you can see that not all people are ready to wear these ties, and not all use them. And I don't think our people need to be treated like helpless people and unable to do anything. Each person or perhaps a family can wear such medical masks with a banal net in two hours. All the absolutely technology of stitching these masks, the medical standards are being communicated to people today through the media. Now, separately, I would like to say about pharmacies in Ukraine, the main complaints of people today about what's going on in pharmacies. I think it's completely wrong to apply politics in all these years, that all the pharmacies we have today are either private or a small fraction of the remainder of them are communal. The state doesn't have a powerful intervention network of pharmacies today, where you can sell drugs that are centralized, and guarantee that they don't have prices of 2, 3 times higher. And that's why, by using the panic attacks that were born in society, it's because people started buying drugs not just for the sick, but against it, and the fact that, in 2-3 days, half a year's supply was sold in all the warehouses and all the drug pharmacies, it's clear that the deficit in the drug pharmacies was created. In addition, shoplifting began by the drug owners themselves and by some manufacturers. At a time when antibiotics and all devices that are similar to Tamiflu and Tamiflu themselves traveled twice or three times. And here's the question, not just to the government, but to all the power structures. I appealed to the Attorney General's Office to violate the extensive mass testing of pharmacies, pharmacies, and to bring criminal responsibility to those owners and managers who are currently profiting from human misery. In addition, the Tax Administration, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the State Price Inspectorate, and the State Medical Quality Inspectorate are involved. And I can say that two or three days and all criminal cases that could violate the IMF would be violated, which could be breached by tax, would be violated. And those who are criminals today will certainly be brought to criminal responsibility. The same is what I expect from the Attorney General’s Office, to whom I can write and count on a good answer. Dear friends, there is another question that has been raised in society that concerns the availability of laboratories that can do adequate high-quality analyses in Ukraine. I think we all understand that there are several levels of such laboratories, there are analytical labs that can find out what a virus is, they can analyze the course of an epidemic and, of course, work out a strategy of response to the epidemics that are expected or spread in Ukraine. Such laboratories in Ukraine today are two, one of them on the highest European standards, and not every country in Europe has such a level of laboratory. It began to finance and build in 2005. Today it is fully started and functioning. Yesterday we visited this laboratory and looked at how and at what speed these tests could be done. But that's not enough. There must be a special laboratory in every area at the level of sanepides that can do mass analysis on citizens and medical institutions. It's for when we allocated 50 million dollars that we bought 37 laboratories per area, depending on the population in Ukraine. These labs are now either located in areas, or those that are being transported are being delivered to the region. And I think that once in 18 years in Ukraine there must be a laboratory network that doesn't give in to other European countries. If you now hear that this virus needs to be analyzed in London’s laboratories, it does not mean that there are no such laboratories in Ukraine. This means that the World Health Organization can support and allocate the legal aid provided by the country only if the London laboratory confirms the availability of such flu as an independent laboratory in every country. And just as far as the labs are concerned, I think we have everything we need right now to make these diagnostics. There is another question. Is it enough in Ukraine for special express tests that can be conducted by express analysis? First, such express analysis can only take place under laboratory conditions. And secondly, both the country's experience and the world's experience say that these test tests unfortunately don't have 100% credibility of what they're establishing. And that means there's always some kind of mistake. And that's why all the countries in the world, and so did Ukraine, have adopted a different concept of response to the virus, which means that once there's a symptom, there's a surplus temperature, and there's a dry cough, and there's other side effects, the doctors are immediately taking all the necessary medical measures. It saves time, it makes it possible not to lose what's most expensive today is just the time. And so I would like, dear friends, today, as a single team, to have the opportunity to clarify and improve the tactics and strategies to combat the annual flu epidemics, and to have the opportunity in Ukraine once and for all to create an effective response system to the threat or spread of the epidemic. Today, we are making every effort to do just that. I think that, of course, the shortcomings in work and in the Ministry of Health and in public health services are the same as the shortcomings in the work of every system of government, every branch of government. I'm perfect, I'm perfect in this room, and outside this room, I just don't know, maybe you'll tell me who's perfect and perfect. But I can definitely say that from the beginning of April, the country is preparing for an epidemic and today the country is responding adequately to all these challenges. And if instead of panic and hysteria, we had good advice, good systemic approaches that we could get as such advice, including from the professional people in the Supreme Council, outside the Supreme Council, we would be very happy to take that into account. Now I'm ready to answer the questions that the National MPs have.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u19	Dear colleagues! Please sign up for a question to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, please. We've agreed with you for 20 minutes for questions and answers. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Alexander Stoyan, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u20	Dear reporter! Last night, you did a pretty good job as a squadron near the plane, and today you did a good job as an educator from the rostrum, like a nurse, but we wanted to hear from you, like the Prime Minister. We know that you work well, that's what all whiteboards say in cities and villages. You work day and night, and so it's probably not by chance, because of your work, we're taking up an honorable first place in the crisis, an honorable disgraceful place in corruption, and now, you see, we're going out first because we have the biggest disease. Please tell me, maybe you're not working in that direction. And maybe you really need to do more serious work as Prime Minister, make some recommendations. And yet, Mrs. Timoshenko, you are responsible for the fact that you've assembled 200,000 people from Western Ukraine on the Maidan, they've mixed up, infected each other with the flu, and infected the Chinese. How could you do this knowing that we might have such an epidemic? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u21	I realized that apart from the dirty political chatter with my tongue, no one is capable of anything, I'm sorry. I wanted advice.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u22	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, one minute! Please, come on, please! Let's move our conversation to a constructive river. And one announcement. At 11:30 a.m., there will be a budget committee meeting with us to decide when the discussion is concluded on the additional allocation of funds to deal with the problem. The meeting will take place on the third floor of Room 5. I would ask all members of the Committee on Budgets to be present. Now, here's a question from Valery Bondick, the faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u23	Madam Prime Minister, as the author of Decree 5293, I am giving you advice. Because you say that you need to give counsel. I've been keeping an eye on your performance. In fact, 98 million connections should not be purchased but should be made for the currency needed by the land. And as a suggestion, you have to produce where there's a labor force, that is, in non-school areas, not in schools. Dear Julia Volodymyrna, please read my determination carefully, and I am calling her off today because there is no final information, no statistics. I don't call for panic, we don't have complete objective information. You did the right thing as head of the government that went to Ternopil. But your ministers were supposed to do this: the Ministry of Health Minister, who's sitting in a white shirt -- they have to work in the field of Ternopol because there's no infectious compartment, there's no hospital, and there's no hospital. There is no separate compartment. The Ministry of Health needs to turn over the so - called field hospitals and help the health workers who work there.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u24	Yes, I can give an answer to perfectly reasonable suggestions. First. 2 million medical connections from the gauze that is purchased and in the reserves of Ukraine are sewn, as you say, on the “zones”. So it was an organized sewing two days ago. Today, the stitching of an apricot is costing from 15 copies to 35 copies depending on where it is sewn. And we are now in every area with a full list of the powers that are involved in the stitching of the gauze bonds. Mareva’s bandage can be used many times and if we are able to sew twice as many links in ten days as the population of Ukraine, we will, in practice, be provided and each person at home will need an apricot or two that he can use for quite a long time. What about travel? Dear friends, the minister, all his deputies, the chief health doctor, are constantly in the regions. Today, with respect to you, we are all gathered in Kiev in the Supreme Council from the Prime Minister to all ministers, including the First Deputy Prime Minister, because we respect the Supreme Council and are willing to cooperate in a constructive manner. It's all statistics. It goes on every day without exception. I'd say even three times a day is specified. And if that's what we need, we're willing to give statistics to MPs every day.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u25	National Deputy Bondarenko faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u26	Please pass the word to Bachelor.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u27	Aunt Bachelor. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u28	Dear Julia Vladimirovna! In April, the government allocated 50 million bracelets to fight the pandemic and seasonal influenza epidemic. We know that billions have been allocated worldwide since the WHO pandemic. We waited for this money to be used rationally. To date, only 32 million bracelets have been paid, not even the full amount. The 100 million bracelets that you have also allocated are currently spent on 0 bracelets. And today the new figure is 1 billion bracelets. Our request to our committee, the budget committee, the people's deputies that a billion bracelets be used only rationally. 500 million needs to be paid for subsidies only in the regions. Regions today need what many have been missing.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u29	First.50 million bracelets are used in full: Tamiflu products purchased, antibiotics, artificial lung ventilation devices and 37 units purchased for all regions of Ukraine. 500 million bracelets are being used today exclusively, I emphasize, for the purchase of Tamiflu, antibiotics and mask stitching, pay for work, in addition to artificial ventilation devices of lungs, bronchoscopes and other equipment needed for lung disease. So let's be very rational about every penny. And what's more, Tamiflu, 300,000 packages that were bought centrally in the immediate manufacturer of the original “Tamiflu” of the Swiss “Roscha” company, if I'm not mistaken, is called correct. Dear friends, the purchase of one package was made with 67 bracelets for the package, while the commercial and private structures carried 250 bracelets abroad. We saved 140 million of these 500 million dollars just because we had direct negotiations with the manufacturer. And what I'm saying is that this is the exact number of 67 bracelets that will motivate us to conduct a thorough investigation of that, and why was it bought by drug suppliers in Ukraine? Besides, what did manufacturers buy the substance for?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u30	People's MP Litvinov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u31	I beg you to pass it on to Jaroslav Sukh.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u32	Jaroslav Suhi, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u33	Dear Julia Volodymyr, I, you know, am a convinced opponent in social politics, especially in the field of health and hysteria around especially the difficult times that have now unfolded. So I have three short questions for you. First. Would a criminal case be violated in relation to a limited liability company called Optima, which imported Tamflu, you said 250, sold 600, and it cost 67? And maybe you don't know right now, so notice, figure out what the national deputy of Ukraine has to do with this "Optim," what did he do? And the second question. The committee, with regard to specific recommendations. The Committee of the Summer, remember, sent you a letter of specific suggestions to the Ministry of Health, and there were no consequences, just the minister’s assignment and you did not control it. And the third question. Today, children are home from kindergartens. How?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u34	Finish the question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u35	This is a specific question that concerns people. Children from kindergartens at home. Moms are with kids. How will the government compensate? Maybe some kind of scheme will be designed to at least make up for the first 2-3 weeks of the loss that parents experience because they won't work? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u36	I'll start with the last question. I think you're all well aware that the budget in the crisis survives quite a bit. And that's why the money in the budget for any compensation for having children at home now just doesn't exist physically. I think that all parents have to make sure that the children are at home today, the children are protected so that the prevention recommended by the doctor is done to the children. That's the first one. The other one. As for the owners of the pharmacy networks and the names behind them. I can tell you that if you're interested, I can name enough names from each faction in this room. And I must be separate. We now have a commission from the Tax Office, a commission from the Henprocuratorium -- a request, not a commission, a request, plus a commission from the Tax Office, and Derzcomcin, literally, to call every station and everything by name. I don't care what the names are behind every network. The Attorney General's Office is in the region's influence system, the interior ministry is part of the government, let's do everything we can to ensure that criminal cases are committed against the marauders.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u37	Alla Alexandrovska instead of National Deputy Perestenka, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u38	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Julia Vladimirovna, you're sorry, but the statistics you've addressed are highly unreliable. I'll tell you why. So you said that more than 10 million running meters of marla are in the reserve that will be used. Literally, yesterday, the Governor of Kharkiv Province of Avakov said that there are 30,000 square metres of marli in the Kharkiv region — 10 times less than what you called the figure. Second. We're known to have hospital records in district hospitals. What is being done in the villages, the village councils where hospitals have been shut down have been shut down, the network of medical institutions has been shut down, and in fact there are only FAPs that do not keep statistics uninformed. There is therefore such a specific proposal. It is necessary to organize a mass visit of doctors to large rural settlements in order to understand what is happening there. And especially those areas that are close to outbreaks and deaths. I think we need to think about the work of children's institutions. Schools are now closed and preschool facilities are closed. I think it's the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u39	Let me finish the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u40	However, we see in the streets, there are mothers on the trays, there are little children with them, of course, warm clothes, but the child is with his mother. We walk into offices, institutions, and next to Mom behind the computer, and the kid's playing because she's got a kid somewhere, and she can't stay at home, she's gonna lose her job. On the contrary, preventive measures may have been needed, organized by children's institutions, and return to your decision by the Government, which reduces the health care of schoolchildren. Do you have a solution? This is wrong not only in the context of an epidemic but in the context of preventive purposes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u41	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u42	Yeah, it's all right. First. At the request of school principals, this is not just during the epidemic, but in principle we increase the number of nurses by the number of school students and by the number of children in kindergartens. Today we have 700, 800, 900 children, one nurse, we want to make 400-500 children one nurse. And we think it's the only right approach to increase medical personnel in schools and kindergartens regardless of the epidemic, it's very important. The other one. The absolute truth is that when we quarantine children's gardens and schools, there are problems in families where children are, if they can leave them at home. But the problem here at two ends is the risk: leaving children in a single nursery and school system together can certainly lead to extremely negative consequences. And that's why what you're saying is a problem, but it's a much bigger problem for children to be in one room together, because, as the doctors say, I'm not a doctor, but the mask needs to be worn right in the room and where there's a crowd of people in the local transport. And on the street, where there's no people and there's fresh air, there's actually recommendations that you can't wear a mask. But when I use the doctor’s words, I have nothing to do with medical education. So I think that parents today, along with all levels of authority, are obliged to protect their children from being in any room where there is a large crowd of people. Now it's about villages, villages, mountain resorts. You're also right to ask the question that today we find that in 18 years there has been absolutely no program of field obstetrics and outpatients. And today there's not enough medical.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u43	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u44	sufficient medical care system. That's why we signed three contracts today that will provide quickly-gathering buildings from January to month, from which ambulances and FAPs can be made at the same time equipped with medical equipment. But it's not a tactic to fight an epidemic, it's a strategy for the future. And now every head of the district government has been given a direct directive to create as many mobile groups as it takes to cover the rural and mountain populations, and now these mobile groups with a special explanation, with special warning systems for people driving around every location. But that's not enough, we're going to be strengthening this program. You asked the right question and gave the right advice.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u45	People's Deputy Gureev. Basil Gureyev, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u46	Please give the floor to the national deputy Korjeu.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u47	National Deputy Corge, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u48	Dear Julia Vladimirovna, the outbreak has been absolutely evident to all professionals as well as the arrival of the economic crisis. And you have quite rightly addressed the subject of systemic approaches today. So, I would like to recall that more than a year ago, as we took stock of the work of the commission of inquiry on illegal immunization, we all remember this case, and in the draft decision of the Supreme Council, we wrote down two crucial paragraphs for which we unfortunately did not vote. But the Minister has sworn to fulfill them. This is: to immediately provide a bill on vaccine prevention for the population of Ukraine and a State immunization programme. We have waited six months for the law and prepared it with Deputy Suškević and have recently registered with the Supreme Council. The State programme appeared late for the year, with significant shortcomings, but a committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u49	Let me finish. Make a clearer question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u50	We supported it, and it's only just now entered into force. The 28 April resolution, which was duplicated on 30 October, was not implemented at all. The right paragraphs were written there.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u51	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u52	Can I ask you a question, yes, the answer? Clearly, I support all your suggestions. And please tell me, are you not the Korge who, as part of the government of the Party of Regions, was buying that vaccine from the redhead and the bark from which the kids were dying? Yeah? But all the suggestions we're going to take into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u53	Dear colleagues, now three minutes, and then one minute, the people's deputy Korja will have a lineup. Pavlovsky’s national deputy. Please, calm down. Pavlovsky’s national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u54	Andrew Pavlovsky. Julia Volodymyrna, thank you for responding quickly to the epidemic situation. A colleague would ask for less politics, less emotion. I give the question to Sergey Shevchuk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u55	Dear Julia Volodymyrovna, when one of the broadcasts said that the price of Tamiflu in Ukraine was $100, I was immediately contacted by our colleagues, diplomats from one of the countries of the Caucasus, and reported that there was a price of 28 euros. Today you've told us that the price of this drug is 67 dollars. This is the lowest price in the Eastern European region. But I have a broader question: the meaning of the pharmacy network. The twenty-first century is a century of global challenges: both climate and epidemic, including climate. Do you not think that more attention should be paid to the rehabilitation of public pharmacies?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u56	That's absolutely right. And today, we are developing a program for rebuilding the network of state and municipal pharmacies, which must be the opposite, firstly, sometimes the free work of some -- I don't say all -- some drug networks, and secondly, crime, when in times of stress, instead of doing a government function, raises three times the price of drugs. And that's why we set this up today as a strategic task for the state: to re-establish a network of state and municipal drug pharmacies. The list of such drugs has been determined and we will do so without delay. That's exactly what you're asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u57	National MP Gordienko - instead of Berestenko, a faction of Communists, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u58	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. Dear Julia Volodymyrna, today's autumn-winter period and quite chilly on the street. The warmth of the room is the best prevention of influenza. The faction of the Ukrainian Company therefore offers the government, along with executive authorities and local self-government, to include all housing and sociocultural facilities immediately during the time period. We're going to do a great service in the prevention of influenza, that's what's important. And the second question is, you know, there's a lot of population in Ukraine that's built underwater pipelines with a hundred percent readiness. They are not included simply because the government did not qualify for subsidies for these pipelines. The Poltava region and the Grebinkovsky region are the villages of Korovai and Kulasinz, so please give the commission to be calculated and people will be warm and it will be prevention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u59	Well, first of all, we're going to take the names of the population points from the transcript and check that there's a problem with not connecting the pipelines. I think we're literally doing this today, tomorrow. If there is that problem you're talking about, we'll definitely get the results there. Now in terms of heating all over the country, well, above all, seven billion dollars today is the total debt for gas from all consumers, including to a greater extent the thermal utility. Seven billion, in comparison to this month's 6th number, Ukraine has to pay Gazprom 4 billion dollars. That is to say, for 2 months, this is what has to be taught to the government and NAK Naftogazu, without the provision of remuneration from private Obelisks and utilities. However, regardless of this, we will check that every house, every hospital, every budget facility is necessarily included. I think it's already a game of private fraud because they're blowing up money for themselves. And the fact that we have private and without limits and rules has been working since time immemorial is obvious to all. Today, by the way, I want to inform the whole country that we have developed a return strategy from rent, the deadline for gas networks, the return to state ownership and the transfer of Naftogazu NAK. I think that as lies work, it's just a crime against Ukraine: first, they don't pay, and secondly, they abuse the population of Ukraine by beating up money. That's why we have a strategy for this.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u60	Thank you. Julia Volodymyrna, they still need to be added to these, and then we'll put order in the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u61	I don't deny it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u62	Alexander Lavrinovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u63	Dear Julia Volodymyrna! We received your signature today from the legislative initiative of the Cabinet of Ministers to transfer 1 billion dollars from the special fund to a total of Euro funds for the Cabinet of Ministers reserve fund. Since these funds are supposed to be used to combat the epidemic, do you not think that it would be more appropriate to anticipate this amount of money to the head of the Ukrainian Ministry of Health by not studying how funds from the contingency fund are used purposefully, as we unfortunately do with the stability fund and the reserve fund? Obviously, an epidemic needs quick and professional solutions. If it's directly in the principal of the programs, it seems that it can be more effective. What do you think?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u64	And first of all, I want to go to all the people's deputies right now, and we want to go to the law that we passed with you, that the excess of revenue over the National Bank's expenditures in the amount that today corresponds to the actual compounded income of the National Bank, we're going to count to Euro alone, that 9.7 billion dollars was there, and considering that given the President's veto, it's going to be virtually impossible to absorb all that money by the end of the year. One billion dollars of this money will be transferred to combat the flu epidemic. I'd like to make that decision. And if the Supreme Council believes that it is necessary to make the Ministry of Health an orderly, the government will not deny it. But don't realize that we have a piece of equipment purchased in the domestic industry on the line of the Ministry of Industry. Part of the technology is purchased by the Ministry of Emergency Situations, since there is also a need for fast - unfolding laboratories, resuscitations, and mobile laboratories. That's what we really need to do. If you figure out what it's going to be on the MlH, it's going to be on the MlH. The important thing in the Supreme Council is to make it clear that this billion is needed for the four front lines. These are drugs that include two groups, these are medical equipment, these are the preparation of extra open beds, and that's all that's needed for the Ministry of Emergency Situations. I'd like to allocate that money. They're all under control. Because, on the one hand, there's the Attorney General's Office, on the other hand, there's the Court of Auditors. You can't suspect that these are part of government, they're worthy of control. So I think we can control and react objectively and quickly. I ask you very much to vote on this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u65	Julius Volodymyrically, thank you. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, a report and answers to the Prime Minister's questions have been made. We had two names called National Deputies, the People's Deputy of Hubsky and the People's Deputy of Korja. Dear colleagues, I'd like to tell you, two names were called. This is not to be said only by those to whom it applies. Please, Bogdan Hubsky insisted, and so did the national deputy Korz. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u66	My last name here was a deputy, and I'm not going to call his last name so I don't give him the right to repeat. The only thing I can say is that there's an open lie about my attachment to any pharmacy or medicine supply. But it is not the first time that this national MP has been lied to, either by his words or by strangers. And if I were to say essentially, I think it would be necessary here not to take advantage of the political capitals on that mountain that there is today, and I think, if we're talking about pharmacies, it would be relevant to make either a state commission, or a Supreme Council, to check how utilities or state pharmacies were privatized. We had utility networks, we had government networks, we had most of these networks privatized today, and I'm not excluding that with breaking the law. So it seems to me that this initiative is to see who bought state pharmacies, particularly in district centers, who bought utility pharmacies and passed it on to law enforcement agencies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u67	Thank you. National Deputy Corge, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u68	Dear Julia Vladimirovna, I have asked you a professional question and hoped for a professional answer. I regret the failure to comply with your order since April of this year, but today we have no vaccine and no laboratories. With regard to the ruling that I had made as a member of the Government, it was absolutely correct. And today it is obvious to all that vaccination from measles and rubella is necessary, only a legitimate vaccine registered, not one that has been smuggled into the country, which has led to complications, and death, is a crime. More than 80 per cent of these 9 million were immune. And today, as a policy, I would like to ask you a political question, but it is not clear that these hundreds of thousands of people who were in Maidan are at very high risk and that we are likely to have such sad and tragic consequences today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u69	Dear colleagues, I now invite the head of the committee, the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s National Health Committee, to address Tetjana Dmitrovna Bahtyev. Ten minutes, Aunt Dmitry. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u70	Dearly respected colleagues, Vladimir Mihajlovich, there is a very complex, threatening situation in Ukraine today in connection with the seasonal influenza epidemic, the A and B viruses, and the pandemic A/N1N1 influenza. To date, more than 260,000 people are already ill; today, 262 are in extremely difficult condition in the emergency wards; 71 Ukrainians have died, including three children, including three pregnant women, including four health workers. The largest number of patients is found in Western areas: almost 90,000 in Lvivsk, 36,000 in Ivano-Frankov region, 30,000 in Ternopolsky and more than 20,000 in Chernivsky and Volyn areas. More than 11,000 patients have already been registered in Kiev, more than 6.5,000 patients are in Kiev, and the capacity of the infective wards of treatment facilities is catastrophically inadequate to hospitalize all patients. Medical facilities are not equipped with special equipment for artificial ventilation of light, and existing domestic production facilities are not fully functional. Today, in nine areas, quarantine is announced. Higher and secondary education has been discontinued, schools and children have been closed down, and mass events have been restricted to 3 weeks throughout the country. There are no test systems for the diagnosis of pandemic influenza in the regions today. There are not even systems for differential diagnosis between influenza A and B. This today does not allow us to assess the actual state of the epidemic and predict a further level of threat. Although we have only 14 cases of H1N1 influenza confirmed laboratoryly, this is more evidence of a practical absence of adequate influenza diagnosis and, in the context of the epidemic, this is definitely unacceptable. The figures I have given are only increasing at the same time, and so far, we, the people's deputies, are being brought to our committee for instructions today to hide the facts of both the morbidity and the death of our compatriots. One of the causes of the epidemic’s outbreak and subsequent development was, of course, the incompetence and incompetence of the executive authorities, particularly health institutions, to the timely rapid implementation of a set of epidemics and preventive treatments related to the epidemic and the pandemic of influenza. However, I would like to point out that in the face of such threats and possible epidemic complications, the Government has been informed in advance and our committee, which includes the people's deputies of all five factions, has sent three letters to the Prime Minister that it is imperative to pay attention to this situation, that it is necessary to prepare activities that will be very important, not just to set up a desk branch. We are now reaping the fruits of this irresponsible attitude of government officials towards the health of the nation. In many countries of the world, public authorities have recently developed national programmes to protect the population from possible contamination and complications of infection, following the announcement by the World Health Organization of an emergency in the field of health, which is now of international importance, the flu pandemic. Such activities have not yet been prepared in our country. For the past year, our committee has raised the issue that it is necessary in Ukraine not only to create a paper, but that the Influenza Centre should work virtually. We and the people's deputies, who are part of the BIT faction, visited on a number of occasions and saw that the walls were simply not ready to start working there. Today, the Influenza Centre is in a state of major repair, and there is no proper equipment at all. Who needed a theatre show on TV when the plane was supposed to be working today. Today's situation in Ukraine has clearly shown what leads to non-professional action by the authorities, neglect by councils and the prevention of professionals. 71 Death is the price of today's non-professional power in the medical industry. We have to do everything we can today to keep the numbers from growing. Dear colleagues, it is only possible to overcome the misery together. Yesterday, at the Conciliation Council in the Supreme Council, the leader of the Party of the Regions, Viktor Fedorovic Janukovic, noted the need to depoliticize the problem of overcoming the scourge. Stop talking and start working right away. I am convinced that only this approach is shared by the people of Ukraine today. The issue of availability of medicines is also urgently needed. The fact that Tamiflu is not alone today, which even is a sponsoring aid can only guarantee for a few days the need that we have today. We are also talking today about antibiotics that are simply not available today. Monitoring of these drugs is also needed. And you don't have to be so angry about that today. The fact that Optima is the only distributor in our country today for Tamiflu, the only company that can make a prize today is not only 600 bracelets, but all 100 dollars that our people are already saying today. And that price can only be controlled by a distributor. Because pharmacies can make a price of not more than 30 percent. And today we're threatening to shut down ourselves, which is not a small-business plant. Today, pharmacies are closed because they are strangled by law enforcement agencies. Because they are not able to control prices today, it is entirely not up to them. If this situation continues, we will lose people. There's only land left or maybe someone's counting on it, someone really needs it! While the Government continues to delay the increase in pensions and minimum wages, there is a need for strict State control over the prices of pharmacies. People shouldn't be in silk today like they're in debt. It is no longer known what property is, and they are willing to lay down their own money just to take and buy today’s drugs. And in prison. Today, when the influenza problem has become a national issue, I would like to refer to officials who will be involved in the financing of influenza extension activities. Yes, 50 million have been allocated, but as of April, to date, not all have been allocated, so far the regions have not even the Tamiflu, which have been purchased in the amount of 50 million, have no laboratories, have no test systems, have no artificial light ventilation devices. Today it's either on the road or in warehouses. And what I want to say is that today we must have our control of the people's deputies for the purpose of using every penny and this billion bracelet that we will clearly vote for it, because all the countries elect, all the countries are prepared today, we do not know what the situation will be in December and what will be even in February and in March. Therefore, a billion grevens, today with Deputy Pecklusenko, we have prepared a decree that 500 million should be paid only on subsidies to the regions, regions know specifically that they should buy 500 million to not be on the special fund, but to give to the Ministry of Health, which will also use only these assigned funds. Dear colleagues, today's trouble, which has already entered 71 families, demands that we finally put an end to the strains and common sense of overcoming it. This trouble does not pay attention to who lives in Lviv today, who lives in Donetsk, who is in Nikolaev, who is in Kiev, who is asking about the survival of the nation, to end today's terrible death account. And on this path, we need our common desire to overcome the virus and make a medical industry for people, not people for the industry. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u71	Thank you, Aunt Dmitry. Have a seat, please. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I now invite you to the Minister's address on the housing and utility business of Alexia Kucherenk. Please, in 10 minutes. After that, Vladimir Vasilovich Rybak, head of the profile committee. In five minutes. Dear colleagues! May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u72	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! I want to say that entering the heating season was preceded by preparations for a heating season that, as always, businesses and industries start in the spring. And I want to thank all the industry’s employees, the leaders, who, for the most part, have been very conscientious about their responsibilities and have prepared no worse than they have been in previous years, despite sufficiently difficult budgetary conditions. What about today’s situation? So to this day, virtually, the heating season has begun in all the locations. I would like to remind you that the integration of residential and social facilities is carried out according to established local government of graphs and TKE-based limits of gas. To date, 92 percent of the total number of breeders are employed for the morning. Plugged in 92 percent of housing units. 94 percent of preschools. 90 percent of schools. 98 percent of hospitals, and I can assure you that this figure is approaching 100 percent by tonight. Of course, in connection with the epidemic, we pay special attention to the incineration of hospitals and housing funds. What is the main problem? Unfortunately, not all businesses in the sector have made a gas supply agreement today with the state company “Gaz Ukraine”. I want to say that the government has done everything possible and approved a new standard agreement that is more fair and objective for enterprises, but the main problem is debt. We've analyzed almost all the heat companies that provide heat. I can tell you today and give you just examples of how some businesses try to solve their problems at the expense of the whole other country. What troubled cities today? This is the Dnipropetrovsk region - Dniprodrzeńsk, Wilnogorsk, Marganese, Yellow Waters, Orgenykidze, Nicopol. The Donetsk region is Artemusk, Makiyivka. The Zaporozhye area is Berdjansk, Tokmak, Melitopol, Zaporozhye. Lugansk Region - Lisichansk, Sevierodontsk, Stahanov The city of Odessa. The city of Uzhgrad. I would like to point out once again that all these companies have been ordered by the government since 15 November of this year to decide on the allocation of limits. Gas is in all these cities. And notice the amount of debt. The city of Krivi Rig, the “Blood Warming” – 200 million. Donetsk, the "Miscétépleurage" is 163 million. Donetsk, “Heatcommunergo”, a district company of 200 million. The money is 168 million. The Odessa utility company is 103 million. I mean, at this point, there's a problem that people can't pay, but there's a lot more problems. And you have to understand, while these cities do not make a decision about objective pay, fair pay, all government does everything to supply gas. In order to monitor the heating season of each meeting, practically the government is dealt with with problematic issues. An interpersonal working group was created for the heating season. Departmental coordination is ongoing. To this end, we've created an operating headquarters, a hot line for response, emergency control by the State Housing and Communications Inspectorate, and a daily monitoring of the heating season. What are the main problems that today prevent businesses from counting? We've done a thorough analysis, they're well-known, and unfortunately, they've accumulated over the last 18 years. The first is the difference in tariffs. Failure to meet the requirements of article 31 of the Ukrainian Housing and Utilities Act when tariffs are adopted below cost, but the corresponding level budget does not provide for a proper coverage of this problem. I would like to point out that the state of affairs today, at the expense of the State Budget, is supplied to companies with a very low, much lower price than the real purchase price in the Russian Federation. What I'm trying to say is that the government guaranteed the thermal power companies the price of going through the whole heating season. But failure to do so in this 31 article is a huge problem for all of us, believe me. And today it concerns regions in all parts of Ukraine. The other one. This is the level of pay of the population. I would like to thank all the citizens of Ukraine who, knowing what a difficult situation is today, are trying to do everything for their pay at the right time. The average pay rate is 96-98 percent. And I'm just calling on the population once again, regardless of all the calls, the populist slogans to do and do their civic duty, to pay for housing and utilities at the same time. There are also problems with the procedure for the approval and acceptance of tariffs as a regulatory act. Unfortunately, two weeks ago, the Supreme Council did not support a bill supported by the Ukrainian City Association and the government regarding the simplification of the procedure. There is also a problem with debt restructuring. The Prime Minister has already cited these figures and I want to say that this year the government has taken unprecedented steps, as I am, to meet the heat utility companies. First of all, all the needed natural gas is attached to natural habitats. So to speak, all you have to do is pay and get it. Secondly, all debts of thermalcommunergo companies to the NAC “Naftogaz Ukraine” have been restructured as much as possible. To that end, all the relevant decisions and all the issues that have been raised today have been taken in parentheses, all the enterprises have decided to issue tariffs, and the allocation of limits. Debts don't interfere. But the debts remain. And to do that, we need to find a systemic solution. I cannot help but say that much of the problem can only be solved at the level of adoption of a new legislative framework. Let's recognize our common problem that we have very centralized, decentralized, sorry, governance and in fact today we can talk about the unbiased sector on the side of the center. I would like to point out that this is about a whole series of drafts, some of them are in the Supreme Council, part of it on the way to the Supreme Council. And that's why I urge you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, and you personally, and all the MPs in the near future to find the opportunity to devote one or two special sessions of the Supreme Council to the adoption of urgent, urgent bills that I can now list -- a bill on the energy efficiency of buildings, that's also a bill amending the Heat Supply Act, that's a bill on increasing responsibility in the area of housing and utilities, that's a new Housing Code, that's a new edition of the BSB Law, that's a whole set of laws that I have about half a dozen. Only their complex, simultaneous acceptance will allow us to restore the leadership of this field and make the relationship system really transparent and adequate. I believe that in this situation, it is our duty with you to depoliticize as much as possible the process of enacting legislation in the area of housing and utilities and to do everything, and to carry out your debt to the state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u73	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this is Vladimir Vasilovich Ribak, head of the profile committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u74	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished people's deputies present! Of course, the problem of keeping people warm has a direct bearing on overcoming the epidemic, the misery that is now in Ukraine. We have heard the Minister's report, and we remember the Government's assurance that for the first time in 18 years housing and utilities has been prepared by 100 per cent, that everything is in order today. [[Turn on the TV at night]] However, the actual picture in the regions is quite different. I think the people who are looking at us here today are thinking about which country they're not talking about, because there are a lot of people in Ukraine sitting without heat today. Here are data from the State Inspectorate of Housing and Communal Affairs, which is under the authority of the Government. This is the latest, this is Sunday-Monday: the coaches in Ukraine are not included, they haven't even tried another 3,000 281 boilerhouses, housing, housing -- 23,000 304 houses are not warm today, 5 million people are now listening to us in cold apartments, and they're thinking about what kind of heat they're talking about in Ukraine? With regard to schools and kindergartens. 4,000 300 kindergartens and schools were not included in Ukraine, and there was no heat — this is the data of the Government's housing commission. As far as hospitals are concerned. We say we need to treat people in heat. 364 hospitals and clinics were not included today and were not included. All right, well, what they say is that the grief helped out there-- the kids were sent from kindergartens, from school home? They sent us to cold apartments. And since the cold apartments have been cited here, they go with their mothers there, to the market, and somehow, and the snow is already going around a number of territories. Therefore, my friends, we have no right in this situation, which is to deceive people, but today the Ministry needs to go to places and provide practical assistance. What are the reasons? I'm just a few reasons: the incompetence of boilers, heat grids. 500 million were budgeted by the Government. Not a penny is allocated for the repair of boilers, heat plants. The budget is foreseen! 100,000, I found a bracelet that's all set. Second. In most cases, there are no limits to greenhouse gas to date. There are almost all areas here. I don't call small towns. Who today must decide in the country to have limits in the regions, who? Here, I say, you can list all the areas. They're talking about debts today. It is not necessary on television to urge the Minister and members of the Government not to pay for housing and utility services. For it was in the city of Kiev and others. Instead of setting tariffs, call people, "Don't pay!" I don't invent anything. Let's move on. It's supposed to be a warm day. Tell me, people who don't get paid, 200 million owe them their wages, they're gonna let go of the heat or they're gonna work? They won't work. I therefore believe that the policies of the Ministry of Housing and Communimunal Affairs and Government should be aimed at saving the industry. The lack of funding is causing it to deteriorate and the situation is exacerbated. And I think our people, our people, don't deserve to live.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u75	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u76	Conclusions, first and foremost to the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u77	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I invite you to speak to the deputy head of the Jaremenka Chamber of Commerce, Alexander Stepanović. Please, Alexander Stepanovich. You have five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u78	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The Court of Auditors examines at least two ways of using the public budget funds allocated to the Ministry of Health in the field of medicine each year. I have to say that today’s situation is unfortunately the result of a longtime disgruntled organization of work in this area. In recent years, the Ministry has failed to comply with the Ukrainian President's decrees and approved by government decrees: the Intersectoral Integrated Programme “National Health” and the National Health System Development Plan. Against this background, the Ministry has created an opaque and inefficient system of centralized purchases, both for medicines and medical equipment, which does not take into account the reality of disease trends and the need for adequate material values of medical facilities. Now, about the ministry's efforts to overcome the challenges of today's situation. Today, there has been talk of an order that was taken in time by the Cabinet of Ministers regarding the prevention and occurrence of influenza among the population, and a number of measures have been taken to overcome it. In accordance with the government’s orders to take priority measures to prevent the introduction and spread of the flu in Ukraine, the Ministry of Health has removed 50 million dollars from the government’s reserve budget. According to the operational information of the Ukrvakcina company, which, on behalf of the Ministry, is making central purchases, the state of health and medical supplies of 14.7 million dollars has in fact been made available by October 30th of the year, and has been placed in regions for 3.6 million dollars. There were 11.1 million dollars left at the company's warehouses, of which 9.2 million are the most needed medicines for Tamflu – more than 44,000 packages. According to the Operational Data of the Ukrvakcina Company, at the expense of the reserve background by the Ministry, it was also purchased for virusological laboratories, sanepidemic services and the Ukrainian Influenza Centre and acute respiratory infections at a total of 15.3 million dollars, from which, as of 30 October of this year, the Ministry distributed the distribution and delivery of 11.2 million dollars to the regions, and equipment for 4.1 million dollars remained in warehouses. In general, according to the Ministry of Health and its subordinated purchasing company, the 30 October state of supply of medical supplies, equipment, and medical supplies is set at 30 million dollars or 60 percent of the total amount of funds allocated from the contingency fund. The region has a material value of 14.8 million dollars or only 49 percent of the purchases. Thus, the government has not been ordered to provide virusological laboratories, supported bases of the Ukrainian Influenza Centre, and state medical laboratories. veterinary medicine that conducts virological and syrological monitoring of appropriate equipment, diagnostics, raw materials, etc., and does not have systems to monitor compliance with the anti-epidemic regime when working with biological materials. Nor has the Ministry and the Academy of Medical Sciences and other tasks envisaged by the government been approved by an antiviral access strategy. The clinical protocol for diagnosis and treatment of new influenzaH1N1 is approved only for children and is not approved for adults. Dear National Deputies! To date, I've only provided you with operational information on this issue. In order to carry out a more detailed analysis, the Court of Auditors needs time to carry out the tests. After that, we are ready to prepare detailed comprehensive information and to inform you about it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u79	Thank you, sit down, please. Dear colleagues, there's a 30-minute recess. The first after the break will be the Academy of Commissioners.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, please take up your jobs. Commissioner Sergey Vasilovich is invited to attend. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u81	I'll introduce myself. Academic Commissioner Sergey Vasilovich. An academic, secretary of the Department of Biochemistry, Physiology and Molecular Biology of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, and head of the Commission of Biosafety and Biosazist at the Council of National Security and Defence. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! Honourable deputies and present! To defeat the enemy, especially the most dangerous one, we need to know his nature well. Let us describe very briefly our common enemy – A/H1N1 virus or what it is called “pig” and how to fight it. [[California]] From a biological point of view, this virus is a common flu virus very similar to the seasonal flu we encounter every year. What's great is that this virus is a new virus that has never happened before, and that's why none of the people have immunity from it, and that's why the vaccines that existed before are ineffective in fighting this virus. The unique thing about this virus is that according to genetic analysis, it was obviously formed in a pig body in Mexico by recombinant nucleic acids of pigs, humans, and birds. The director - general of WHO announced the flu pandemic on June 11th of this year. More than 400,000 laboratory confirmed cases of disease and about 5,000 deaths from this flu have now been reported in the world. Air traffic accounts for about 1.2 percent depending on the country, is clear from the ways in which the flu was treated and how it was diagnosed early. Two thousand and 80 people died in Europe. This autumn, there's a new wave of A/H1N1 flu rising around the world. This virus is transmitted in a drop-and-air way, as well as in dirty hands, if you rub your eyes, nose and mouth, or the way you get the virus. The virus is relatively unstable, and in the environment, it dies in a matter of hours. Illness. This flu is usually very easy to treat. And patients have returned to normal health within 7 days without any treatment. Patients are contagious, that is, contagious, daily, and within 7 days of the onset of influenza. [[1 day before and 7 days after]] Symptoms of the onset of the disease are very similar to common flus, but often it runs, it's a specialty, without a high temperature. There are times when the disease is getting worse. Usually, this is a severe form of hemorrhagic pneumonia when hospitalization is needed and urgent treatment is needed. Drug therapy should be conducted with medicines that are sensitive to the virus. What's typical of this virus is that people under the age of 25 and 30 tend to get sick, young and healthy. This, by the way, is also typical of the Spanish virus, which killed about 50 million people in 18-20 years, which was also A/H1N1. Young people under the age of 25 to 30 make up more than half of the hospitalized and a quarter of the dead. By the way, these cases are scientifically incomprehensible and are now being carefully studied. Treatment. The treatment of pneumonia and the complications caused by this virus is carried out by antiviral drugs. If their official names are "Zanamvir" and "Oseltameur", but we are used to "Tamiflu", "Rellenza". Antivirals significantly improve disease progression and significantly reduce lethargy if given in time. But these drugs are available only on medical prescriptions and are taken almost exclusively in hospitals. There are, in fact, mutations of the virus that make the virus insensitive to these drugs, but fortunately, such mutant viruses are not transmitted from person to person. Based on world experience, three groups of the highest-risk groups are women on the third trimester of pregnancy, among other things, the mortality and mortality rate of these women are about ten times higher than in general; they are children under 2-3 years of age and persons with chronic lung disease and, of course, persons with weakened immunity. Prevention. The World Health Organization does not recommend that prevention be carried out with antiviral drugs. It's very important. Prevention is carried out by a vaccine that is specific to the A/N1N1 virus. Since this virus is new, regular vaccines are ineffective, but already in July-August this year, effective vaccines have appeared in several countries, which are now standardized, some of them, and have passed clinical trials. The licensed vaccines are already in the United States, in France, Switzerland, Great Britain, Italy, Australia, Japan and China, and the Russian vaccine will probably pass, but they're two or three months late, compared to other countries. Vaccines usually differ in quality. The United States, France, Britain, Switzerland, Norway, Italy, Australia, stated that they were willing to give the vaccine free to those developing countries or countries that did not have their own vaccine production. But the distribution of these vaccines occurs exclusively through the World Health Organization, which coordinates the process. Let me actually say some conclusions. The disease we're seeing right now in Western Ukraine and there are cases where they're spreading is very similar clinically to the one that's caused by the A/N1N1 virus that's being described all over the world. This is evidenced by the young age of most patients, unlike seasonal flu, high mortality from hemorrhological pneumonia, and genetic analysis of virus samples in the dead and in the sick. You've heard these figures, unfortunately, Ukraine's ability to do this isn't very great. Now we need to do a differential diagnosis immediately to determine what viruses cause the regular seasonal flu, which viruses cause A/N1N1, and which are due to aspirational diseases. Clearly, genetic analysis is needed to do so. Unfortunately, in Ukraine it will not yet be seen, only in the two specialized centers that you have heard of. [[And this is supposed to be done in the district EES.]] So I want to tell you that.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u82	Let me finish. Please continue, I'm asking you to calm down, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u83	May I? It's off the hook. So the only way to fight this disease effectively is, of course, to prevent it with a vaccine. But we need to figure out, first of all, is this the virus that these vaccines are going to be directed against? And what vaccines should be introduced in Ukraine? It makes sense if we get the right humanitarian aid, use licensed, exclusively vaccines. However, to avoid long clinical trials, it may be possible to do so without proper clinics. The primary vaccination is for medical personnel, and you already know that we have cases where four medical workers were killed. I want to. Here it is worth recalling that in 2005, an implementation agreement was signed between the U.S. Department of Defence and the Ukrainian Ministry of Health, with which the United States allocated more than $220 million to raise the level of all our district sanepides and to build the central reference laboratory that was to be built. Unfortunately, our department of sanitation in four years has been unable to find an area for this reference centre, and now the Americans are thinking about leaving us. We also need a modern Influenza Center, what do we not have? We need to have the National Centre of Biotechnology, which was written in the decision of the PNB. It was recorded at the National Academy of Sciences, but of course we didn't get the money, because that's where modern vaccines and medications should be developed. And we need to be sure that there is a need for sanitation, such as plans. All I have before me is the introduction to the plan signed by President Bush to fight the avian flu. It tells us what the President, the Senate, the Congress, should do, what all governors, churches, schools, universities, and every family should do, if any. Similar plans to combat various infectious diseases aimed at a particular infection should be common in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u84	Thank you, too, Sergey Vasilovich! [[Applause]] Dear colleagues! Thank you. Dear colleagues, if you'd like to sign up, we've agreed that 30 minutes to discuss the matter. Since the factions have already performed, all the factions have demonstrated their position, let's just register with the national MPs right now. Is there no objection? It's a recording. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Mikola Kravchenko, a Communist faction, then Catherine Lukyanov will perform.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u85	Cowchenko, the Communist faction. Of course, today's events, hearing questions are more like liquefied than a serious public approach to addressing Ukraine's gravest problem. But what we can get out of this summary is that, finally, because of human misery, we realize that we have destroyed the government structure. We've lost control not only in the medical industry, we've lost control of everything. With regard to the fact that the electoral company, which is at large today, is, first of all, agreeing that the market is competition, but also that the State must restore the functions of the State today and through regulation through intervention in these processes solve the problem. And so we're going to have the same situation over and over again. Today, look, it's just the flu that started or the respiratory infection, the FAPs we're already building up to portable homes, the labs are supposed to be in condition, although, of course, they're not working in the areas. Why, I wonder why the Ministry didn't do it, health, that's earlier. In terms of the problem raised by colleague Gordienko in the heat, to date it has contributed and contributed significantly to the spread of respiratory and influenza diseases, it is that we do not have heat. The Prime Minister brought in debts, as one of the reasons, 7 billion. I'd like to ask the minister who's here, what's his figure? I bring it to your attention that in the Donetsk region in 53 cities, tariffs have been increased illegally. Today, people win these courts with our help, and the money, gentlemen, will not be the ones you expect. That's not how people get money. We do not pay, we do not create new jobs, and we increase, increase and increase the burden on non-existent wages, including even on the drugs that must save us today. I would ask Mr. Kucherenko, as Minister, to understand how Donecktepleenergo sets the tariffs and how.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u86	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u87	How is the city of Kirovsky Donetsk today practically becoming the second Alchevsk? No heat, no gas turned off. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it is important to consider how a State should influence and intervene in this situation. So we have to look for money in the budget to cover these expenses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u88	Katerina Lukyanova, faction of "Our Ukraine People's Self-Defense". Next will be Pavlovsky, the BUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u89	Dear colleagues! Dear members of the government! I am well aware that 450 national advocates have gathered 450 experts in the fight against A/H1N1 virus, so-called Californian or "pig". Each of us knows how to diagnose the disease very clearly and how much more intense it is to identify the cause of the epidemic. But I don't want to find the culprits and go into the pitfalls that have always taken us by surprise, and I want to draw your attention to those issues that don't need additional government spending, but require just ordinary executive discipline and responsibility. [[on the drug supply of farm and obstetric points in the village]] The State Budget Act provides for rural councils to purchase medical supplies for the FAPs at a monthly cost of 50 copies per inhabitant. It's not usually the kind of money that gave us reason to talk about the full security of the field and obstetric points, but they're also responsible for government spending with grief in half allowing the village to provide the most necessary. So I have a simple question. Why is there no medicine needed in most villages, even in paid pharmacies, not to mention the availability of drugs in FAPach? I'm assuming two reasons: either there's not all of the funds out of the government budget, but there's only a tiny fraction of them, or there's more where the funds are being allocated, but they're depending on the accounts of the reefs. What do I see as a way out of this situation? We must make a decision that would oblige the financial authorities to direct the money immediately to the article “Medicamental provision of rural councils” for their direct purpose. In doing so, we need to make sure that the funds are actually directed to the pharmaceutical supply of the field office and obstetric points, not to some questionable expense. Because I've already received information from some Western regions that, according to the decision of the district councils, rural heads have already been given drugs for 16-20 thousand dollars, so 50 copies per year came in, very rural heads, because we've long known how the decisions of the village councils are being run by a tail. Yet, in the field obstetric centres of the same population, the supply of drugs remains at zero. How could this happen? I have one answer. Rural heads are always not far away interested in using all 100 percent of the cost of medical supplies. After all, they may then be able to find unused funds and write down the year’s bonus to pay the salary. This is especially true of rural heads today when they ended up with annual wage funds in September. Another example of abuse. These are fictitious pharmacies, or purchases in the form of pharmaceutical supplies for FAPs that are completely unnecessary. Again, the main reason is that rural and rural heads are able to buy drugs for their own reasons, not only in months that have passed, but also in December, November this year. So I'm asking all of us national MPs to come up with a legislative decision that would allow, in the current conditions of the epidemic, at least late, but actually provide the FAPs in the country with the most necessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u90	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u91	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u92	You can if you're not finished.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u93	Okay. It is essential to provide the village’s farm and midwiferies with masks, antibiotics, vitamins, and so forth. We have to share responsibility for anti-epidemic measures in the countryside, where medicine and Soviet times were not in the best condition, and since the late 1980s, they've completely forgotten about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u94	Pavlovski People's Deputy, faction of the “Blanket of Yulia Timoshenko”. Please. Yes, who will perform? Please, National Deputy Shevchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u95	The Honorable Head of the Supreme Council! Dear colleagues! In our discussion, the topic was that it was a political epidemic, that it was a panic, that it was polytechnics. Can we, as healthy people, think about it, or can we ask the sick, or the family members, of those who are currently in a state of resuscitation? Perhaps we should not ask the family members of those who have died. Of course, we have a serious challenge and must answer it. Today, in the Prime Minister's report, we have heard of a complex of urgent operational measures. It's gonna be an hour. The epidemic will end. An analysis will be made, both within Ukraine and by WHO experts, by international medical circles, to the extent that this package of measures has been effective. But it can certainly be said that this experience of Ukraine is unique, that government action is timely, urgent. And later, it can be a pattern if epidemics occur in Eastern Europe or elsewhere in the continent. But, dear colleagues, I will allow myself to stop at another moment, in the health of my own medical staff. You know, the ancient Greeks used to say, "Fear the doctor who is sick himself." In an epidemic situation, this aphorism is particularly relevant. Today, medical workers are sick, and today they die. Regrettably, there is no proper return on the part of the State for assessing their self - sacrificing work. Today, there is the head of today’s Ministry of Health and the former Minister of Health, a former state health doctor, an outstanding Ukrainian scientist. And they remember when the cholera epidemic in Ukraine was in distant Soviet times, as they responded to that challenge. And then the doctors courageously and loyally went into the epidemiology and worked and overcame the epidemic. But at the time, they were paid a few times as much for the job as they were for the normal period. And it seems to me that today’s management of the Ministry of Health, apart from the cost of medicine, medical equipment, and many other things, needs to be considered first of all, whether it’s a doctor or a nurse today or a feldsher who should also be fully fed, must have the necessary combination of natural vitamins in order not to get sick on his own. So I think we, the Supreme Council, need to make a decision, which is a project, which is designed to provide for the corresponding increase in the indexation of the wages of those who work in epidemics, as well as to consider life insurance and medical health at the expense of the employer at the time of epidemic danger. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u96	National Deputy Karpuk, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Then there will be Anna Mikolayevna Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u97	Vladimir Karpuk, MP “For Ukraine!”, “Our Ukraine”. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the great members of the government! First of all, deep sympathy goes to the families of those who have lost loved ones during the epidemic and the desire for health to all who are sick and, above all, to all the people of Ukraine. If we conclude from what we have heard, we can unquestionably conclude that the state as a whole has not been prepared for such an extraordinary situation, as though we were not convincing people. But as evidenced by the lack of resources as drugs, as there were no means to prevent the spread of this disease and seasonal flu and pandemic flu, we found ourselves unprepared until the first days of the outbreak of this disease. Unfortunately, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, at some point in this rostrum, I repeat that we are talking about health care, we are only talking about medicine in the presence of force majeure when there is trouble. There are a number of bills submitted both by the Ministry of Health and by MPs, especially regarding health insurance, which are not considered for a long time. Therefore, perhaps after today’s consideration, we will realize that health care is a matter of national security and needs that attitude accordingly. Unfortunately, we did not avoid politics and witnessing today -- noise in the hall and the absence of many deputies who have already come to light and do not contribute to the consideration of this issue. What needs to be done. We need to keep the medics from working. It's not for the Prime Minister to treat people on the TV screen, but it's for the experts to do it. There should be clear recommendations for vaccination. Because we put our hands together to kill people for their belief in vaccination. Clear recommendations should be made as to whether vaccination should be given against seasonal influenza, in which contingents or further vaccination calendars should be maintained. This was about protecting health workers, and I fully support them. And we need to consider, at the legislative level, deciding that this would be, like, an accident in production, an appropriate compensation. It's a very important question that pregnant women don't work in the third semester. At the legislative level, we need to make an organizational decision not to let these women join in. There should be no wish to report that we have dealt with the epidemic because there is already such an effort. And every politician has to understand that I'm not buying votes for "Amisone" and "Tamiflu".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u98	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u99	That's what I'm talking about. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u100	Herman Hanna Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u101	A colleague asked a very reasonable question: “Why haven’t we heard a meaningful report from professionals in this room today?” And obviously we would have had a lot of questions before, not just us, but obviously the people who listened to us. But these people weren't allowed to come out of this rostrum, but Julia Volodymyrna came out, who has all the drugs from all the troubles, and these drugs are noodles to the ears of the Ukrainian people, which she always hangs in all the cases. [[Applause]] We're not ready for the crisis, we're not ready for the epidemic, we're not ready for the winter, we're not ready for anything. And it comes out of all the trouble and it gives people the same medication all the time. She's lying, she's lying, and she's lying. People in Lviv or Frankivsk or in Ternopol, where I have many relatives, know what the situation is. But they do not have the opportunity to ask Julia Volodymyrna: “Why has she so persistently sown panic all these days? ” But because of the discovery in this room today, one of its deputies is the only distributor of the Swiss drug purchased in Ukraine, which Julia Volodymyrna has been advertising for several days. To whom war is a business. They make money in the troubles of ordinary people. But people couldn't ask about it, just like we couldn't do today, because on every question that's inconvenient to Julia Volodymyr, she just insults the MPs, she's not used to living in a democratic society where there are no awkward questions, but there are stupid answers. She knows that the answer to this question was not the same as she did not have an answer to why on October 24, at this time, when people in Ukraine were dying from the epidemic, she brought tens of thousands of people from western Ukraine to Kiev where the epidemic was centered. We wanted to ask and we asked Julius Volodymyrna whether she was as uninformed as the Prime Minister, whether she had reported what was going on in Western Ukraine, whether she was so cynical, or whether she knew what was going on in Western Ukraine, and what was going on in the deal with her emperor led people out on the street just like they did on May 1, 86.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u102	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u103	led the people to a demonstration, knowing there was an explosion in Chernobyl. That cynicism then and that cynicism now has one nature: it's an effort at all costs, at the cost of health and the life of people to reach power. () [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u104	National Deputy Prokopchuk, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u105	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! You know, when the word “cynicism” is used here and it is politicized in human misery, but it is the greatest sin before God first, because you have a conscience when you talk about some congregations, remember who held the congregations in the four largest cities of Ukraine that gathered people the day before. And Kiev, including. So I suggest you take that question off and don't go back to him. Let's find a way out of this situation, act together and act together. By the way, 18 years no one has done anything in this direction, and when today, despite all the difficulties, the government of Tymoshenko does it, and it does it, it annoys someone. And that's why it teases. Because twice the government of the same Yanukovich has absolutely not hit his finger to prevent a sharp warning against the epidemic. Nevertheless, what should we do today? First of all, all branches of government, all representatives in the executive branch have to act in a coordinated and expeditious manner: to protect doctors themselves immediately, because they really have a lot of pressure; to mobilize pensioners with their consent, students, med graduates, that is to say, to make sure that professionals in this field are able to act quickly. [[mentioned here.]] Next. So it's about pharmacies. Now there's a lot of talk here about pharmacies that, by the way, are also known to have political power that owners privatized to themselves, and now they're talking about something that they don't have. not provided. I want to speak for Equality. All the pharmacies are state-owned, and I'm actually there, as they say, studying the situation and controlling it, all the pharmacies of the state today as representatives of the same political power, I'm not going to call it "for a replica," as they say, here's the words. And of course, it was all done when they had access to privatization. And today you're looking for extremes. I also support this decision and this idea that we need to return a network of government pharmacies and immediately. What is more, I went through one of the reicenters. No pharmacy worked at a time when people were said to have stood under pharmacies. Set up 24-hour alterations and pharmacies, regardless of the form of ownership, so that they can quickly dispense the drugs that are coming. Next. Speed up the rapid delivery of drugs and the necessary equipment. What I'm saying is that today, even planned operations can't take place because of the shortage of artificial breathing equipment. Therefore, this equipment should be one that does not harm patients themselves, because there are conversations and so on, which should be the equipment, “let’s take some cheaper” or some dependent scrap metal. You can't let that happen. This must be the equipment that will work and will come out of the plight of our sick. The terminal deficit of another diagnostic device is also overcome.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u106	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u107	And I propose. In the event of a further increase in the epidemic, additional hospitals will be opened. And from the MPs what needs to be done. We start with the need for immediate adoption of all budgetary changes in order for the funds to come to the end of this pandemic. And I think that's the right thing to do: start with yourself. I propose to the members of the Supreme Council that a week's salary be converted into a fund to fight the pandemic. God save Ukraine! Together, we are the only ones who can overcome this calamity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u108	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I have a request to all those who speak and to the previous speaker. Please stop implying which factions someone has. Name specific names and name specific factions. And stop demeaning people. Call me. And if you don't know, don't call. Please, instead of Kamchatno, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u109	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, you ask for names. There is no secret to anyone that some of the deputies from the Party of Regions are involved in the production of the “Tramadolu”. So instead of doing "Tramadol" and poisoning the country as a whole, they would do "Tamiflu" and give it to those affected by the flu today. They'd make marshmallows, and they'd give those who are now sick and unable to have these connections. Do you understand? And instead of doing politics, let's not do politics on people's mountain when dozens have died, but let's think about how to make more people not die. In this regard, I have specific proposals for the Ministry of Health, the government. We just held a meeting of the Budget Committee. One and a half billion dollars, supported the government's proposals, and we urge the Supreme Council to vote, to set aside for the fight against the flu. I'm asking the Minister of Health, Mr. Vasil Mikhailovich, we're helping people in the cities, but the big problem is helping people in the villages: there's no drugstores in the villages, because they don't allow them to trade. They say: “There is an appropriate education and a suitable license.” Make sure that all 1.5 billion of the money reaches the countryside, make sure that the brigades go there and examine the salt inhabitants. Because the city is gonna come to the hospital, and in the village where she is, and the grandmother comes when the district hospital is 50 kilometers away, there's no medicine? Next, hospital food: it's very important to have medicine in hospitals, but make sure that there's food in hospitals, increase -- it's wrong, you have to increase from that 1.5 billion to get some food to get people to eat properly, because it's going to die of the flu, and it's going to starve. Next, I call on the Attorney General's Office to call to account the marauder who sells 20 bucks masks to people when it's worth 15 copies, which drugs instead of 60 dollars sell 600 dollars. Where's the Attorney General's Office? Where's the Home Office? Why these marauders? During the war, they were thus shot, and today they must be planted for making money on the mountain. I'm also asking you to review the situation to open up drug stores in the villages so that they can be there to allow the ferrets to sell at least the most necessary list of drugs. And the last. I want to thank Prime Minister Timoshenko and the government for the urgent measures that have saved hundreds and hundreds of lives of our citizens. And you don't have to do politics on this, take the example of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u110	National Deputy Corge, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u111	Dear National Deputies! I'd like that. Mr. Oleg Lazko, I'd like to give you some advice. Julia Volodymyrna called for the establishment of a state - owned pharmacy network. So who are you talking to? It's the government's job, the coalition's job: to create a state network of pharmacies that had to be done, of course, to conduct interventions and anything else. So who are you talking to? Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the authorities today have reaffirmed their professional inability to rule the state and to respond to the challenges that exist in society, even if they are formed from the outside. Not long ago, we were all witnesses when the Prime Minister claimed that we would not cause a crisis in the country, and a few weeks later, we were all aware of the results. The flu epidemic is similar today. The whole world has been preparing for this epidemic since the beginning of the year, when the first cases were registered in March and April. Already on April 27, this year, the World Health Organization raised the level of risk to level four, and on June 11 it announced the sixth highest level of danger. It was on April 28, that the government approved a series of regulations to prevent this threat. However, six months later, the flu that gradually migrated around the world quickly entered the everyday life of the population and became a sudden threat — stressing, sudden! - for millions of citizens of our country. Today's analysis shows that the declarative intentions of the government and the neglect of measures to prevent the outbreak of A/H1N1 influenza among the population are well founded. Who today can explain why only on October 30, when the entire country began to talk about a number of deaths, the Ministry of Health was able to post on its website warnings and clinical signs of influenza? On the same day, similar measures were published in the media, not on May 7, as provided for by the government. We've seen it, almost. To date, the necessary purchases for groups at risk of individual resources and other medical devices have not been created, nor have national and regional stocks of material resources, which also needed to be done months ago. There are no measures to ensure that preventive measures are carried out in educational, children’s, preschool, and so forth. So if you sum it up, you can say that there's no diagnostics for today, and there's no vaccine that we're going to get in the spring when we're going to need very little. Similarly, the government’s failure to activate its educational work seems to be the same. Believe me, this list could be added. Surprisingly, the fulfillment of previous orders that. non-fulfillment, duplicated by the October 30th order. The government’s inactivity and silence seem cynical when it was already known in September that the flu disease rose 3.5 times. We need to emphasize that the Supreme Council's profile committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u112	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u113	He informed the Ministry of Education twice and informed the Prime Minister of Ukraine without waiting for an adequate response. At the same time at the end of September for execution. What is the responsibility of the government when we hear stories from the media about the need for a list of medicines and enough of them. Whatever you can do.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u114	Finish up, please, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u115	Thus, it can be noted that today’s indifference to government, lack of professionalism and neglect of the fate of millions of citizens has led to an epidemic of flu in our country, touched every family, child, and, of course, the most socially unprotected population categories.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u116	Thank you. The national deputy of Vyezovsky, the last speaker.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u117	Vladimir Vyezowski, “Our Ukraine”, the MP group “For Ukraine!” Dear Ukrainians! Today, we hear from specialists and not from Ukrainians ’ specialists and how to rescue them. I think the biggest disaster in Ukraine today is that science has not invented one vaccine that our Prime Minister needs as much as possible is a vaccine against lies. A lie that she speaks to every person every day sincerely, smiling and giving prescriptions for all cases of life. That's true. The law that we were able to adopt in this room is probably more important than the one we are talking about today. Because a man who won't have a piece of bread in the morning when he gets up to eat, it's probably hard to expect any vaccine to help him. And that's why when we went up to the real, at least, units of minimum wage and pension today, we made a very strong contribution to overcoming any epidemic that awaits our state. Because with a government like that, I don't think we have one epidemic ahead of us. And so it's only fair that it was us who, by raising the minimum wage, gave the pensioner who had worked for 40 and 50 years a lot better than those who are yelling in this session room today and refusing to let me take a stand. God willing to let them do so deserve those pensioners to live and have a piece of bread and milk from retirement to retirement. Because when we raise the minimum wage, we raise the same thing, because it's the person who lives on the minimum wage and wages who goes to the store to buy flour, bread, oil, milk. And that's what we do on the spot, that's what we don't take from abroad, which means we support our peasants. And that's why it would be quite fair today if, on another occasion, there was a scream that wasn't enough, either for one epidemic situation or for another that was approaching us in Ukraine, I'd like to say, let's take the most care of our Ukrainians, who should be strong, strong, healthy. At the very least, they need to eat well in order for the government to find the money, primarily to support the poorest, and the richest ones will always find reasons to say that there is not enough money. For today the government is acting according to principle: from a world rich in string to a Mercedes! I would like this brutal policy to be stopped by our government. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u118	Ladies and gentlemen, we have completed our consideration of the matter. Invite the deputies to the session room. Ladies and gentlemen, let me remind you that we have discussed today, to consider the situation that has arisen in connection with the flu epidemic and the flu pandemic A/N1N1 and the first-ever response to the spread of pandemic flu in Ukraine. Let us answer today the question, Have we reached our goal? No, it's not. And the goal was to give a clear answer to what was going on, to calm down, to inspire confidence, to give people hope. Did you do this to me? No, it's not. Notice, fight, and run. Notice who's in the session room today, all the interest, all the missing. So it turns out that all of them were mobilized for elections, by the way, at a state expense. Dear colleagues! You and I have come out of the need for responsible reasonableness. Instead, we received mutual accusations and competitions about who cares better about the people. And it turns out that we have a race for who will be in charge of this disaster, and who will be in charge of this problem, and people will be treated exclusively as material. Clearly, this subject is futile. If the epidemic had not occurred, it would have been obvious. And they made it up. I'll give you some statistics, dear fellows! The population mortality rate from pneumonia is 10,000 per cent, with an absolute rate of 6,000 335 in 2005, 5,000 484, 2007 6 000 552 in 2006 and 6,000 465 in 2008. You were given statistics today, why didn't they beat the alarm then? Dear colleagues, why didn't they beat the stats because there were no elections? And it's clear that today we've raised this subject -- we've closed down all the other problems that are causing people. Really? That's true. And thank God, even though the elections have made us go back to this problem, to people's problems. So let's make a decision in the draft, including, let's write it down, respectable colleagues, a thorough dissipation, because people are dying in the village and they don't know what diseases? And we'll answer the question, there's no reason why there's no heat, no problem with hot water, no problem with food, no level of sanitation, no total standard of living. And I'm drawing your attention to the fact that the epidemic started in the poorest regions, and that's what we're talking about today, not what we're talking about. We need to clearly identify the reasons. And in terms of the supply of drugs, the pharmaceuticals, I mean. Let's write down a thorough inventory and who and what they took, starting with pharmacies and ending up making drugs in Ukraine altogether. Because today, when it is said that nothing will be sold, given, the question arises: On what grounds? And relative to its own production. I propose to write down, my dear colleagues, and to take a business trip like this, it used to be common knowledge, “Burevosnik”. They produce devices, including the artificial breathing of seven samples that ask abroad, and we record only importable in the draft decision. So let us, dear colleagues, stop blaming each other and realize that the problem is extremely acute and requires our concerted action. So far, we've got a race going on with each other and a race going on with who's going to be the first on this issue. Clearly, the subject of elections is free of charge, for people are living their lives. We need to make a comprehensive decision. You've been given a draft ruling on this. Is there a need to report on the draft decision? Just a minute. Is there a problem or not? Then I'm going to put my peers to the vote, because there are a number of questions. I'll lay the groundwork and then we'll go on. [[B in m in s a l in]] What? That's how we're based, and then we'll be there. Dear colleagues, we'll take the basis, and then we'll be clarifying, adding to the vote, well, that you are. I'm voting on the adoption of the bill as the basis of the bill's registration number. draft Decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine registration number 5302. Please vote. [[13:22:42]] For 397 We've taken the stand. Of course, the honourable colleagues, who will make it clear in the final part that the report on this issue was made by Prime Minister Timoshenko Yulia Volodymyrical on this matter. [[B in m in s a l in]] Next, your honors, or we're going to be making changes now and trying to make a decision on this whole, or we're going to propose a written proposal for, say, Wednesday or Thursday we're going to take the final choice. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, what will be your opinion? Now we're going to listen to the proposals and vote them out or not. [[B in m in s a l in]] Calm down! Wait a minute! In order for us to make a decision, we did well to do so. To this day, propose to make written proposals to the draft decision. Tomorrow we accept it as a final edition so that we do not waste too much time or compete in front of each other. Is such an offer accepted? I'm asking you in writing to make an offer to the profile committee and tomorrow to have it brought up at 10 o'clock 30 minutes after the performances. No objections?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u119	Thank you, then. Dear colleagues, now we need to consider the second question. This is a draft of the Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2009 – a proposal by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to further address the consequences and the warning of this disaster in the future 1 billion dollars. We had a discussion on one issue, and the Cabinet of Ministers would be the principal of the funds, that is, they would be directed to the Kabmin reserve fund or directly to the Ministry of Health. The position of the Prime Minister, the honourable colleagues, you have heard, the main thing is that these funds are provided for in the law and the main thing is for these funds to come to an immediate solution to this problem. Is there a need to report from the committee? Please, Mikola Ivanovich Derkach. Now, from the committee, he's going to do a report. Mikola Ivanovich Derkach. This is one of the funds foreseen for the Euro-2012. Huh? Dear colleagues, it is suggested that the information on this subject is now provided by the Deputy Finance Minister Matthewsuk, he is, and then the position of the committee, and we vote. But there's money. Kabmin's made up his mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u120	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The development of the flu situation requires considerable financial resources. With a view to rapid rapid response to the situation, financial security in the regions, as well as centralised measures, the government is asking for support for amendments to the State Budget 2009 Act, registration number 5301. The bill envisions an increase in the state budget’s reserve fund by 1 billion dollars and directing it to the prevention and treatment of influenza patients. These funds are intended to target the purchase of medicines and medicines, the purchase of appropriate medical equipment for the Ukrainian manufacturer, especially artificial appliances. For artificial ventilation of the lungs that provide long-term artificial ventilation of the lungs. Ladies and gentlemen, taking into account the possible developments in the situation, I ask you today to accept these changes to the state budget entirely as proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Dear citizens of Ukraine! Dear National Deputies! The government has sufficient financial resources and will ensure that all measures to overcome the flu epidemic are financed. The answer to this question is time - to - time. The adoption of the law will only improve the financing situation. Taking this opportunity, on behalf of the government, I appeal to you, Your Honor Vladimir Mikhailovich, and to the President of Ukraine to speed up the signing of this law, which I hope today will be passed in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u121	Thank you. No objections?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u122	Questions. Come on, five minutes. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to make a decision. Sign up, five minutes. Yes, please put your name on the board. Vladimir Karpuk, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u123	Vladimir Karpuk, MP “For Ukraine!” Dear Volodymyr Makarovich, we know you as an expert in this field. You've been working for years. It's a big one billion total fund for 2009. The Ministry of Health had 4 billion. We realize that these funds can be used in a variety of ways and by looking at the solutions that were offered, the price of breathing appliances offered by foreign production. So that it wouldn't be an attempt to make money again on human misery at the level of the budget. Where, then, would these funds come from? How essential should control be? I think there should be control from the MPs, the appropriate budget committee, and health care so as not to be decided by the nonprofessionals, what equipment, what medicine, and what to buy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u124	I thank you very much, Your Honor, for this question. We absolutely support parliamentary control on this issue. I want to tell you that the commission led by the People's Deputy Pecklesenko on the use of funds in the last year of targeted subsidies to eliminate the consequences of natural disasters has even helped us use these funds. And today, at a meeting of the Committee on the Budget of the Supreme Council, proposals were supported, as said by Mikola Ivanovich Derac, about the establishment of such a commission to control the use of these funds. Thank you. The source of this expenditure is the government budget coming from the National Bank as a surplus of income over expenditure. The reduction in expenditure that was intended to be directed toward other goals is now proposed to focus on the problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u125	Alla Alexandrovska, please, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u126	Alexandrovska, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Vladimir Makarović, the point is that I asked you a question on the committee, but I still want you to answer my question in public here in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please tell me why the Government does not want to give 101 billion dollars to the Ministry of Health in its professional use, because we understand that the Ministry of Health should follow the situation, understand where people are suffering, what kind of disease they are suffering, what are the chances that this disease is threatening their lives? So the Ministry of Health is the professionals who are actually responsible for our health in Ukraine. Why does the Government of Timoshenko not want to trust the Ministry of Health with this billion griven? First. Second. According to my data, which is based on treasury data, as of the first September of this year, about 200 million bracelets had not been allocated money to the Ministry of Health, the money provided for in the budget. Wouldn't that be a billion to go to the roof?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u127	Let me finish the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u128	Should it not be so that this billion griffin, which will be in the contingency fund, will be used by the Government to cover other budget deficits under other budget lines, which are currently underfunded by several hundred million bracelets?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u129	Dear Alla Alexandrovna, I thank you for your questions and would like to answer it again in this way. In general, the budget is planned by a software target method, you know that, you're a member of the budget committee. We have an emergency situation and we need to make use of it under emergency procedures. We can't plan funds to eliminate emergencies to the relevant ministries. They need operational use, redistribution between regions, timely use, and so forth. This can only be provided from the contingency fund. So I'm asking you to support this position. And I'm stressing again. We agree. We're going to set up a room at the Ministry of Finance for the Supreme Council deputies who can watch how these funds are used every day. And we will be very grateful for that help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u130	Vladimir Bondarenko, faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u131	Vladimir Bondarenko. We've just been on the budget committee, and we've been looking very, very carefully at the ways we can go in order to get these funds to go where they're needed as quickly as possible. There are really three ways. You can put it in the region. And then there the local sessions, if they come together, will confirm the use of these funds if they come together. Often they do not gather, by the way, after the accidents and calamities that have occurred in the west of Ukraine, money has not been used so far because there are no politicized sessions. Another way. This can be attributed to the Ministry of Health. Then the tender procedure will take about three months for the money to be used again. So when it comes to how to go, obviously, a better way than what the government has offered, there is no way. The point is that today we can actually distribute it from the reserve fund. At the same time, we have made a warning, and today the budget committee will propose to you to create a special control commission that will control every penny that goes through this fund. So I ask you to support what Vladimir Makarovitch has to offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u132	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to confirm that this year we've allocated more money to eliminate the effects of last year's disaster. And we've been asked by individual areas that we can't gather district sessions to use this money for targeted subsidies. I ask you to support the inclusion of the contingency fund and with your control committee we will ensure the efficient use of this money and at the right time. We can transfer these funds to the regions in five minutes from the Ministry of Finance, if that's what it takes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u133	Yes, thank you, have a seat. Now the committee's decision. Mikola Ivanovich Derkach.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u134	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, Honourable People's Deputies, are invited! The Committee on Budget Affairs today considered a bill amending the 2009 Act on the State Budget of Ukraine, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers for number 5301. The bill is designed to create favourable conditions to counter the influenza epidemic in Ukraine, namely, to provide all hospitals in the country with the necessary medicines and equipment to diagnose the disease and to prevent the spread of the flu epidemic, as well as to provide citizens with professional care and free medicines. According to the government, on November 2, the remaining unallocated funds of the Reserve Fund were 152 million dollars by the end of this year, taking into account the decisions actually taken by the Cabinet of Ministers. The bill therefore provides for an increase of $1 billion in the state budget reserve expenditure from the redistribution between the general and special state budget funds, and an excess of gross revenue from the National Bank's expenditure without changing the overall state budget figures, I stress. Thus, the specified bill is balanced with regard to the budgetary indicators. In doing so, the committee discussed a proposal to allocate funds directly to the Ministry of Health and to separate subsidies to the regions to address the issues, but this proposal was not supported. Taking into account the need for a speedy settlement of the relevant issue in the context of the consideration of the bill, the Committee on Budget Affairs adopted a decision: recommending to the Supreme Council a bill for number 5301 to be adopted as a basis and as a whole as a law. In addition, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that a commission be set up to monitor the use of the State Budget Reserve Fund to counter the influenza epidemic in Ukraine, including one representative per member of each parliamentary faction. In case of support for such a proposal, I ask that the factions' heads be entrusted by the end of the day to submit proposals to the Committee on Budget Questions to such a committee for the preparation of the relevant draft decision of the Supreme Council. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u135	Dear colleagues, the report is done. Here only one question arises, Mikola Ivanovich and esteemed colleagues, as follows: Are the previous laws that we have enacted included in this law? This is 4707 and 4758. Do they agree with each other?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u136	Vladimir Mihajlovich, if a bill was voted today, which was passed on October 23rd, then it will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u137	Well, that's where he's supposed to fit in, isn't it?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u138	We must vote and then instruct the Committee on Budget Issues, together with the Legal Office, to bring everything in line with the budgetary indicators.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u139	Thank you. So there are no questions for the coconspirator. Dear colleagues, the committee's proposal. So let's talk about this, I'd like to ask, honourable colleagues, from each faction, let's express our position one minute at a time. No objections? From every faction. Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov. Give me a minute. Then Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk. Microphone, please. Please come in.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u140	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, well, we know that the Kabmina Reserve Fund is a black hole. Where money comes from, where it goes. Well, one thing's clear is the election campaign. We don't want to bury a billion people on an election campaign. Indeed, people need to be put to good health. To that end, we propose that we abandon the money transfer to the Kabmin Reserve Fund and that 80 per cent of Minhvod's money is in the territories and 20 per cent are in the centre, that money be split in half and 50 per cent sent directly to the territory, 50 per cent to Minhvod, and that we should exercise the strongest control of the Committee on Budgets and the Committee on Health for the Purpose of the Use of This Money. To be monitored by the Office of the Attorney-General. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u141	Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u142	Dear colleagues, there is no doubt that decisions must be made. But we have to make a decision so that this billion dollars goes into the problem that we're discussing. Does he write about the problem? No, he won't. Because if we direct these funds to the reserve fund, then the reserve fund has the right and authorization of the reserve fund to use the funds that are on its balance sheet on any problem. I would like to emphasize once again any problem. So out of this billion, the only thing that can go into the flu is the bubble, and it's going to be all right, and it's going to be all legal. So I'm very surprised why the committee didn't support the right and wise proposal, which, as I understand from the committee's report, was to give money to those struggling with the flu to the Ministry of Health. So let's vote for that. And what the commissions are creating is a tender. Vladimir Mikhailovich, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u143	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u144	That's the thing. Volodymyr, tender. The ministers have the right to eliminate the tender and to say that one buyer has the right. Here's a tender for you. And one more thing. We don't enjoy ourselves as commissions. The flood commission was, and a colleague reported where the money went — to the sand. So let's give a billion to the Ministry of Health, we're willing to vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u145	Yes, thank you. Now, please, Katerina Vaschuk, the Lithuanian Block. Then Oleg Lazko. And then from "Our Ukraine, the People's Self-Defense," who will be speaking? Mikola Martinenko. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? We need to make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u146	Dear colleagues, I think there's no doubt in this room about the importance of this decision, and our faction will support it as well. I just wanted to pay attention to the following moments. All we're talking about right now is drugs, tenders, medicine. We forgot that today our doctors are sick, and many work outside of shifts, overtime, working their hours, taking extra shifts, changing hospitals off schedule. There's a lot of time worked out. The people involved in retirement work today. That is, it requires an increase in the wages of health workers. There's a minimum wage. If we don't pay for their feat today, we will.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u147	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u148	We're going to do a lot of damage. Therefore, I would like to take into account the additional subsidies to the areas to be paid to medical workers for their overtime work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u149	Dear Catherine Timofievna, dear colleagues! We're in a project that we've adopted as a basis, and it's a recommendation from the Cabinet of Ministers: to increase the official salary by five times to those who are directly involved in solving this problem. Oleg Light, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u150	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, especially those who say that money from the reserve fund will go to the polls! We're voting with you on a bill to amend the State budget -- and we're going to target this billion, or more than one and a half billion, to fight the flu pandemic, and nothing else -- not elections, not elections, not elections, but just to fight the flu. And for that, it's suggested that we monitor the use of these funds. Why is it because of the contingency fund? Because, as Mr. Matthew said, this is the fastest way to get the money at the destination. If we put this in the region, he's a fellow member of the Party of Regions who heads a temporary commission of inquiry to control the use of funds for disasters, he'll confirm that no funds have been used to date, so far no work has been done on payments, because whether the district council can't gather, the decision to make, or any other reason. We have people who are dying every day for 10 people, and we're going to have district councils gather to predict where they're going with the money. Let the Cabinet of Ministers, we demand it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u151	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u152	Let the Cabinet of Ministers take action from him. So give him the opportunity to take these measures. And then we say Kabmin answers, and the money is going to divide the area. Half will be stolen, and what is not stolen will be divided into three years.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u153	Thank you. The People's Deputy of Argevite, the faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". May I have your attention, Your Honor?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u154	Ladies and gentlemen, we really need to vote for this decision, but I very much ask you, let's change the source of the price of this decision. Because recently, from this rostrum, the minister's responsibility for the question, “Where can I get the money for Euro?” He replied that the National Bank would not be able to allocate it because there is official information from the National Bank that they will earn 650 million during 2009. And the minister's response was, in effect, that we were changing the source to another. We go back to the subject, we go back to the source that is not real. So I'm asking you very much, let's change the source. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u155	Dear colleagues, Vladimir Mikhailovich Matviychuk, then Alexander Lavrinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u156	Honorable National MPs, distinguished National Deputies. Dear Adam Ivanovich, I'd like to address you. You have made an offer to give this money to the Ministry of Health. I would like to prove to you that health care agencies throughout Ukraine are not in the Ministry of Health’s jurisdiction, and they only have institutions that they finance from the budget. The rest in Ukraine are subordinated to local government authorities. Therefore, the Ministry of Health cannot finance these institutions. From the contingency fund, funds can be transferred to local government administrations, local governments, and they can use them peacefully under the control of the Supreme Council. I ask you to take this into account when voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u157	Now, one minute. Alexander Lavrinovich, then Martinyuk's replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u158	Dear colleagues, since the theory is that the shortest route is a contingency fund, I can agree with the first part of this statement. The reserve fund is really the shortest way to abuse. And Vladimir Mikhailovich is so surprised, he's spreading his hands. I'm going to give you a selection of the Cabinet of Ministers' decisions on allocating funds from the reserve fund. For example, the organization of the All-Ukrainian Council on Social and Economic Development -- 15 million dollars -- for the creation of a state institution -- the Social Contact Centre -- 20 million dollars, the preparation and celebration of the anniversary of independence -- 15 million dollars, the replenishment of the statutory capital of the firm "Document" -- 10 million dollars. I have a very long list. I think you know as well as I do about the Reserve Fund and you know what a natural disaster is. And you know where you can direct these costs. If we want to make use of the funds currently earmarked for the purpose of abuse, especially during the electoral campaign, I want you to mention here the materials of the Court of Auditors that the head reported when they say there will be a barrier to tender procedures. We have a barrier -- that over 60 billion dollars were bought by one participant, at least, after what happened at the time of this report. Let's not come up with artificial arguments if we want to help our citizens fight the epidemic, we need money for those who will use it for treatment -- the Ministry of Health, and it has its units all over Ukraine, and it can quickly solve all the issues without any additional bureaucratic procedures.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u159	Yes, it's Adam Martinyuk, and we'll move on to making a decision. Invite the national deputies to the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u160	Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! Well, we're also familiar with the Cabinet of Ministers' decision. And the last decision of the Cabinet of Ministers suggests that all health institutions, regardless of their known subordination, including even the Ministry of Defence, have been handed over to the Ministry of Health. During this period, I stress once again, the Cabinet of Ministers decrees that the Ministry of Health is now subordinated to all medical institutions of the state, including the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Emergency Situations and any hospitals and hospitals. That is, they are now subordinated to the minister of health. If there is such a decision, and it is, the Ministry of Health also needs money. There's no other way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u161	Dear colleagues, they didn't call it. Sit down, calm down. Let's make a decision. Well, they didn't call it a last name. Adam Ivanovich, did you call Bondarenko? Bondarenka? No, it's not. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, we need to make a decision. [[B in m in s a l in]] Minister Knyazevich. Well, I beg you, dear colleagues, do we need a decision or a discussion? Your last name wasn't on it. Calm down. [[B in m in s a l in]] Minister of Health Mike, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u162	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, honourable deputies! First of all, thank you for the quiet conversation that took place in this room. Thank you for the billion you give, which is essential. The mechanism. The Ministry of Health has arranged for this period functionally, more loyally, the Cabinet of the Ministry of Health for all medical facilities to be ordered and all worked in unison. But a billion people can't be allocated and able to work in this respect. That's why I'd like to. I wish the same thing as the last one would remain the same.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u163	Dear colleagues, we need to make a decision. That's a proposition. Let's do that. We must, under any circumstances, settle down and make a decision. The first proposal put forward by the Committee on Budget Issues is to support the government's initiative and vote on the basis, as a whole. The second suggestion was that the Ministry of Health should be designated as one of the directors of the funds. The third proposal was complicated: Fifty to fifty. Therefore, we will put all these proposals to the vote in order. But the first is a government proposal supported by a budget committee. So please note, I'm voting on the proposal of a committee on the adoption of draft law 5301 as drafted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Please vote. [[13:52:46]] For 214 The decision is not taken. The factions. Dear colleagues, I announce, the Party of Regions is 0, "Club of Yulia Timoshenko" - 151, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" - 42, Communists - 0, "Club of Lithuania" - 20, non-fractional - 1. Please, on this point, Oleg Lazko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u164	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, taking into account the statement made by the Minister of Health that they will not succeed and will not be able to use this billion, we are at risk with you. We're going to accept, and now we're going to be offering to allocate a billion dollars to the MOH, and they're not going to use that money, and they're going to be affected by people who need it today. I propose to return to this vote and support the Ministry of Health, and the government. If the Ministry of Health admits that they will not use this billion, as we can vote for it, this may be the case. People are waiting for help from us.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u165	Viacheslav Kirilenko was not speaking today, then one of the factions of the Party of the Regions. Please, someone, Alexander Efraemov. Well, there's two of you, identify yourself. Now Viacheslav Kirilenko. If there's a need for another faction, let's do it one at a time.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u166	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “For Ukraine! ” Dear colleagues! We try to encourage each other not to politicize the subject, but in every speech and vice versa. When it comes to the professional approach and the place where the professionals are concentrated, it is the Ministry of Health of his institution and the institutions and institutions now administered by the Ministry of Health, I am clear. Don't shout, for once in your life don't scream, you know something, don't scream. Yes, I understand very well the logic of the minister of health who is uncomfortable in the presence of the Minfin representatives to say that he will implement and benefit from this one billion dollars. I think we should help the minister here. But then both control and clearly allocate this one billion dollars to the Ministry of Health profile. And that means institutions that are subordinated: medical institutions and other institutions that are now fighting the epidemic. And it'll be the right decision not to have any suspicion that the election money will go through the Reserve Fund.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u167	Alexander Efraemov. Then Adam Martinyuk. And after that, who's there from the Lithuanian Block? Is there not a desire?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u168	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I would like to remind representatives of the Ministry and the Government and colleagues in the Hall that 80 per cent of our health is in the regions and not in the Ministry. Therefore, Vladimir Mihajlovich, I would like to propose to the second to put to the vote the question of 50 per cent of the amount, which is distributed by the Ministry and 50 per cent by subsidies to the regions. And put the matter to a second vote. We do not know who or when he was discussing the proposal to hand over to the Ministry. If there is no vote on the second question, then we will vote and pass it on to the Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u169	Adam Martinyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u170	Dear colleagues! They must have aged this session hall, first met a minister who did not want money. I don't remember anything like that in this session room. Every minister asks, comes and asks for money. We finally found a unique minister who doesn't want money. But I think so. But I understand very well why he had to say those words. Because Minfin told him that if you said you were taking money, you wouldn't get anything, so don't take it, we'll give you something. Therefore, dear fellows! Dear colleagues, I am ready to support the offer made by my colleague Ephraim: fifty - fifty or all one billion ministries, but by no means in the hands of the Cabinet of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u171	Is there anyone on the block of Lithuania? None. All of it. Dear colleagues, now I remind you. Calm down, you can't! We need to decide whether to talk. Ladies and gentlemen, I say to my esteemed colleague, "Don't be abusing yourself. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I would like to point out that we have put to the vote the government's proposal, supported by the Committee on Budget Affairs, to adopt the draft law proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which was supported by 214 deputies. The issue was being discussed on the subject of directing and making these funds, determining the Ministry of Health's main cost manager, even the issue was raised by the Prime Minister of Ukraine. The prime minister of Ukraine, if you remember, gave the answer: the main thing is that you make the decision. So, dear fellows, this proposal will go with the second one. And the third proposal came at the last moment to distribute fifty by fifty. So I'm going to put the second sentence to the vote. On adoption as the basis of the draft Law, the Ministry of Health has appointed the chief cost manager. [[Registration number 5301]] Please vote. [[13:58:55]] For 229 Decision taken. [[Applause]] The committee's proposal was to accept this project as a whole. No objections? You don't? Please, Oleg Lazko Well, there are objections, dear colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] Please. I'll put you to a vote, you calm down, please!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u172	Vladimir Mikhailovich, here's one of the bills that we're going to be considering today to eliminate disagreements in the text of the previously adopted law. Here we are facing a similar situation with the law that we are currently considering. There are measures that the MCS should take. There are measures that the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Minprompolitics and other departments. If we're with you, and the Ministry of Defense, if we're with you now, what's the backup fund for all these departments to be able to use money if necessary. If we're putting this on the MOH now, we're going to take some changes to the budget tomorrow, and we're going to transfer it back to the other supervisors. This law is not going to work, but it is going to work every minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-03-m0.u173	Dear colleagues, since the road is every minute, and we voted, and we found some understanding with you. I told you once again that I'm going to put these proposals to the vote. Then, what, cancel the vote? Well, no. Does no one object to the whole project being approved? [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll bet you a vote on the admission of Honorable Colleagues, and we'll continue our morning session for 15 minutes. [[B in m in s a l in]] I want to say again, don't shout! I come out of what proposals the Prime Minister of Ukraine has made. [[B in m in s a l in]] Attention, Your Honor! Well, don't scream! I want to say it again. I want to say it again. [[B in m in s a l in]] What? [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, I don't know. I'm going to put this proposal to the vote. Honorary colleagues, given the severity of the situation, will support the Supreme Council of Ukraine's proposal that we now adopt draft law registration number 5301 in the final edition, i.e. in general. Please vote. Well, what are you, “Vlodimir Mikhailovich”? [[14:01:38]] For 240 Decision taken. May I have your attention, please? We're running out of time. I'm voting on the proposal to adopt draft law registration number 5301 as a law. Please vote. [[14:02:09]] For 401 By factions, please, the Party of Regions – 157, Block of Timoshenko – 150, Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense – 44, Communists – 27, Block of Lithuania – 20, non-fractional – 3. Dear colleagues, if you will have one more minute of attention, we need to accept the clarification of the law that we have voted on, otherwise these laws will not interact with two. [[Registration number 4758]] You've been given these suggestions, we've agreed to them at the Conciliation Council. I'll put it to a vote, please. Well, please, give me a chance to work! Vote please! [[14:03:04]] For 340. Decision taken. Now, dear colleagues, your attention to the transcript. The Supreme Council of Ukraine has adopted the Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2009 (in relation to the allocation of additional baskets to counter the influenza epidemic in Ukraine). In addition, on October 23, the Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2009 was adopted. [[concerning the construction of a bridge in Zaporozhye]] And today it has been voted to remove the differences in the text of this law. Therefore, I ask the Committee on Budget Affairs, together with the Chief Legal Authority, to reconcile these laws before signing them among themselves in the summary income and expenditure indicators to ensure the balance of the State budget for 2009. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Break until 4:00. At 16 o'clock we'll continue our work at the evening session.
