ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration and invite the deputies to the session room so that we can continue our fruitful work. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:01:57]] Cards are registered in the session hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for 432 national deputies. Then, the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is declared open. We continue our consideration of the issues set out in the March 31st schedule. The draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on the establishment of district offices in administrative cities]] Registration number 3240. The rapporteur is Ukraine's national deputy, Trajduk Mikola Fedorovich. Correspondent, deputy head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, Klukkowski Yuri Bogdanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u2	Honourable Volodymira Mihajlovich, honourable colleagues, amending article 5 and article 41 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government, will allow the law to impose the right of the city council to create district administrations in cities of administration in situations where there are no district districts in the city councils. Since the city’s district administrations actually exist in some cities in Ukraine, they are often both Odessa and Lviv and some other large cities. It is necessary to regulate their status in a legislative way. I would like to pay particular attention to the following situation. I myself have personally led the area in the city, and it is said that from the inside I know very well the whole problem of working this specific chain in local self - government. What's the specifics? Districts in the city of council today do not actually have any powers in law, namely, the Law on Local Self - Rule in Ukraine in article 41, and it states that these powers should be given to city councils. At the same time, the City Council, even determining the right to approve the budget, which is a kind of financial plan of the region's socio-economic development programme for today, fully defines the income part, not the budget, but the classical cost of the expenditure. That is, if you take off beautiful armor, the district council is not a self - control body now behind all the canons, and such a specific electoral college is once every five years of district executives and collegiate expenditure controllers. I'm not saying it to humiliate the status, I'm saying it to the contrary. In order to solve this problem, first things need to be called your names, and then it is wise to suggest what needs to be done. This law does not answer this particular problem. The answer can only be the completion of political reform in the area of local self-government, where the primary chains will be provided with real powers and I stand behind this idea of developing local self-government. By the way, the scientific expertise was guided by these very motivations, proposing that the bill be rejected, he said.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u3	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u4	But as they say in the people, "By the time the sun rises, the dew of the eyes will eat up." The adoption of this law aims to legislate the possibility of the city’s district councils in city administrations. This will be the basis for the expansion of laws and other regulations in the city’s district authorities regarding local self - government, the service of local self - government. And these changes do not require additional spending from the state budget of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u5	Thank you! Have a seat, please. Yuri Bogdanovich Klukkowski is the deputy head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u6	Thank you, Your Honor. The bill, which you are proposing, is aimed at clarifying the content of the City Council's mandate provided for in the Ukrainian Constitution to deal with matters of governance in areas, in cities. It's very small, and he just claims that in a case where the district councils don't create councils, and this right in the city councils is, to determine that the district councils don't form, that in that case the city council forms a city council executive body in the area, but this executive body is not supposed to be collegial and not sectoral, but complex and based on the principles of single-headedness. Thus, it is proposed to be called an administration. In considering this issue, the committee had a warning about the term “administrative” and that is why we propose to adopt this bill, not as a whole, but only on the first reading, in order to solve this terminology problem for the second reading. At the same time, I would like to say that the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority recommends that this bill be rejected, and in this context, Mr. President of the Supreme Council, I would like to take another look at the problem, I would say, the strange nature of the findings of the Scientific and Scientific Administration. I can say that it is based on a free, if not said, strange interpretation of the Constitution of Ukraine and the decisions of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, which I think is unacceptable when it comes to the apparatus of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Once again, I ask the honourable colleagues of the Ukrainian people's deputies to support this bill in their first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u7	Thank you. Have a seat, please. As far as Science and Experimental Administration is concerned, we're going to look at your point of view and we're going to take the right steps. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for your position on this bill. It's a recording. Please put the names of the people's deputies on the board. Anatoly Matvienko, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Jaroslav Suhi will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u8	Anatoly Matvienko, Ukrainian Republican Party "The Council", block "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense". Dear colleagues, I support the decision to vote in the first reading, do we really have a rereading today?? Calling all institutions administration. But I would like to draw attention to 140 articles. A hundred-fortieth article and we have to get used to, I know there are opponents here, that the community itself determines the organization of governance and the appropriate executive bodies and the establishment of the district division, and the existence of councils or their absence. I think it's a democratic choice and where we have a council district is definitely an execution, but I would like to point out that we have in such systems, that there are administrative units where there are areas and where there are ongoing conflicts and these ongoing conflicts create a very serious obstacle to the governance of the community and the city. It seems quite fair to me that when the community itself, and, I think, in time, we have to make a change to the Local Self-Government Act, that the district division of districts and district councils, or the administration, should be properly decided by referendum, we can introduce such a standard in order to improve the efficiency of the administration of the city. And I would like to ask all my colleagues to support this bill in the first reading and to vote, so we will demonstrate the democracy of organizing local self-government in large cities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u9	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions. Microphone, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u10	Dear colleagues, why, for example, might we agree with our colleague Matthewnko that this bill should be supported in the first reading. But here's the problem. This law could be supported in the first reading and then worked on it and in general if it were to approach the problem you are building a vertical power complex, as Deputy Head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government Yuri Bogdanovich Klukovsky said. You know what we have now, what paradoxes. And there's a district government in large district centers, and there's no district council, there's no district council, there's no district councils, there's no election. There are district councils, and there are no district government administrations. I understand about law. I named your last name Yuri Bogdanovich, without insulting you absolutely, God forbid, I would never want that in my life. What do I mean? Maybe it's right that the territorial community has the right to determine its own distribution of power in places. But we have to see some logic here, so we should probably and should clearly establish the bill, if there's a district division in the district center to the districts, then there should be a district council and a district government. Dear colleagues, we do have precedents when friction occurs between the city council and the district governments when much is said about the injustice of budget allocation. For example, on the scale of Ukraine, we can see the same in the district center, where one district is larger, and the area that, for example, earns more, is smaller and more similar. For that to happen, district councils are needed. So I would ask, if we don't vote for this bill today, it's necessary, but in order for it to be complex, it needs to be sent for further work and it needs to be adopted in a clear, comprehensible manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u11	Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, Communist faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, I am sad to say that such a high-profile committee, which is the Committee on State Building, where there are colleagues behind their shoulders who have more than one year of parliamentary experience, are engaged in such laws. I'm not going to call these names, but let's just think about it. Unfortunately, this bill and I want to take you on an anti-constitutional path. It's not just an anti-constitutional path, we want to confirm the anti-constitutionality of what was done in my honor of Lviv in the 1990s. There were also wise men who wanted to spit on the laws of the State and visited areas in the city for what they said would be an economy, we would manage ourselves. Some other cities took this negative example. Why do we need neighborhoods in the cities? Then let's do it, fellow authors, we'll write another one that we can eliminate areas, or let's eliminate the district division in cities. And then there will be no district council, no administration that we now come up with and give them authority against the Constitution, because we write that the rights and duties, the possibilities of this administration's work will be determined by the city council. And who it is to determine the status of management throughout the region is the constitutional norm, it's the norm of the law and so on and so forth. The norm of the Constitution. So, dear colleagues, let us instead support the anticonstitutional actions that have been taken in a number of cities, and if I am not mistaken, about nine of these regions have not continued to create anticonstitutionalities. You can't make such a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u13	Yuri Klukkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u14	Dear colleagues, I am very sorry that some of the truly highly educated, highly professional MPs are unjustifiably accusing other deputies of supporting unconstitutionalism. My advice is to open 140 articles of the Constitution and read carefully the norm that states that the issue of city council management refers to the jurisdiction of the city council. Therefore, of course, I wish there were no misunderstandings. And apart from Kiev and Sevastopol, there are no government administrations in any city, I emphasize, state administrations. There are only executive self - government agencies everywhere. That is why the word “administrative ” can be misleading. And this is why the committee proposes to support only the first reading to replace the word “administrative”. But once again, this bill is fully incorporated into both the Constitution of Ukraine and in the interpretation of the relevant provisions of the Constitution by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, which has been given several times. I'm asking you to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u15	Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. [[Registration number 3240]] The committee's proposal is to take it as a basis. There is a motion for a committee to adopt a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine, registration number 3240. [[on the establishment of district offices in administrative cities]] Please vote. [[16:16:14]] For 212 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on the first reading again, aren't I? Please vote. Registration number 3240. [[16:16:45.]] For 224 The decision is not taken, the bill is rejected. Dear colleagues, you and I have agreed to work in accordance with the Rules. In this connection, I would like to remind you that if the political accounts of the people of the same faction cannot be kept between them, they are writing a complaint against me, including Sergey Teryohin, which seems to have not been sent there. I mean, the document was sent there, figure out who's going to control the excise and don't look for someone who's guilty in the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Honorary colleagues, two factions — the faction of the Ukrainian Company and the Party of the Regions — demand that the Rules announce a 30-minute recess for consultations. Why don't you just tell me what you can do to get back to work? Please, three minutes, Nestor Schufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u16	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, today we want to go to the Supreme Court of Ukraine for support of creation, and in fact the restoration of the work of the Special Investigation Commission, considering that the relevant law on the Special Investigations Commissions was finally accepted with us after almost 13 years of customs, and to restore and actually create a new commission to study the circumstances of the poisoning of Viktor Andryovich Yashchenk. 4.5 years, unfortunately. We are hostages of the situation that took place in 2004. There are no answers. Society today has a right to know what was actually happening, whether it was poisoning or not, and if it was poisoned, who, because we heard that the environment of Kuchma and then the surroundings of Yushchenk were involved in the matter. You know, what's going on in the DA's investigation group today is also a lot. raises a lot of questions. For example, an investigator in Donsky, who was sitting at the Pecher district court in the Zwania case, admitted that he was trying to impress David Zwania with the so - called poison rather than looking for evidence, that is, the investigators are already making an impression on us. I'm not saying that the same investigator, as we know, demanded direct matches. Beating the actual testimony to his leadership. This is certainly to be checked as to the fact that the head of the investigation team Klimovic is more involved with Yushchenko and his family than with the investigator’s own administration. And there's a fact that even last Friday -- we're sure to check all this out in the commission of inquiry -- that she was with Yushchenka, and then there's a question of how can the head of the task force communicate with Yushchenko, who's on this case yet to be affected? Of course, we have to put a dot on all speculations and bring to society the only possible truth, we have to answer clearly, or there has been poisoning, if so, who has done it and why there is no punishment today. In 2005, Yushchenka had all the powers that were said to be compulsive, but there was nothing he could do. I think we need to unite and help the guarantor find the guilty if they are. Thank you. Please support the implementation of draft Decree 4264: on the creation of an appropriate commission of inquiry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u17	Sit down, Nestor Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I understand. One minute! I understand the fact that we need to find an opportunity to continue our work today at the Supreme Council. On the other hand, we need to find an understanding in the session room. Because it is clear that, in accordance with the Rules - if I am not mistaken, article 88 - does not require inclusion in the agenda of the TSC. At the same time, we need to find agreement at the level of all the MP factions so that there is no objection. Although I am also aware of the fact that the honourable colleagues, if there are 150 votes, will under any circumstances be made a decision. So now I'm asking you one minute from the factions. Express your position on this matter so that we do not have opposition. That's the first one. And the second. Dear colleagues, yesterday at the Conciliation Council, it was clearly stated that the Supreme Council of Ukraine could handle the work of 10 commissions at the same time, providing them with organizational, material and technical support. We already have the 12th commission. So under any circumstances, there's going to be a point that's going to have to be removed that puts this commission's security on the Supreme Council of Ukraine's apparatus. Meeting rooms, please. Yes, I think you can work as well as extra effort to exercise MP's powers. And that's the first one. And the second. And so all candidatures are agreed by each faction to be representatives of each faction. Please state your position from the factions. Please, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”, who will speak from you? National Deputy Karpuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u18	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Vladimir Karpuk, MP “For Ukraine!” If, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, you are looking for reconciliation in the work of the Supreme Council, the creation of such a temporary commission does not exactly bring this issue into line. If you look at the composition of this committee, we see that these are the people who, in 2004, immediately after the poisoning, did not admit it, and despite the results of international expertise, claimed other things. And they are once again part of this committee. We can see that there are other people who are actually in charge of an anti-presidential commission. This interim commission of inquiry will be involved in its conclusions, and no truth will come to us. The deadline is one year and the report is six months later, that is, just before the presidential election, it will be thrown into the informational space of the mass of dirty information and we will not find out any truth. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u19	Give me a chance to finish. Please. Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u20	The faction of "Our Ukraine" did not agree, let's say, with deputies who would be part of this commission. So this commission is not going to bring the truth to the Ukrainian people, no. It's going to create other precedents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u21	It's a faction of the Yulia Tymoshenko. Excuse me, Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko, faction of Yulia Timoshenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u22	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, the faction supports this draft decree. But, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, we have a proposal so, in fact, not to over-politicize and such an electrified question, which is what's on the committee's name, we have on Wednesday you're gathering faction leaders to consult on three extremely responsible issues. Let's ask this fourth question, let's talk about tomorrow. The faction will support and there will be voices in the room. But really, you have to put a dot in this story. Because in these years, no one has been suspected, and in recent times even our leader has been invited by appropriate structures. Well, it's all gone by now. Indeed, parliamentary control here must say its word. I think tomorrow, if we were to get together, look both at the date of the commission's work, and by its personal composition and so forth, we could be more specific not to over-politicize the issue, but we should find the truth. Let's do it tomorrow.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u23	Yes, please, who's the block of Lithuania? Are you not speaking? None. Party of regions, please, now. Who's from the Party of Regions? Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u24	Dear colleagues, the opposition to creating such a commission is a personal surprise to me. Well, remember how many years we can, Ukraine, the entire Ukrainian community can carry this nasty burden? But in the end, with all the power structures in hand, all the ones with the opportunity to question anyone, did we once deny that any of the Ukrainian national deputies would give their explanations to the investigators? Not one! None refused to do so. Therefore, we must finish. start and complete such an investigation. As far as I'm concerned. By committee members, but wait, but here the Ukrainian national deputies, let me put it this way, young people, new ones, they haven't said their position yet, they were still there. One Soviet who was the chairman of the commission, who failed to complete his work. What might be the suspicions here? A commission like that needs to be created and a dot.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u25	The Communist faction, please. Who's going to perform? Do you refuse to speak? Oh, no? Adam Martinyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u26	Dear colleagues! You know that this is a constitutional norm, and there is absolutely no problem in creating a commission, because any of the two major factions can do that, because it only takes 150 votes for this to happen to Parliament. That's the first one. Second, as a member of the committee, and on the pro-provision committee on the Rules, we considered this issue, a commission that was created without breaking the legislation, without violating the legislation. So I don't see any problems here, no reason not to vote on these issues. The other thing that we're getting to is this situation, the honourable colleagues, that at least in our faction, I think there's no more members on board in the Lithuanian Block because we're creating on a commission every day. And the most important problem is: please remember the reports of all the committees. What benefit is there from these reports? And did they give anything? That's the problem. And to create, let's vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u27	Dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts. May I have your attention, please? My colleague Karpuk supports my desire and call for understanding. Unfortunately, or fortunately, I don't know what the term here is, today the faction that has 150 people is always voting, no matter how much we call for understanding or confrontation. That's the first one. The other one. In terms of terms. By law, before the Rules, the commission can operate by law a year and a half later. As for the candidature for approval, I would now ask that these candidatures be, because if there are no candidates, we will have no basis for putting them to the vote. As for the offer of John Grigorovich Kirilenko, consider tomorrow, April 1, on a beautiful day like this, also an offer. But again, Ivan Grigorovich, I'm coming out of it today and tomorrow, as if there were 30 or 70 people there, 150 voices there. That's why I would ask in this way. The initiators, please match the names, please name them and we'll put the names of these people to the vote. Please. Just so the faction signs it, they're delegating to you. Shufrek, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u28	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. I am absolutely convinced that the law on the report will be maintained in six months and the report is likely to be sooner and, hopefully, before the start of the presidential campaign. As for the names of the representatives of the “Our Ukraine” Block, they gave their representatives – Hennaday Hennadiovich Moskal and Alexander Alexandrovich Omelchenko. The faction manager here can confirm. The commission is complete and can be put to the vote as I ask. Thank you. We have to make up our minds on this. I don't think there's any point in stretching it and making a platter for speculation today either.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u29	Mikola Martinenko, please. Is there a Mikola Martinenko? Mikola Volodymyrovich, are these candidates in agreement? Agreed. Dear colleagues! After I'm told it's all agreed, let's do it that way.? Please turn on the microphone. Let's do this, because today and tomorrow we're just going to be pedaling on this. Kirilenko microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u30	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! We have a replacement for Taran-Teren Victor Vasilovich, Good Eugene Dmitrovitch, Doctor. All of it. This is our replacement offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u31	Dear colleagues! So I'm going to read you the composition of the commission. Please, Kirilenko microphone, please. Viacheslav Kirilenko microphone
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u32	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “For Ukraine” MP. Honorable Colleagues and Honorable Voters! We understand, of course, that there will be a vote now and that this Temporary Investigation Commission will be formed, but I would like to report that the parliamentary group “For Ukraine” as well as a number of other factions of the faction the larger half of the faction “NU-NS” did not consider, support or decide on the participation of our representatives in the work of this commission. Therefore, I am at risk of stating that in this connection the commission will be composed of only those national deputies who are personally interested in proving that there was no poisoning of President Yushchenko's candidate. And this is not the work of the Interim Follow-up Commission, but the execution of the political order before the presidential election. In view of this, I propose to postpone consideration of this issue, to discuss in all factions, to make consolidated decisions. And if a commission is to be set up, ensure that there are at least a few people who are set up to investigate objectively rather than carry out political orders.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u33	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I generally share the opinion of Viacheslav Kirilenko. At the same time, for one minute, let's figure it out, or we'll invite your group to the Conciliation Council, or then you don't express your particular point of view. Because yesterday at the Conciliation Council, a decision was made on Wednesday first to consider the bill. It's getting hot today, but I understand we're having a conversation today, there's going to be a precedent, and tomorrow we're going to talk about it the day after tomorrow. But 150, a respected colleague, votes are, unfortunately, or fortunately, a mere statement. So if you've already made a decision and you've got two people on board, then vote once, so that they don't pull this problem and impose political passions, I understand that it's going to be a way out of the situation, so that you and I don't want to vote for it. So let's stop this conversation once, and the composition of the commission before you is, instead of Taran-Teren Viktor Vasilovich Dobrjak, from the faction “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” proposed by the faction Hennadia Moskal and Alexander Omelchenko. And I'm proposing to rule out the sixth point where material security is involved. In view of the decision made yesterday at the Conciliation Council, the numbering was adjusted accordingly. What? Dear colleagues! I'm asking you to take care of each other! Taking into account the appropriate names that I said: "Good instead of Taran-Terrena from the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" by Gennady Moskal, Alexander Omelchenko. The deletion of paragraph six, which deals with material and technical security, corresponding to the renumbering of the following items, I'm voting on the adoption of draft regulation 4264. [[16:36:10]] For 244 Decision taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 173, "Timoshenko Yuli Block" - 42, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" – 2, Communist faction – 27, "Litvina Block" - 0. A draft Act amending article 14 of the Ukrainian Law on Service in Local Self-Government is being announced for consideration. Registration number 3263. The rapporteur is the head of the Department of Public Service, Motrenko Timofi Valentinovich. The Coroner is the head of the Committee's Subcommittee on State Building and Local Self-Government, Triduk Mikola Fedorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u34	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! First of all, I want to thank you for voting on Bill 3080 and for your support. Secondly, this bill, which is now being drafted, is in touch with the previous 3240, which has been discussed, but it does not even address future issues, but concerns relevant issues of settlement of the status and wages of people already working in the district councils. In particular, Zaporozhye, Lviv, Mikolai, Odessa, Sumi, Gorlovka, Makyivka, Mariupol. Today, there are real people who work as executive heads but are assigned to the same category, unfortunately to which they are assigned, to the fifth. This is about bringing these leaders, in terms of the amount of work they are doing and the complexity of the questions and tasks to the fourth category, which is absolutely real, supporting them, reflecting their real contribution to the work and, in our view, raising the status of the executive organs. Not one word of the conflict term “zonal administration ” is spoken of here. We're talking about executive committees. According to Kabmin, this draft law will allow the question of the relationship of the status of district administrators as executive bodies of councils with district divisions and will allow those appointed to these offices to fully exercise their rights as guaranteed by the law on service in local governments. Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u35	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Committee position. The head of the Mikola Fedorovich Trajduk subcommittee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u36	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government reviewed at its meeting the draft Ukrainian law, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which is proposed to assign the posts of directors of city councils, cities with district divisions formed in the areas of cities to the fourth category of positions in local governments. In support of the need to remove gaps in the regulation of the legal status of existing positions in local self-government authorities, while expressing some comments to the authors, the Committee unanimously decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Act amending article 114 of the Ukrainian Law on Service in Local Government Authorities, which was introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers following its first reading, to adopt as a basis and to entrust the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine with the matter of State Building and Local Self-Government to prepare it for second reading. It should be said that the Committee on Legal Policy, as well as the Committee on Rules and MPs, and the provision of the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, have also reached positive conclusions. At the same time, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority considers it appropriate to reject the bill as a result of the first reading of the bill. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u37	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, there is a need to discuss, if any, sign up. It's a recording. Please put the name of the national MPs on the board. National Deputy Bodnar. Please turn on the microphone. It's a faction of the Yulia Tymoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u38	Thank you. The faction has decided to support this bill, although I personally have doubts about its qualifications, because I suspect it needs financial justification enough, because there will be financial costs if we move, take the individuals to a particular category, to a fourth, and so? So, I think the committee should work with the budget committee as soon as this law is finally in force. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u39	Dear colleagues, the committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis, no other proposals have been made. The proposal for a committee to adopt is therefore put to the vote on the basis of the draft Law amending article 14 of the Ukrainian Law on Service in Local Self-Government.” Please vote. Based on the base. [[16:41:57]] For 404 Decision taken. How about the Constitution now? For 404. Decision taken. The draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on protection of cultural heritage, Registration number 3190, Reporter, First Deputy Minister of Culture and Tourism, Kornienko Vladislav Viktorovic, co-rapporteur, Head of the Committee on Legal Protection of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u40	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The proposed draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian laws on protection of cultural heritage provides, first of all, for amendments to nine laws: the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences, Criminal, Land, Civil Codes of Ukraine, Investment Act, Business Income Taxation, Museums and Museums, Protection of Cultural Heritage and Protection of Archaeological Heritage. The bill is aimed at improving the principles of the activities of historical and cultural reserves, strengthening their protection regime, increasing responsibility for violations of cultural heritage legislation, and ensuring compliance with Ukraine's international obligations to preserve an inheritance, eliminating conflicts between cultural heritage laws and civil land legislation. Ladies and gentlemen, in a two - minute speech, it is quite difficult to convince the need for the law to be adopted. I just wanted to point out that making changes to nine laws today is primarily among all the tasks that I have just listed is increasing the responsibility for breaking the law. And it is in the scientific and expert conclusion of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority that it is crucial that the draft law is too much of a responsibility plan. As a representative of the central executive body, which was created with the aim of implementing state policy in the area of inheritance protection, based on the situation in which an inheritance is present today, I appeal to, support, to take as a basis the prescribed bill and.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u41	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u42	take into account all the comments made by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration during its consideration in the next reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u43	Vladimir Romanovich, please make a decision by the committee on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u44	Vladimir Moisik, MP “For Ukraine!” Dear Head, honourable fellow members of the National Deputies, the Committee for the Legislative Security of the Law is designated as the chief, based on the fact that the authors were first placed to amend the Criminal Code and the Code of Administrative Offences, which provide for increased responsibility for crimes in the area of protection of cultural heritage. It's about, in particular, combating what's called black archaeology. And the committee unanimously supported that part of the law that touches the subject of our knowledge. Another committee supported changes to the nine laws proposed by the bill on matters of spirituality and culture. And so we ask, as the Main Committee, today to be the basis for the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u45	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues, there is a problem in discussing this bill. If you do, please sign up, if you don't, we'll vote. A recording of the performance is being made. Please put the names of the people's deputies on the board. Sidelnik National Deputy, Timoshenko Yulia Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u46	Seater, Yulia Timoshenko. Please pass the word to Yavorivsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u47	Vladimir Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u48	Dear colleagues, honourable voters, in general, this law could be entirely part of the knowledge of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, but since it considers a system of responsibility and punishment, it has been considered by another committee. This is how our history, our Ukrainian destiny, has been, in fact, a lot of those high Cossack graves have been destroyed a long time ago; what has happened today is that black archaeologists have actually unearthed almost everything: both Hersones and the Stone Grave and so on. And I would like to say that, of course, in the 1990s, when laws were passed and laws were passed to protect cultural heritage, they were, of course, both progressive and normal, and they were not to be blamed by the authors. However, life, I say again, has brought very real concrete adjustments to many of these bills. This also applies to the Earth Code, when today, in fact, the same Hortician, today we do not have very clear borders for this Ukrainian sanctuary when Horticia is settled, which today is unable to evict, because the city council does not have to give people housing. The problem is, of course, enough. And the fact that this bill was introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers, first of all, it makes it worse, I emphasize this, responsibility, and for the first time, maybe I want to make a note to our expert office, the scientific expert, where they accuse the Cabinet of Ministers of being too detailed. I'm convinced that our laws, many of them, are flawed by the fact that they're not detailed, that there's always some gulp that, when it comes to a particular life episode, you can treat it both like that, and so on, and so on, and so on and so forth. That's why I think the detail here is really very and very appropriate. That's why I think that for the second reading, I support first Deputy Minister Korneyenk, for the second reading, I'm convinced that we need to make it even worse, because we have a lot more.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u49	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u50	Because in these previous laws, we have a ridiculous punishment: 28, 30, 40 bracelets for swinging at a national shrine at which there is no price. As a result, we ask that the bill be voted on in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u51	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania” faction. Prepare Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u52	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! You know, this bill would be worth voting for if, in addition to everything else, there was only one norm in it. I would like to cite this norm, which is the addition of article 298 of the Criminal Code: destruction, destruction, or damage to monuments, objects of cultural heritage, and arbitrary search on archaeological sites. The position proposed by the legislator is to criminalize the article. Our scientific expertise says that this is an offence that is not subject to such strict responsibility. And I want to ask you a different question. Well, you know, when there's bullying, petty bullying, we think it's a criminal responsibility. When destroyed by “black” archaeologists and those officials who cover them, who buy them in every flea market, and so on, objects of “black” archaeology, it is not considered criminal responsibility. It's nothing. But this will never again be the acquisition of the people, as it should be. It's destroyed, it's in private collections, then it's shown to someone by these private collections, but who cares. It seems to me that this is a very correct norm, and that what goes to the detriment of the community, the common public interest, must be punished, including in a criminal way. And one more moment. I think, really, like Vladimir Yavorowski, it's not a negative, it's a positive that there's an attempt to systematically learn and resolve this problem. Look, here we go. Amendments to the Code of Administrative Violations, the Criminal Code, the Code of Lands, the Act of Ukraine on Protection of Cultural Heritage, the Civil Code of Ukraine, the Act on Protection of Archaeological Heritage. Perhaps this should be the case in law-making work to regulate one or the other rather than to make separate words “changes to change”. I think we can vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u53	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u54	You can vote in favour of this bill because the black archaeologists and their patrons. They need to be put in place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u55	Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u56	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear National Deputies! So it happened that today, several times a day, deputies from this rostrum have been criticized by the conclusion of the Scientific and Experimental Authority. So I've looked at that, and now on page 10, there are seven performers. Seven expert performers! Vladimir Mikhailovich, is there any question of what to talk about now with the Science and Experimental Authority? Yes, because they ask the question and the general conclusion that this law should be properly sent for further work. And I agree with my colleague, Oleg Zarubinski, that the bill is well written. Basically, if it were accepted and there were these changes made to the Ukrainian Earth Code, we today would not have destroyed our historical values for us, for Christians. [[on the composition of historical and cultural land]] I'm talking about this house in Gruszewski, 9a and that house that comes out of the bank with the silent consent of the administration, or the Secretariat, or the President's office. And I don't quite agree that's what the changes to the Criminal Code are supposed to sound like. And here I am asking the Committee on Law Enforcement to present more demands than I have heard in the speech. But what changes are made to a number of articles and changes the understandable apparatus, including the Archaeological Heritage Protection Act, which gives a completely different definition of the term archaeological heritage, archaeological exploration and so on, I would at least ask the minister today to report on culture and tourism, and.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u57	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u58	Thank the drafters of the bill for their complex approach, because we have a government today to make changes to a paragraph. And here's an attempt to see it in a complex way: we've got the problem, and that's how we solve it. And that's how the Supreme Council should do it. I ask everyone to support this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u59	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. I would just like to ask my fellow nationals not to seek an enemy in the person of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It's quite obvious that the Supreme Council of Ukraine is making the final decision, and the Scientific and Experimental Authority is making recommendations and conclusions. We must look and compare with our personal vision. And I'm going to remind you when this bill was introduced by the government. Look, please, it was September of last year. Dear colleagues, the committee proposes to adopt a draft law, registration number 3190, amending some Ukrainian legislation on the protection of cultural heritage. I'm putting this motion to a vote. Please vote. [[16:55:46]] For 380 Decision taken. Thank you. The draft Recognition Act has been announced for consideration in such a way that it has become invalid, the Ukrainian Act "On the Control of Payment of the Congregation for Compulsory State Pension Insurance and the Congregation for Compulsory Social Insurance". Reporter – Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denisova Ludmila Leontiyevna, co-rapporteur – Head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons Suškevich Valeriy Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u60	Honorable Volodymira Mikhailovich, respected colleagues, distinguished national deputies, was assigned to the public tax congregations by 2004 for compulsory state pension insurance and compulsory social insurance. To exercise control over these congregations, in 1999 a law was passed that placed these functions on the bodies of the Pension Fund of Ukraine and on the Social Insurance Fund. Following the adoption of Ukraine’s legislation on compulsory government pension insurance and compulsory public social insurance in connection with temporary loss of employment and respectable expenses, contributions have been made to these types of insurance that are not part of the taxation system. Individual social insurance laws will address it in a comprehensive manner. Measures related to State supervision and control in the area of compulsory pension insurance and social insurance are regulated. In this regard, it was necessary to bring legislation into line with the laws adopted, in contrast with the law of Ukraine, on the enforcement of the congregation’s payment for compulsory state pension insurance and the congregation for compulsory social insurance. Please support, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u61	Thank you. Valeriy Mihajlovich Suškević, microphone, please turn on.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u62	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, speaking of pension laws today, I can't help but look at the situation where we've been actively wasting our time today, discussing a special temporary commission of inquiry for the poisoning of the President. And they didn't, but respected colleagues, even the desire to consider the two pension laws that regulated one of them, the price of insurance. Instead of one percent in one year of retirement, 1.35, it has to be done, it's not in the law. We didn't do it. We didn't adopt a bill today, and we didn't even want to consider bills that regulate the support of a person who looks after the sick and disabled of the first group, the elderly, to provide, improve his pension insurance, pension insurance. Today, we have simply not shown a desire to consider pension laws that make up 2 billion and 200 million dollars of the U.S. Pension Fund. I repeat, but we have been actively discussing a special commission of inquiry for the poisoning of the President. That's what I'm looking at before they say, actually, about the bill. And the bill that we're looking at right now, 3121, refers to a very simple situation, it's technical, it predicts that really those norms that don't work, that have lost validity and relevance, because today we've switched to insurance principles. And this law that was passed in 99th year, it just doesn't work today. In this connection, the committee proposed to support the government and to adopt this technical bill, which had lost, practically, relevance, and accepted it as a foundation and as a whole. The main scientific and expert office believes that this bill can be adopted on a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u63	And in general, right? Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u64	And generally as a law. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u65	Dear colleagues, do we need to discuss this bill? Please sign in. All right, we're doing a recording. Please put the names of the people's deputies on the board. Jaroslav Suhi and then Peter Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u66	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I appreciate our time. And you know, always, as possible, we're trying, the more this bill, it's really technical and you could not discuss it, it needs to be supported in the first reading and in general without problems. But if it hadn't been for the speech of honorary colleague Valeri Mikhailovich. Look, you're the majority. You have a newly created very democratic coalition. Who prevents you from starting your retirement reform in 2005? Level two or level three is no step. Neither the accumulated voluntary nor the accrual obligation — everything stands still. You're calling us today to patch the next holes in the pension system. Ladies and gentlemen, wait, I hear and see on TV every day what you're saying: we're fine, we're fine, we're fine, we're paying our pensions, we're paying our bills. You guys stop bothering people! If this is normal in retirement, what should we talk about today? We need to say today that we may need unpopular reform, but we need to take steps to resolve, start a stagnant, retirement reform that was halted in 2005, when someone very much wanted to please pensioners and become involved in a single component of the solidarity pension system, namely: a minimum pension. That pension doesn't just depend on the minimum. The social protection of our people today seems ridiculous, because worldwide pension payments are the reward of the state, the reward of human society for young people. We have pension benefits -- death, disaster, poverty, not to starve to death. Nobody needs such a pension system and needs to continue to reform it comprehensively, systematically, and comprehensively, rather than treating it hotly every time with all kinds of bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u67	Thank you. Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, Communist faction
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u68	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, perhaps by considering a draft law submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, may not have supported it properly, but there is another view of the problem. The point is that any law and this non-exclusion is part of systemic legislation. And so when there is no harm in it, there may be no point in undoing it, since it has played a part in the formation of a financial resource in its own time. But to a greater extent, I took the word today than my previous colleague, responding to the speech of the distinguished Valery Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues! There is information that two bills submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine as anti-crisis have not been considered. But, dear fellows, let's stop fooling each other in the end. What do I mean? On the one hand, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine demonstrates absolute confidence that the Pension Fund budget will be normal and normal by the end of the year. The management of the Pension Fund claims that the contributions come in excess of the established plan, that is, everything is perfect, and in the meantime, we have bills one by one that require money for them to come into the pension fund's budget. Two weeks ago they tried to get six billion dollars out of the pensioners' pockets, it didn't work out, now let's take the money to the pension fund from small and medium-sized businesses. I repeat, let's not cheat each other and speak honestly, there's a problem in the Pension Fund budget, so we have to go out and honestly, there's a problem, let's work it out together. And no problem, so let's not do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u69	Please, Suškevich, a replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u70	Dear colleagues! I have great respect for my fellow socialists in other factions, but I repeat what we have done today, we have even systematically refused today, even to include these bills in the agenda and to discuss them. I repeat, for the first time in law, we decided to accept the price of an insurance internship instead of one percent of a 1.35. If anyone tells a social worker who's sitting in the hall that it's bad for a pensioner, let them talk about it. The point is that in one year, a pensioner receives one percent of his internship, and the calculation of his pensions should be worse than the one-thirty-thirty-thirty-thirty-thirty-thirty-thirty-thirty-thirty-thirty-thirty-thirty-thirty-thirty-thirty-thirty-thirty-thirty-thirty-thirty-thirty-twenty-t. Is that what we were talking about? No, we refused even to consider it, we refused to consider other points that are relevant in these two bills. And we also refused to support those who work on the sole tax and those who work.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u71	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the review of the draft Law, registration number 3121, has been completed. I'll put the proposal to the vote first as a basis, and then, if there's no objection, we'll make a positive decision as a whole. A draft law on recognition is put to the vote in such a way that the Ukrainian Act on the Enforcement of Congregation Payment Controls on Compulsory State Pension Insurance and the Congregation on Compulsory Social Insurance for Acceptance as a Basis. Please vote. [[17:06:43]] For 347 We took it as a foundation. Dear colleagues, now if there is no objection, the vote is based on the committee's proposal to adopt it in a second reading, in general, by adopting it as a law. Registration 3121. Please vote. [[17:07:17]] For 337 The law is passed. The Draft Law on Amendments to the Customs Code of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on the manner in which customs services are carried out]] Registration number 3014. The rapporteur is Vice-Minister of Finance, Half-Military Mikolayovich, co-rapporteur, head of the Tax and Customs Policy Committee, Terjehin Sergey Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u72	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! The draft Ukrainian Law, which is under consideration by you today, has been developed by the Ukrainian State Customs Service to improve the order of duty. The preparation of the project is based on the need to improve the effectiveness of Ukrainian customs policy. The order and conditions of acceptance to the customs authorities are governed by articles 410, 412 of the Ukrainian Customs Code. The project is intended to introduce to article 412 of the Code amendments that provide for the acceptance of customs authorities, their substitutes, other heads of staff, officers of departments carrying out customs control and customs clearance of goods, means of transport moving across the customs border of Ukraine on a contractual basis. According to part three of article 21 of the Ukrainian Labour Code, the contract is a special form of a contract of employment in which the duration of the contract, rights and obligations, the responsibility of the parties, including the material security conditions of the organization of work, the terms of termination of the contract, including the time limit, may be established by agreement of the parties. To our conviction, the negative conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority on this bill is based solely on an assumption that is insufficiently justified. Meanwhile, the contractual form of public service is a established world practice. Such a form promotes trust between the employer and the employee, and the terms of the contract can contribute to the protection of employees, even more than legislative standards. The contract, as a special form of employment contract, should encourage the creation of conditions for the identification of the employee's initiative and autonomy, taking into account his individual skills and professional skills, his legal and social protection. Adoption of the proposed bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u73	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u74	The government asks that the bill be supported in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u75	Thank you. Please, the head of the committee. Constantine Bondarev, please, from the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u76	Thank you. The Honourable Chairman, Honorary Fellows, Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Tax and Customs Policy at its meeting on 9 September 2008, reviewed the draft law submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine amending the Customs Code of Ukraine to improve the order of duty. The bill aims to improve the procedure for the conduct of the public service in the customs authorities, as well as to improve the effectiveness of the activities of customs authorities, their deputies, other officials who carry out customs control and customs clearance of goods as well as of means of transport moving across the customs border of Ukraine. The project is designed to amend articles 410 and 412 of the Customs Code, as well as the drafting of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine Decision on the arrangements for the conclusion of a contract for admission to the service of the customs authorities, as well as their representatives, as well as the heads and other staff of departments who carry out customs control and customs clearance of goods, means of transport moving across the customs border of Ukraine. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in its conclusion of 8 September 2008 does not support the legislative proposal, but at the meeting of the committee of the Ukrainian National Deputies, the members of the committee did not make any comments to the bill and it was decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law amending the Ukrainian Customs Code to improve the procedure for the conduct of the customs office of the Ministers of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u77	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for the bill. A recording of the performance is being made. Please put the names of the people's deputies on the board. Mikhailo Chechetov, please, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u78	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies, is proposed to introduce a contractual form of acceptance into the service of customs officials, their deputies, as well as managers and other departmental staff, who directly control and process the goods of vehicles moving across the customs border of Ukraine. The legislative proposal is not in line with one of the fundamental principles of the public service, the kind of service in the customs authorities, which is the principle of its stability, the essence of which is the immediacy of the appointment of public officials to the respective functions and the independence of the public service corps from changing the political direction of the public authorities. Therefore, the termination of the public service should take place only in the cases provided for by law, which precludes the release of a civil servant on political and other subjective grounds and motives. The introduction into force of a legislative proposal whereby admission to the service of the customs authorities, their deputies, as well as the directors and other staff of the units directly responsible for the control and customs of goods, means of transport moving across the customs border of Ukraine are carried out by contract, the arrangement of which is established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine may result in a narrowing of the existing rights of customs officials which do not comply with part three of article 22 of the Constitution of Ukraine, by which the content and scope of existing rights and freedoms cannot be reduced when new laws are adopted or amended. The faction of the Party of the Regions proposes to reject this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u79	Thank you. Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u80	Dear colleagues, it is difficult to find an explanation for the existence of such a bill. Well, it doesn't go into the head of who's got that idea, and I'm looking, I'm sure there's still the signature of the previous Head of State Customs that's standing there, and you can see the goal of picking up and painting the logs of the heads of these customs as you wish for the head of the state apparatus. If I am not mistaken, the Customs Service refers to the sphere of government service. Government officials do not work on a contract, but on the basis of the Law on State Service. If we enter a contract for this category of civil servants, let's start contracts with the national deputies. Let us also select or appoint, release, transfer, and so forth by contract. This is a novel that marvels at its illiteracy. Well, customs in their interests, the head of customs was able to understand why he was proposing such a bill. But where was the Cabinet of Ministers, which registers, at a meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers, this bill and submits it from a college body to the Supreme Council. There are no lawyers in the Cabinet of Ministers who have read the Constitution for once in their lives — the basic law? Moreover, there is a minister of justice who tells everyone and everything how to live by the laws and the Constitution. He must have been absent from this Cabinet meeting. How can one of the components of the public service be made contractors? Then let's write in the Constitution that all government officials are contractors. We already made a contractual army with you, a year ago we were supposed to do, now we're on duty. Tomorrow, you see, let's take the rest of us for the Cabinet of Ministers on a contractual basis to form. Well, let's not make people laugh and make laws that don't have anything legal. constitutional grounds.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u81	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u82	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Ladies and gentlemen, note that the bill was introduced on July 25, 2008. This was at a time when Mr. Horoshkovsky had already changed customs duties twice. People just got out of the state once, then they missed them around, then they reorganized the second time. What's wrong with that? It's not normal. So, dear friends, I know the status of many customs in Ukraine, both in the West and in the East, and in the South, and I say that this bill is being mistakenly tabled by the government today. I don't know why he was here. I agree with the arguments that have now been made, because this is a clear violation of article 22 of the Constitution of Ukraine, and this is actually a recognition that customs are somehow not people or somehow not public officials like others. They are the same government officials, and they are subject to the same law and guarantees. I will vote against this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u83	Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. The committee's proposal is to take it as a basis and generally as a law. The Science and Experimental Authority recommends not to support this legislative initiative. Now, your honors, please prepare for the vote. The proposal for a committee to adopt a draft law amending the Ukrainian Customs Code, registration number 3014, is put to the vote. [[on the manner in which customs services are carried out]] Please vote. [[17:18:42]] For-182 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on a second motion for re-reading the draft law, registration number 3014. Let's figure it out. [[17:19:09]] For-191 The decision is not taken, the bill is rejected. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on the improvement of the State registration mechanism for the cessation of shareholders, registration number 2260, is being announced for consideration. The rapporteur is the head of the State Commission of Securities and Stock Market Baluk Anatoly Ivanovich. Correspondent is a member of the Committee on Industrial, Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u84	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished national deputies, is proposed for your consideration by the draft Ukrainian Act amending certain Ukrainian laws to improve the mechanism for the state registration of the cessation of shareholders. The main purpose of this bill is to settle the issue of the registration of legal persons who have de facto ceased their activities and the submission of a corresponding entry into the Single State Register of Legal Persons and of natural persons who are entrepreneurs of their termination, as well as to improve the order of termination of legal persons who are issuers of securities. However, the changes proposed by the bill concern only shareholders who do not actually do business. So, according to our data, on March 1st, the number of shareholders is over 30,000 500. In doing so, it is important to note that in the previous year, about 12,000 500 shareholders were provided with regular information before the commission. Thus, by drawing conclusions from the information received, about 50 percent of shareholders do not regularly provide information about the activities of a company that is provided by legislation. In addition, the practice of shareholder associations often involves cases of nonconvocation over a long period of time by the general shareholders ’ congregations, regardless of the requirement for legislation regarding the obligation to convene general shareholders each year. It should be noted that, according to current legislation, general shareholders’ congregations are a higher body of shareholders, whose competence is to deal with the underlying issues of shareholders’ activities, some of which refer to the exclusive competence of the general assembly and cannot be resolved by other bodies. For example, more than 10,000. In 2007, only 5,864 associations were held in open stock companies. Thus, nearly 50 percent of open stock companies do not hold general shareholders for a long time. Failure to comply with the stated requirements of legislation regarding the obligation to disclose regular information on shareholder activities.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u85	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u86	and the annual convening of the general meeting of shareholders resulted in a gross violation of the rights of investors. In view of the above, there is an urgent need for effective rules for infringements of investor rights. The bill is supported by the Chief Scientific and Legal Authority and is proposed to be adopted in the first reading. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u87	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Valery Grigorovich, please make the decision of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u88	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, at its meeting on April 16, eighth year, considered a bill by Ukraine to amend certain laws of Ukraine on the improvement of the mechanism of state registration for the cessation of shareholders introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine at number 2260. The purpose of the bill is to settle important aspects of the procedure for the state registration of persons who are shareholders and issuers of securities, as well as the resolution of other issues relating to the mentioned field of activity. The scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concludes that the first reading of the bill can be adopted on the basis of the comments and suggestions made by most members of the committee. During the discussion of the bill, the members of the committee supported the need for its adoption, which would allow the legislative regulation of the liquidation of shareholders who did not work for several years on the decision of the court and would give the State Commission of Securities and Stock Market the right to appeal to the court for liquidation of shareholders. At the same time, members of the committee expressed concern about the bill on the cessation of stockholders’ associations in the absence of joint stock companies for two years or the failure of general shareholders to convene during the year, whose admissions could create artificial conditions for forced liquidation and effective shareholder associations. In view of the above, members of the committee proposed a draft Ukrainian Act to amend some of the Ukrainian laws on improving the mechanism for state registration for the cessation of stock companies.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u89	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u90	Please support the decisions of the committee members. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u91	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for the bill. Please put the names of the people's deputies on the board. Alexy Plotnikov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u92	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! I want to support this bill, it's really positive, it's aimed at resolving the issues of the registration of legal persons who have de facto ceased their activities, and putting the relevant entry into the register. The project extends a list of the grounds for the decision on the termination of a legal person. There are other positions, such as the corresponding changes made to Article 8 of the Law on State regulation of the Securities Market. [[concerning the granting of the right of the commission to appeal to the court for the cessation of shareholders in cases provided for by law]] And other positions that are certainly positive. And also, taking into account the positive conclusion of the Expert Analyst Authority, the relevant High Council Committee of Profiles. So there's a proposition: from the first reading, take it as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u93	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion of the draft Act amending some of Ukraine’s laws on improving the state registration mechanism for the cessation of shareholders has been completed. [[Registration number 2260]] The committee proposes to accept it as a basis. The committee's proposal to adopt a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws to improve the state registration mechanism for the cessation of shareholders is therefore put to the vote. Please vote. [[17:26:46]] For three hundred Decision taken. A draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine on the procedure for the issuance of documents of a permissive nature, registration number 2287, is being announced for consideration. The reporter is Baluk Anatoly Ivanovich. Correspondent is the head of the Committee on Finance and Banking's subcommittee, Alexander Ivanovich Klimenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u94	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! For your consideration, a draft Ukrainian law amending certain Ukrainian laws on the procedure for issuing documents of a permissive nature is proposed. This bill is aimed at organizing a permit system in the market for securities and arranging procedures for obtaining documents of a permissive nature for professional participants in the stock market, which will generally help improve the relationship between the State Commission and professional participants in the securities market. The bill defines the commission as the national regulator of the securities market, which issues documents of a permissive nature in the stock market. The bill lays down clear requirements for obtaining, deciding not to issue, or the grounds for cancelling documents of a permissive nature on the securities market in Ukraine by the State Commission on Securities and Stock Market. Requirements are laid down for the issuance of documents of a permissive nature, as well as for the withdrawal of wages from stock market entities for the issuance of permits. The bill provides for the issuance of two documents of a permissive nature: first, a certificate of the introduction of a joint investment institution into the ISI's Single State Register; and second, a permit for the placement of securities of Ukrainian issuers outside Ukraine. The issue of the first document provides that the investment fund has the right to carry out activities and to share investment only after obtaining a witness. The second document provides that a issuer of securities has the right to place part of its own securities outside Ukraine, provided that the Commission obtains the appropriate permission. I would like to point out that this bill is technical and is designed to meet the requirements of Part One, Article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on the Free System of Economic Activities with a view to securing the legislative level of issues currently regulated by the regulations of the State Commission on Securities and Stock Markets. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u95	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Alexander Ivanovich Klimenko, the committee's decision on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u96	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, honourable members of the people, the bill was considered by our Committee on Finance and Banking and was accepted, supported to be accepted as a basis for the first reading. The amendments proposed by the bill give rise to legislation on securities in accordance with the Ukrainian law on the free system of business, which is part of the first article of the Act. The urgency of adopting the bill, which is being considered, is due to the fact that part one of article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on Free Economic Activities took effect relatively recently, since October 5, 2007, a year from the date of publication of the Act in accordance with article 11, paragraph 1, of the Act. There are also changes to the joint investment institutions that Mr. Baluk has just reported. I would like to remind you that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted this bill last December by a constitutional majority. Some changes are now being made. It also needs to be noted that, in fact, all the norms and novels proposed by the bill are essentially technical. And that's why I would ask you to support it, the bill, in the first reading. I would also like to point out that the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority has some observations, but we don't think it's important to the Committee. And I also approve of this bill. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u97	Dear colleagues, please sign up for the performance. A recording of the performance is being made. On the board, please. National Deputy Arzhewitten, faction of "Our Ukraine People's Self-Defense."
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u98	Stanislaw Arzvetin, “For Ukraine” MP. The bill should be supported in the first reading, but for the second reading, it must be settled and the discussion concluded, yet who should approve the order of registration and the issuing of certificates — whether the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine or perhaps the commission. Some standards that conflict with the project itself are also needed. One part of the law provides for a 30-day deadline for extradition, another part of 45 days. There is also a need to resolve the issue of the abolition of administrative acts relating to securities transactions abroad. And it's more logical to refer these proposals to the basic law, for example, the Administrative Procedure Code. Appropriate suggestions are also included in the legal, chief legal, and so they must be taken into account in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u99	Thank you. Jaroslav Mikhailovich Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u100	Dear colleagues, I immediately apologize, perhaps not quite to the subject will be my speech, but I could not help but say today, because, like all of you, I went to this session room today with a special feeling of joy that we will finally see light at the end of the tunnel and give our long-suffering Ukrainian electorate the hope of a better life will be accepted by anti-crisis bills. That's all the luck that came out of it. More than the 20 bills passed by the government, even the President came to us, said something, as always, much, wisely, but it had nothing to do with overcoming the crisis. I want to ask the majority -- whether it's a coalition or not, believe me, I'm not getting angry -- so when in the end an anti-crisis package of bills is introduced into the session room? Dear colleagues, tomorrow Vladimir Mikhailovich will give us an assessment of how we worked out, how many bills were adopted in the first reading, in general, and so forth. We can say that these bills are anti-crisis, that at least they give people hope that we understand the nature of this crisis. What's the deal here for securities in New York and what's the price of electricity that's non-renewable is the closing down of metallurgical enterprises in Zaporozhye? I understand that maybe we should clean up these bills that are now being introduced so that there are no tails. But then I don't understand, we're standing on a path like this to keep the Supreme Council from allowing elections. I can't understand what the main thing is for us not to let the election run or find real ways out of the crisis? Need help from the opposition? But yes, there are no respectable colleagues. Either you are power, or we are power. If you, the authorities, have taken responsibility, I'd like to see and hear here, in the session room, specific real bills that give hope for a way out of the crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u101	Dear colleagues, the bill, registration number 2287, has been completed. There is a proposal for a committee to adopt this draft law, which I remind speakers was introduced more than a year ago to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We should have considered not blocking the rostrum. The proposal for a committee to adopt, therefore, is based on the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the procedure for the issuance of documents of a permissive nature. Registration number 2287. Please vote. [[17:35:20.]] For the 220. The decision is not taken. I'm voting for the re-reading of draft law number 2287. [[17:35:44]] For 229 Decision taken. A draft Law amending some of Ukraine’s mortgage laws is being announced for consideration. The reporter – Baluk Anatoly Ivanovich, co-reporter will also be Klimenko Alexander Ivanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u102	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! For your consideration, it is proposed to draft the Ukrainian Law amending some of the laws of Ukraine on mortgage bonds. The bill provides for amendments to article 13 of the law to the requirement not to take into account questionable mortgages and other assets to calculate the fragmentation of the normal mortgage bonds of the mortgage rate. The principle of the balance of mortgages with debt under normal mortgage bonds is clarified, according to which the income of the mortgage should exceed the amount of the issuer’s periodic payments at the rate of interest on normal mortgage bonds in each interest period. It is also proposed that article 15 of the law be supplemented in accordance with which the administrator will be able to monitor the current state of mortgage coverage, to keep the mortgage coverage register and to maintain the conditions for the replacement of mortgage assets or to include new mortgage assets in mortgage coverage through the auditors. Third. It is proposed that Article 27 of the Act be supplemented by a standard according to which the licensing conditions, including requirements for the size of statutory and own capital, of its definition, liquidity, qualification requirements for the managers of mortgages, are required under the terms of the contracts that are made during the introduction of the manager’s activities by mortgage coverage and other requirements and indicators that limit the risk of managers’ activities by mortgage coverage, may be established by the regulatory acts of the commission. In addition to this bill, it is proposed to systematize all standards relating to the introduction of temporary administration, the conduct of bankruptcy and the liquidation of the issuer of ordinary mortgage bonds in a single article. In connection with this bill, it is proposed that the Ukrainian law on mortgage bonds be supplemented by article 17 of the prime law. One that defines the characteristics in the case of a temporary administrative breach of bankruptcy and liquidation of the issuer of normal mortgage bonds. It is also proposed to amend Ukraine’s mortgage bond law, according to which mortgage mortgage checks may be carried out by an auditor through agreed procedures. At that.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u103	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u104	In this regard, and bearing in mind that the legal framework for increasing audit activity is governed by the Ukrainian Audit Act, the Act proposes that audiences and audit firms should be able to verify the appropriateness of mortgage coverage to the mortgage registers and to the requirements of the UK Mortgage Bond Act. The adoption of this law will contribute to the proper fulfilment of the issuer’s liabilities under mortgage bonds, the management of mortgage management functions, which will enhance the protection of the rights of mortgage owners. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u105	Thank you, Anatoly Ivanovich. Please take your place in a government bed. The report is by Klimenko Alexander Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u106	Thank you. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished national MPs, the honourable present, the bill was considered by the Committee on Finance and Banking on September 17, 2008. And I'm authorized on behalf of the committee to determine that this bill is as positive. First of all, it has a significant increase in investor protection, which is what is needed in times of financial crisis for investors who, first of all, could invest in the Ukrainian economy. The previous reporter has focused your attention very carefully on the main notable points of this bill, and I would like to point out that he is as a positive one, and the committee recommends that the Supreme Council approve him in the first reading. And I would also like to report that the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration is also expressing the idea of supporting it in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u107	Thank you! Have a seat, please. Let's sign up for a discussion. National MP Arjevetin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u108	Stanislav Arjewitin, group “For Ukraine”. The bill needs to be supported in the first reading and there are a lot of positives, and that's what the main rapporteurs have talked about, but for the second reading, the main disadvantage of this bill is that it doesn't comply with a number of existing standards in the mortgage bond bills today, the mortgage itself. Also, the bill does not clearly specify the duration of the presentation, such as the register of mortgage coverage by the administrator himself. The law does not specify cases of the conduct of the procedures themselves, and there are clearly no cases of conciliation when the commission initiates and many others. But the law in first reading needs to be upheld.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u109	Thank you. The discussion is over. I am voting on the adoption in the first reading of the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine on mortgage bonds. Registration number 2613. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:41:53]] For 211 The decision is not taken. There's a proposal for the people's deputies to re-read it, as far as I can see. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:42:18]] For 223 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. The draft Law on Amendments to Article 338 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, Registration No. 1049, reports Vladimir Romanovich Moysik.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u110	Vladimir Moisik, MP “For Ukraine!” The Honourable Chairman, Honorable Fellows of the People's Deputies, myself and Vice-President of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Mikola Tomenko, have prepared a bill to increase criminal responsibility for the abuse of the National Flag and other national symbols of Ukraine. I remind you that after the collapse of the Soviet Union, the first and officially blue-yellow strain was raised by the decision of the Kiev City Council in July 1990, and on September 4, 1991, a red-and-blue flag was raised above our premises next to the red-blue Soviet flag. We were moved to write this bill on April 29, 2008, when it was 90 years old from the date of the raising of Ukrainian flags over the Black Sea fleet in 1918. But this remarkable date, as you know, was obscured by the abuse of the State flag of Ukraine. The unfolded State flag was ripped out of the hands of the people and publicly submerged. The actions of the representatives of the Eurasian Union are no less well - known to young people who have committed defiant abuse of State symbols, including the flag on Goverle Mountain. We suggest that we step up responsibility and introduce alternative punishments in the form of deprivation of liberty for up to two years. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u111	Thank you, Vladimir Romanovich, sit down, please. Let's sign up for a discussion. Crnowil Taras Viacheslavovich, please. Wait a minute, please. I ask that we repeat the entry “for” and “against” so that there is no claim to the functioning of the system. Please, Taras Vjacheslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u112	Dear colleagues, national deputies, in support of the overall introduction of such changes and increased responsibility for abuses against State symbols, I would like to point out that the implementation of even the standard that exists today has a number of problems. Therefore, in addition to the formulations of the very type of responsibility and the strictness of responsibility, it is necessary to add details in the future, not necessarily now, but perhaps now, in general, to accept, but still to specify the very essence of responsibility. I would like to remind you, when this story was with the Jewish people, that my appeal to the head of the Ukrainian Security Service was the answer: “We have not found out, we have not established a direct abuse of State symbols”, although the abuse, ridicule of them even in the Internet system where they were placed, let us not, perhaps, in all reality, actual photographs from the scene are already a fact of abuse and contempt. So in my opinion, it will be necessary to make this change now, in the future, to return and specify the wording of the article itself.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u113	Pudov Boris Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u114	Pudov, Yulia Timoshenko Block. I'd like a word with you to pass on to Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u115	Dear colleagues, as one of the co-authors of this bill, I wanted to draw your attention to e that the idea of a colleague of Moses and my idea is to the next. In fact, during the last period, a number of organizations have emerged that specifically want to assert themselves because of the contempt and neglect of the symbols of the Ukrainian State, the symbols of the Ukrainian State, Ukraine as a state of its own. If we analyzed this case, it was a specialized and specially organized company in the Russian media, it was a company on the Internet that wanted to demonstrate that we, as a state, were unable to protect ourselves and our own dignity, because constantly these young people, who disrespected all of us, were stressed that we had no mechanisms to influence them and we could not put them in charge. I'm here to support Taras Chernobyl, which is obviously to think about a clearer formula for responsibility. But such a decision is, first of all, a clear sign that we are able to defend our symbols and our state and protect it with rigour and clarity. And I think that after that, maybe lawyers will tell us how at the level of the instrument and the mechanism to prove that such actions that have taken place in Ukraine in their own time will not go unpunished. So I'd like to support, and then I'd like to advise you to think about how at the level of the instrument, to bring this to a clear mechanism, so that the most important thing is not to allow the facts that have happened to young people who have tried to assert themselves by disrespecting the Ukrainian state and its symbols.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u116	Thank you. Please, one minute out of the vote. Stojko Ivan Mikhailovich of the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u117	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, of course, the bill is on time, although it is being accepted quite late. The blue and yellow flags are a symbol of Ukraine, one of the oldest signs of modern Europe and of the whole world that was still born in the days of the Galician and Volinian Principality of the 11th century. And so today we are talking not only about abuse but also about responsibility. What the Asians or the Jews did at Goverly or in Crimea, people who are no longer in the west, but Ukrainians, living in our country, are a disgrace. But not only should we talk today, there, for example, about two years, but we should strengthen our responsibility. In my opinion, we should now accept the first reading, and the second reading should be completed. I've asked for responsibility for abuse for up to five years at all. And those who have done this act should never hold public office. And, of course, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, which.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u118	Thank you. Please finish the last word.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u119	And those militias, for example, who observe these acts, should also be responsible, especially for criminal acts. So I propose and ask all of us, regardless of the color of the party flags, to support the Ukrainian symbols so that no one will ever attack our flag, our Hymn and our Ukrainian coat of arms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u120	Thank you. The discussion is over. I am voting on the adoption in the first reading of the draft Law amending article 338 of the Criminal Code, registration number 1049. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:50:51]] For 228 Decision taken. It's being announced. Just a minute. There is a proposal to adopt this bill as a whole. Is there a denial? There's a denial. The committee's proposal is to prepare the draft law for second reading. A draft law amending the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code, registration number 1308, is being announced. Report by Maruschenko Volodymyr Stanislavovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u121	Dear Lord Chairman, dear colleagues! The need to introduce the bill is due to the fact that, according to part five of article three of the Law on Freedom of Conscience and Religious Organizations, no one has the right to demand information from the clergy in connection with the confession of believers. Part three of the fifth article of the Law states that the State takes note of and respects the traditions and internal instructions of religious organizations if they do not conflict with the law in force. At the same time, the first part of article 69 of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code stipulates that the clergy may be questioned as witnesses for what they are entrusted with or are known for their professional activities if they are relieved of their duty to keep a professional secret to the person who has entrusted them with this information. This position is obviously contrary to the traditions and internal instructions of most religious organizations in Ukraine. Furthermore, article 69 of the Criminal Procedure Code does not specify the form, oral or written form in which the release of lawyers, notaries, physicians, psychologists, and clerics should take place. Thus, in view of the foregoing, there is a need for legal protection to keep the secret of confession and for a more precise regulation of the right to preserve the professional secret of the person concerned. The project proposes to amend part of article 69 of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code by stating in paragraph one that lawyers, notaries, doctors, psychologists cannot be questioned as witnesses for what they are entrusted with or are known for their professional activities if they are not exempt in writing from the obligation to keep a professional secret to the person who has entrusted them with this information. It is also proposed that part 1 of article 69 of the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine be supplemented by paragraph 6, stating that the clergy cannot be questioned as witnesses for the information they received during confession.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u122	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u123	The adoption of this bill will contribute to greater protection of the rights of citizens, particularly those involved in the criminal process, the elimination of differences between the various legislative acts of Ukraine and the greater protection of freedom of conscience in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u124	Thank you. Have a seat, please. The report is by Vladimir Mikolajovich Stretović.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u125	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Law Enforcement of Law Enforcement has considered the draft Ukrainian law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure on the Secret of Confession submitted by the People's MP Marouschenko. The bill proposes to amend article 69, part 1, paragraph 1, of the Criminal Procedure Code for the purpose of requiring a written form of permission from a person who has entrusted a lawyer or other expert in the field of law with the right to legal aid or notaryus, a doctor, a psychologist in carrying out their professional activities in the course of interrogation. In addition, the bill proposes to remove from the list of persons mentioned in this paragraph priests in order to make it impossible to divulge the mystery of confession. According to the author, the disclosure of the mystery of confession is a violation of the canon law. Such disclosures may lead to violations of the rights and legitimate interests of others, and it is therefore necessary to guarantee the secret of confession by means of legal means. The changes proposed in the draft to part one of article 69 of the Ukrainian Code of Civil Procedure concerning the questioning of the clergy reflect the same positions as those set out in article 51, paragraph 3, of the Ukrainian Civil Procedure Code, which does not require questioning as witnesses of the clergy about the information they have received in confession to the believers. The project does not use the word “faithfuls” because an unbeliever may confess to a minister who should not influence the possibility of the confession of the clergy. After reviewing the bill at its meeting, the committee decided to recommend it to the Supreme Council as a basis. Similarly, the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority maintains a similar view. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u126	Thank you. Is there a need to discuss? There's a need. Let's sign up, please. The evening plenary session will continue for 15 minutes. Miroshenko Yuri Romanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u127	Dear voters, dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. You know, I'm a little bit surprised that the obvious is, in my opinion, the question is causing us a discussion. Because it's essentially about removing the conflict between the two laws. One law that we have approved with you tells us that no one can ask the minister of information he received during confession. On the other hand, our criminal law is not an obstacle to similar, say, efforts by the investigator to obtain similar, similar information. If we're talking about pure form, I think it's our fault, because we've adopted two mutually exclusive laws. But there is also a moral component. Because all believers in Ukraine today, going to a priest, do not associate with a man, they communicate with a god whom they trust and atone for their perhaps unattractive acts. And the use of that information, I think, is also immoral. Considering that this bill includes fairly small changes, they are clear, concrete and I think they can now be adopted not only on a basis, but generally as a law. So, dear fellows, I propose to adopt this bill as a whole, as a law, and let it take effect. We will thus take into account the reputation of the Supreme Council in the eyes of believers and will generally show ourselves as a civilized state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u128	Stonewall Valery Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u129	If you don't mind, it's been a month. Thank you. Kamchatya, Yulia Timoshenko, Kharkiv district. Dear colleagues, I believe that a similar kind of discussion, which has, in principle, been resolved for centuries when the mystery of confession has been solved, has no meaning for discussion today. Just some want to take us away from the main problems of today. At an earlier meeting, the destructive actions of a certain part of the hall have resulted in the collapse of antichrist laws that our country, our electorate, is in great need of today. We are now discussing issues that have been solved by mankind for centuries, including the secret of confession. So I'm proposing similar kinds of laws that guide us. They're taking us to the side of the very needy problems that we can solve today, just not discuss. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u130	Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u131	Dear colleagues! The law carries and contains ambiguous standards. On the one hand, indeed, we can support the intrusion of not being drawn as a witness and not giving testimony to a minister if he has listened to confession. That can be agreed. But we can't agree that we include psychologists, doctors, and so on and so forth. That is, we extend the circle of persons who are entitled, by our law, to avoid giving a witness. So let's, as much as, indeed, the clergy, although there is also a possibility that if I went to give confession, and I wrote or gave, as it were, a document to the clergyman that I asked in the event of an investigation not to divulge the secret that I had told them, then the priest might not disclose it. But if a professed person does not have such a request, there may be various confessions, there may be various crimes, and so the clergyman may be able to help the investigation into the establishment of a sufficiently resonant crime. So what I'm suggesting here, really, is that what colleagues say is that laws conflict with each other, let's just accept it in the first reading, and we're going to take all the nuances into account, so that we don't rush right now, as they say, that the law is small, that we can accept it as a whole, that is, only in the first reading can we support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u132	The discussion is concluded and I am voting on the adoption of the draft law on amendments to the Criminal Procedure Code in the first reading. Registration number 1308. Please Identify [[18:01:47]] For three hundred Decision taken. A draft Law on Private Detective Activity is being announced for consideration. Registration number 2120. The report is Moisik Volodymir Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u133	Dear fellow national MPs! Vladimir Moisik, “For Ukraine” MP. Your opinion is a bill on private detective activity. Those of you in this room who were in the fourth vocation remember that the bill was tabled by other authors, even by a group of authors, but political events prevented it from being approved. I'm going to point out before we report the basics of the law that the entire civilized world went this way, private detectives, detective agencies are working both in Latin America and Europe and even in the countries of the former Soviet Union. Let me remind you that the Russian Federation passed the law on private detective activity back in 1992. And since then, two new editions of this law have been adopted. Our law also defines the legal principles of organization, detective activity, first and foremost, it is a private enterprise that is subject to compulsory licensing. The right to issue a licence for such activities will be vested in the competent authorities of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, which will exercise control over such activities. The law or draft law establishes requirements for those who engage in such activities, provides for what types of activities can be carried out by law, and special attention is given to the fact that detective agencies and private investigators will not have the right to search and search. So today there are a lot of detective agencies, private investigators, who are doing this. To check the ability to pay for the future.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u134	Complete, please, Vladimir.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u135	I still have two minutes from the committee. Others hire partners to test their mate’s conduct. Thus, private detective activity is being carried out in Ukraine. We suggest that it be placed on legitimate rails. And the Chief Research Administration supports the adoption of the project as a basis. And of course, since the law is new, it cannot meet the old laws and existing ones, it will work out and we will all become authors of the Ukrainian Law on Private Detective Activity together. The committee recommends that the first reading be supported. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u136	Vladimir Romanovich! As I understand it, the committee's co-rapporteur, Vladimir Stepanovich Malishev, gave you the right both on behalf of the copyright team and on behalf of the committee. Thank you! Have a seat, please. Is there a need to discuss the project? Yes. Please log in. National MP Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u137	Thank you, Reverend Alexander Volodymyrovich! I will vote in favour of this bill. I have only a rhetorical question to the author, one of the authors of Mr. Mopsik Volodymyr Romanović, who is respected by the former Supreme Court judge and so on. Dear Volodymyr Romanovich! Here you represent the law on detective activity. Well, detectives are an English word. Can you not find appropriate Ukrainian words in the Law of Ukraine? For example: “for search activity”, “for search activity”, which is not yet an activity. Well, I think it's in France, for example, for the use of foreign words that we fine, you know, and we put the English word on the level of law. If there are no substitutes, the question is different. So there's a proposal for a second reading or finding, or a new Ukrainian word that reflects the essence of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u138	Thank you, Oleg Valeriovich. The discussion is over. I'm voting for adoption in the first reading of the draft Private Detective Activity Act, registration number 2120, please identify yourself. [[6:07:12]] For the 220. There's a proposal by Vladimir Romanovich to re-read. Please vote. [[18:07:37]] For 221 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Comprehensive Reconstruction of Areas of the Out-of-date Housing Fund is being announced for consideration. Report to the First Deputy Minister for Housing and Utilities Lototic Orestes Bogdanovich, please. No reporter available. Coroner from the committee, please. Please. People's deputy Shkutak.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u139	Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Construction, Urban Development, Housing and Regional Development, held on 9 July 2008, discussed a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Comprehensive Reconstruction of Areas of the Old Housing Fund, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers. The bill foresees: a clearer definition of the social need for complex reconstruction of neighborhoods, microregions of an outdated housing fund; the possibility of deciding on a comprehensive reconstruction with the appropriate relocation of residents of residential buildings, provided that only a part of these residents can be relocated, in this case in the 60 per cent law; the removal of restrictions on the decommissioning of dwellings and their surfaces to make them fit. I think they can be complexly reconstructed. Other changes are aimed at bringing effective legislation into line with other Ukrainian laws on building activities. The main scientific and expert management, concluded on 2.06.2008, proposes to return the bill to the subject of the legislative initiative due to the inadequacy of certain provisions of the Constitution of Ukraine. The Legal Policy Committee, by letter of 23.05.2008, proposes to adopt the bill on the basis of further comments and suggestions on it. The Committee on Budget Issues noted that the adoption of the bill would have no impact on the income and expenditure of the budget. There were no findings from other committees. As a result of the discussion, the Committee on Construction, Construction, Housing and Regional Development decided to propose a bill to amend the Ukrainian Law on the Integrated Reconstruction of Areas.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u140	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u141	Provided that when preparing for consideration in the second reading of comments and proposals by the legislators, such as the main 60 - percent cancellation note, there should be only reconstruction with the full consent of all the inhabitants of the microregion or neighborhood. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u142	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Let's sign up for a discussion. Boris Mikolaiovich Pudov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u143	Pudov, Yulia Timoshenko, Secretary of the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing and Regional Policy. I'm proposing to my colleague the National Deputies to adopt this bill as a basis. This bill is long overdue. You know, we have an old fund in many cities that needs reconstruction. The survey of some of our neighbors shows that this problem is solved on the basis of a comprehensive approach, and when the state gives the necessary attention to the problem. So, colleagues, I ask you to support and accept this bill, which, if you start to do so, it will do a great job for millions of our citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u144	Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u145	Dear colleagues, honourable voters, are now trying to pass another lobbyist bill. I'm surprised the committee's profile, but it's not surprising because there's mostly builders sitting there who want to provide their construction firms and businesses with jobs. The territories are gone. Where to go? Take it away from the people. Think about it! The sacred right to property is being violated, which you are very protective of. Article 41 of the Constitution states that this cannot be done. You're saying in the bill, if 60 percent of the inhabitants of the micro-region or the house agreed that they had an outdated fund, the other 40 would not be asked and forced to move out. Is that right? Next. You're proposing in this bill, you're not offering it, you're not offering it, and who's going to issue the housing instead of the one you're being evicted from? The adoption of this bill is the new “eleita centrums”, only if you have the power of conscience and the courage to push the buttons for voting this anti-national law. You can't do that because once again, yes, you'll give the builders a bridge. Then. Another rule says that they may be subject to the notion of an “old fund” even those who do not refer to an old fund – living and non-living premises, but if they are located in an area to which an old fund is attached, it can be decided that it is also subject to reconstruction. Imagine, if we adopt this law, we're going to create incredible situations in cities where neighborhoods are forced to go, no one is going to take responsibility for giving the apartment to those who were evicted or evicted tens of miles from where they lived. It's a lobbyist law that will do nothing but harm to the people of our common people. I want to look at it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u146	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u147	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2007, you and I adopted the Law on the Comprehensive Reconstruction of neighbourhoods, microregions of an outdated housing fund. These standards were also debated, which were also laid down in this law. I would like to remind you that right now Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk referred to article 41 of the Constitution, and in particular to part five, where it is written that “the compulsory alienation of private property objects can only be applied as an exception, on the grounds of social necessity, on the basis of the order established by law, and on the condition that they are fully compensated. Are these the standards that are developing this norm of the 41st in this project? No, they're not here. Sixty percent will solve the issue. It's like we're going to define some other kind of purpose right now. That's why I'm not voting for this rule. And in general, I think we should have looked at the draft anti-crisis measures that have been introduced to Parliament, under the Prime Minister's signature, which have been blocked here on the basis of a clown called a council of one or two or a third. And then we were told that you could run the state, not look at these. And I insist that tomorrow we consider anti-crisis laws, not those that will deepen crises and conflicts. Because what's 40 percent moving away? This means that if 100 people live, 40 will be dissatisfied, and they will all come out and demand something. No need to deepen the crisis, let it be solved, and let it be recorded. I believe that this bill should be rejected and elaborated in accordance with article 41 of the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m1.u148	The discussion is over. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Comprehensive Reconstruction of Areas of the Out-of-date Housing Fund, registration number 2437. I'd like to make a statement. [[18:17:09]] For the five of us. The decision is not taken. There's an offer for re-reading. Please re-read the first reading, please identify yourself. [[18:17:37]] For-167 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. I declare the evening plenary session open. Next plenary session. I'm calling it closed. The next plenary meeting will begin tomorrow at 10 a.m.
