ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Please include the “Council” system. [[10:01:24]] There are 410 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The morning plenary session is open. Dear colleagues, today we have the birthday of three of our colleagues: Bondarenka Vladimir Dmitrovitch, Kovalova Julia Viktorovna and Olija Svetoslav Vasilovich. [[Applause]] Let us welcome them and wish them every success. Information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at plenary meetings on December 3, 2009. The 18-day agenda was considered, as a result of their consideration: 1 law and 3 decrees were passed, 5 bills and 2 draft decrees were adopted on the basis of which 1 draft decree was rejected; 4 laws were rejected on the basis of the President's proposals. Dear colleagues, today we have according to article 25 of the Rules 30 minutes to announce parliamentary inquiries. A request was received from the Ukrainian National Deputies: MICHELLA RUDEN to the President of Ukraine on the abolition of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine's "To Improve Forest Management". I'm betting on the vote in support of Michael Rudchenka's request. [[10:02:58]] For 1052 Query is not supported. Ruslan ZZULI to the President of Ukraine for support of the designation of shipbuilding workers. I would like to vote in favour of this request. [[10:03:22]] For 227 Supported. I'll bet you a vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:03:43]] For 259. The request is being sent. Jury SERBIN to the President of Ukraine on the inadequacy of the creation of the Grand Boar National Natural Park, according to President of Ukraine's decree on urgent measures to expand the network of national natural parks since 27 August 2008. I'll bet on the vote. [[10:04:14]] For 253 Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:04:33]] For 274 A request is being made. Groups of National Deputies to the President of Ukraine on the need for an immediate referral by President Viktor Yushchenk of Ukraine, who is personally responsible for the damage suffered by citizens and the Ukrainian banking system, to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the discharge of the head of the National Bank of Ukraine, Vladimir Stelmakh. [[CARMASINE, JAVORE AND OTHERS]] I would like to vote in favour of this request. [[10:05:10]] For-164 Request supported. I'm betting on the vote to send a request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:05:27]] For 155 The solution is not accepted, no query is sent. Valeria BARANOVA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the unjustified eviction from the rented premises of the Ukrainian Pension Fund in the Berdjansk Zaporozky region, which threatens the timely payment of pensions in the city of Berdjansk. Victor KORJA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the debt of salary payments to a number of schools in the Darnicki district of Kiev. VICTOR SINCHENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the economic relevance of the assignment of the cities of Opuchov and Ukraine of the Obukhiv region to the category of cities of regional importance. Victoria DEMJANČUK to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-implementation of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism of Ukraine Order of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine "On the State Historical and Memorial Reserve of Babin Jar". Vladimir CARPUCA to the first Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine for the 2010 renovation and reconstruction of the Lutsky Basic Medical College in Lutsk Volinsk. Mr. Vladimir DENILENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the unsatisfactory implementation of Cabinet of Ministers Decision No. 468 of 13 May 2009. Hennady ZADIRKA to the first Vice-Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Ministry of Transport and Liaison of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal actions of the Director of the State Enterprise "Illilitian Maritime Trade Port" Hennady Skvortsov. Gennady ZADIRKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Attorney General of Ukraine on the acquisition of a limited-liability agricultural company Nibulon 23 hectares of water and other illegal activities. Eugene KARJKOVA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the possible repair of the TB dispenser in Odessa. Igora SHAROVA to Prime Minister of Ukraine on strengthening control of the activities of scientific and methodological testing laboratories for food products containing genetically modified organisms and compliance with legislative requirements for food labelling. Igora KALETNIKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, First Deputy Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine for the criminalization of the head of South-West Railways, Alexia Krivopishina for systematic abuse of office. ZARUBINSK'S Oleg to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the illegal restriction of social benefits to Ukrainian citizens who retired before 1991 and the need to restore a fair level of pension insurance for them. Leonida LITWINOVA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for financing the completion of the boiler building in the city of Slavyansk. Mr. Alexander DONI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the neglect of the Deputy Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Natalia Bogasheva, for violations of the rule of law by the Federation of Parity Sports of Ukraine. OXANI BILOSIR to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the allocation of funds from the State Budget Reserve Fund of Ukraine in the amount of 42 thousand 171 bracelets needed to perform a surgical operation on the heart of the resident of the city of Rožište Volinsk region, disabled by the Mikoli Strichaluku group. Oleg TYCHENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Environmental Protection of Ukraine, Prosecutor-General of Ukraine, Head of the Kyiv District State Administration for the verification of violations of the current legislation of Ukraine, as set out in the address of citizens of the village of the town type Barišovka Kyiv region on illegal re-profiling of the Open Shareholder Society "Barisovska Milk Product" into a factory for the processing of plastic packaging and polymer waste. Ms. Alexander Šepeleva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the solution to the problem of the construction of the metropolis in Donetsk and the repayment of arrears for employees of Donetsksachtometroud. Helen BONDARENKO to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the cessation of illegal money struggles from participants in the all-U.S. Parachuting Sports competition. Ms. LOVČKINA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the unsatisfactory activities of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to strengthen the material and technical, financial base for the functioning and development of higher education institutions in Ukraine and to take urgent measures to preserve the teaching and scientific base of the Umman State Agrarian University. LITHUANIA’S Jury to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the adoption of the Ukrainian Cabinet’s decree of 25 November 2009 “To improve forest management”. Groups of National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the settlement by the Government of the purchase price of milk in rural people in the Chernigian region. [[COMARA, COOPER AND OTHERS]] Anatoly MATVIENKA to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, U.S. Attorney - General of Ukraine, for the establishment of the real cause of death of the head of the Department of Medical Statistics of the Vinicko Department of Health, Lieutenant Colonel Victor Bondar. Valentina MATWEYEVA to the executive responsibility of the finance minister of Ukraine, the head of the Odessa District State Administration regarding the urgent resolution of the issue of the capital repair of the shelter of the Centre for Out - of - School Work and Children’s Creativity in Ishmael Odessa. Valerija BARANOVA to the head of the Ukrainian State Committee on Land Resources on the need to bring Ukraine's land legislation into line with the Ukrainian National Committee of Lands Order No.133 of 16 March 2009. Valeria BEVZA to the Minister of Environmental Protection of Ukraine, Minister of Housing and Municipal Economy of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of Ukraine, Head of the Poltava District Public Administration on the activities of the Lubenski Municipal Authority of the Poltava region in the area of reforming organizations that provide water and water supply to the city, preventing possible negative consequences for the environment, and protecting labour rights of employees of the municipal utility company Lubnivodokal. Valery of the Journalist to the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, Head of the State Committee for Financial Monitoring of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of Ukraine on the verification of information proclaimed by the Ukrainian National Deputies Andrey Portnov, Svetoslav Olijnik, Valery Pisarenko, Volodymyr Pilipenko, in the media on the facts of corruption and abuse by the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, and on the acquisition by one of the Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine of real estate abroad, including Baden-Beden worth 550,000 euros. Victor KORJA to the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, the Attorney General of Ukraine, to prevent employees of the Ukrainian Ministry of Family Affairs, Youth and Sports from ensuring the rights and freedoms of their guardians. Vassila KRAVČUKA to the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine on the attempt to capture a trading pavilion in Mikolayev on the street of the Soviet Republic, 13 and on the overriding of the service authority of the senior state executive of the Central Department of State Executive Services of the Mikolaiow City Department of Justice. Vladimir DANILENKA to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on repeated violations of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Law of Ukraine on Police, the exceedance of official powers and the beating of the inhabitants of the city of Ohtrika by the employees of the police of the Ohtyr City Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Sumski district. Vladimir YAVORIYSKO to the Ministry of Transport and Communications of Ukraine on the retransmission of the Russian Radio Channel Voice of Russia by Ukrainian radio stations, which is anti-State in nature and is particularly dangerous during the presidential election campaign in Ukraine. Vladimir YAVORIYSKO to the executive responsibility of the Head of the State Television and Radio Committee of Ukraine for the cessation of radio broadcasting "First Channel", "Culture" and "Amen" in many regions of Ukraine, which artificially narrows the Ukrainian cultural and information space of the day before the election of the President of Ukraine. GREGORY OF OMELCHEN to the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Prosecutor General of Ukraine for the violation of residence permits for military personnel in the city of Bila Church of Kiev. GREGORY ILLASHOVA to the National Bank of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine on unlawful actions and abuse of the position of temporary administrator of the National Bank of Ukraine and the head of the branch of the Public Shareholder Association of the West Bank Commercial Bank. Oleg ZARUBINSKI to the first deputy head of the Ukrainian Antimonopoly Committee of State responsible for the lack of a proper and timely response to inadequate pricing policies for transit documents in the city of Kiev. Igora KALETNIKA to the head of the Office of the President of Ukraine, the head of the Supreme Council of Justice, the head of the Council of Judges of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the need to take urgent action in connection with the conduct of the head of the Court in the domestic affairs of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, by Valentin Barbara, on corruption and other illegal activities. Eduard PRUTNIK to the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine regarding the verification of the information provided in the address of Victoria Titek regarding the unsatisfying housing conditions of the soldier’s family and the use of appropriate measures to ensure the right to housing of military personnel living in the military town of Right in Chernigovishte. Kirila KULIKOVA to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the use of legislative measures designed to effectively and objectively investigate criminal cases committed by officials of the Open Shareholders Company Kyivwaterkanal. Ms. Aleksandra ŠEPELEVA to the head of the State Committee on Land Resources to address the issue of the issue of the issuance of State acts to land the inhabitants of the city of Jaremch, Johno-Frankiv region. Mr. Vladimir BONDARENKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the misconduct of officials of the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine during the tender. Edouard PRUTNIK to the Ministry of Transport and Communications of Ukraine, Director-General of the State Administration of Railway Transport of Ukraine, Deputy Head of the Montenegrin District Administration, Head of the Montenegrin District Administration, Director of the State Enterprise Černgivautotransservis, on a collective appeal on behalf of the representatives of the village of Grigorovka in the region of Montenegro to restore train stop No.335 "Dnipropetrovsk-Sankt-Peterburg" at the Grigorovka Station of the Southern Railway for the provision of troops of Grigorovka, Wessel, Bili Veži, Zelenyevka and Chevchenkov by rail transport. Paul SILCHANA to the Minister of Culture and Tourism of Ukraine for the formation of tourist routes in Kiev according to the national goal programme for the 2012 European Football Championship in Ukraine. Mr. Alexander SKIBYNECK to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine for the verification of the legality of the appointment of Senior Police Lieutenant Ion Shalar as head of the Zastavnovsky District Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the region of Chernivetsk. Oxana BILOSIR to the head of the High Council of Justice, the head of the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine, for the purpose of determining the reasons for the baseless delay in Odessa District Administrative Court of the case for the subpoena of the National Council for Television and Radio Affairs of Ukraine regarding the revocation of the Society's license with limited responsibility of the "ATV Company". Alexia KOSTUSEVA to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Prosecutor of Odessa District, Chief of the Department of Interior of Ukraine in the Odessa Region on the irreparable harm to the lives and health of the residents of Odessa in connection with the prolonged illegal operation of an industrial facility on the street of Guardiska,2. Ms. Gordijenka to the head of the National Committee on Land Resources of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the head of the Poltava District Public Administration for the protection of the interests of the owners of the Company's land rations, the limited responsibility of the "Agrofirma Kamyanka" village of Kamyani Potoks of the Kremenchuck region of Poltavsk region, the need to carry out a legal analysis of the content of the agreement in accordance with the current legislation of Ukraine, to ensure the participation of representatives of the Prosecutor's Office in the case of the dissolution of leases, to bring responsibility to the persons responsible for the improper use of leased land. Mr. KRUKA and Ms. Shewchuk to the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights on the use of appropriate measures for the immediate release of Ukrainian citizens, members of the Heat Crew Island of Lake, imprisoned in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. YEUGENA KARJKOVA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the possible violation of legislation by the district administration of Shevchenkiv in Kiev. Groups of National Deputies to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Attorney General of Ukraine on the impunity of the criminal activity of the Odessa City Chief of Staff, Eduardo Gurvitz, other officials of the Odessa City Council. [[KOSTUSIVA, CHETOVOVA, BONDARENKO]] Constantine Bondareva and Uljana MOSTIPAN to the Head of the State Committee of Ukraine from Land Resources, Kyiv District Administration of Land Resources, Director of the Kyiv Regional Branch of the State Enterprise “Centre of State Land Cadastre”. Kirila KULIKOVA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the non-action of the prosecutor's offices and the use of immediate measures of prosecutorial response to the Director General of the Open Share Company Kyivvodokanal, Jaroslav Filatov. MIKOLI KULČINSKI to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of the implementation of the decisions of the Poltava City Council of the seventh and second sessions of the fifth vocation of September 12 and October 5, 2006 on the purpose of using the Society’s investment funds with limited liability “Fifth Element. ” Mr. Oleg TYCHENKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the examination of the facts concerning the abuse of power and the official position of officials of South Customs of the State Customs Service of Ukraine. Mr. Alexander DONI to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the failure of the Deputy Minister of Justice of Ukraine to comply with the demands of the National Deputy of Ukraine for the cessation of the illegal activities of the Federation of Parity Sports of Ukraine. Petra PISTARCHUKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the inaction of local authorities in the issue of non-payment of salaries since 2007 at the Open Shareholder Company "Priesty". [[Town of Chervonograd, Lviv region]] Aleksandra GROŠKEVIĆA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the need for a thorough examination of the alleged facts of the accident by the head of the Sixth Regional Centre of the Ministry of Ukraine on emergency issues and on the protection of the population against the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster in the town of Drogobycz Lvivsk. SERGY VLASENKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the unobjective investigation by the Volin Transportation Prosecutor of a criminal case involving the suicide of Sergio Guluk. GREENEVECH to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the procedure for the registration of Oseltamivir, Oseltamivir-Health and Tamvir. Jury MIROSCHENKA to the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine on the raid of the Vasilkovsky Interstate Prosecutor's Office on the property of the Astro-agro farm. Jury CARMAZINA to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the establishment of an integrated commission to verify systematic violations of criminal and criminal law, to cover, to avoid criminal liability and the inaction of officials of the Provincial Prosecutor's Office for refusing criminal proceedings against the judge of the Rhine City Court of Denisuk for misappropriation of office, for exceeding the authority and official powers, for official documents, for criminal offences, and for the criminal prosecution of criminal offences, which led to the disqualification of the Provincial Prosecutor's Office, for the use of appropriate response measures to eliminate the numerous violations of Ukrainian law in force, for the violation of criminal cases and for the prosecution of those responsible. Group of National Deputies to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on violations by officials of the State Treasury of Ukraine of effective legislation in the use of the funds of the State Budget Reserve Fund of Ukraine. [[(Signed) Komara, SKOBAŠOVSKI, KARAKAJA]] Group of National Deputies to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegality of the Ukrainian Security Service's actions in the violation of a criminal case based on the fact of hunger in 1932-1933. [[SIMONENICA, MARTINJUKA, AND OTHERS. Total 13 deputies]] Vladimir CARPUCA to the Head of the Kyiv City State Administration for the Return of the Building of the Pharmacy Company No.117 on Lomonosov Street, 33/43 for the needs of the National Cancer Institute in Kiev. GREGORY to the Prosecutor of the Volin area regarding the conduct of an ossification and concealment check, by the officials of the bodies of the internal affairs of the Volin region, during the proceedings of the citizen of Mikoli Matsuka and the deputy of the Volin district council of Peter Pronja. Petra PISTARCHUKA to the prosecutor of the Lviv region for the verification of the legality of the transfer of Lviv district dental medicine to the Lviv National Medical University of Danila Galicki. Vladimir ARYEVA and Yuri KARMAZINA to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the examination of the facts of exceeding the official powers and the abuse of the official position of officials of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Donetsk region, on the deliberate destruction of the assets of the Association of Shareholders, on the part of LEMA, and on the part of the company's economic activity, which may lead to bankruptcy, on the grounds of bodily harm to the representative of the association by taking appropriate measures to address violations of Ukrainian law and to bring the perpetrators to justice. MIKOLI JIGA to the Ministry of Regional Development and Construction of Ukraine on the illegal transfer of instigation territory to the town of Bari Winnitsky. Mr. Stanislaw ARGEVITINE to the Prosecutor’s Office of the Kyiv District for information. All requests have been made. Dear colleagues, we are moving on to issues and according to the schedule of meetings for today. Any questions about the organization of work now? Please sign in. Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u2	Dear Alexander Vladimirovich! Dear colleagues! The issue of the report of the Minister of Social Policy of Denisova was the first on the agenda, but the co-rapporteurs, for reasons that were not clear, were Laško, Suškević. We don't have a KVN here, we don't have a Znatakov Club, and we don't have to have a circus here. This is a serious matter to consider, and it is therefore necessary to limit Denisov and the Head of the Pension Fund and co-rapporteur Hare to discuss and decide accordingly on the resignation of the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u3	Yavorovsky Volodymyr Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, I'd like to address my colleague Chechetov. Dear Mr. Michael, if you don't stop slandering and spreading hysteria, you know, I'll take your interrogation protocol, it's, it's been printed on the Internet every day, and I'll read some fragments from where you're giving Kuchma, you're giving someone else. Maybe that'll calm you down. The second question. Aleksandre Volodymyrovich, something that flies away constantly after the Conciliation Council review of the Kiev-Pecher Lawry Decision. That's an incredibly important question. Kolznikko has already agreed that we want to push out the Moscow Patriarchate. Absolute provocation! The only thing is to take it to the cities that have done so today and pass it on to the government's protectorate. I ask you very much, for our next meeting, to make this statement, Alexander Volodymyrovich, absolutely.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u5	Kiselov Vasil Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u6	Thank you. Dear colleagues, all the issues that the Supreme Council of Ukraine is discussing, including the 300th anniversary of Lysican, are very important. About the celebration of Lysicánsk yesterday we included in the agenda and discussed it, and we made a decision. Sadly, though, the third plenary week is now being referred to the report of the Simferopol Interim Investigation Commission. When the commission is given an opportunity to report, colleagues, you realize that the question is extremely serious. So, Alexander Volodymyrovich! Alexander Volodymyrovich, I ask you to give the interim commission of inquiry an opportunity. Alexander Volodymyrovich, I'm asking you to give the interim commission 10 minutes to report, and if you can't do it today, I ask you to do it in the next plenary week, Tuesday and no more. Because as long as we're clear, there's a ladder of land going in Simferopol. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u7	Komar Mikola Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u8	Please give the floor to the MP, Papiev Mikhail Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u9	Thank you. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! Given that we now have a very important issue in the agenda that I have to prove to all citizens of Ukraine, that the government is lying, by referring to the fact that pensions rise by only 60 copies and consciously do not pay every pensioner 75-150 dollars, and that we can and have every opportunity to prove today. But let us consider the fact that today we have a Friday, a short day, from 13 o’clock on, the announcements made by the Ukrainian national deputies. I feel like they're deliberately trying to push this issue so that we don't get to the vote for the draft Employment and Social Policy Ordinance. Alexander Volodymyrovich, I have an offer that we will join the Rules in order to have the Minister's report, a report by the head of the Pension Fund of Ukraine and a report by the Head of the Committee on Social Policy and Labour, and then to proceed to the discussion, to speak from factions to make.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u10	Condaruk Olena Constantinovna. Kenzir Jaroslav. We're done with the offers. Dear colleagues, of the issues that have been raised, I'm informing you about the question of. The report of the temporary commissions, they're not on the schedule today because the Supreme Council of Ukraine made a decision yesterday, yesterday and the day before yesterday, on issues that were immediately determined by the time of the hearing was yesterday and this morning. So they go to us as they were scheduled for the week. The next Tuesday we'll be there, I hope the Conciliation Council will back up, will stand in the first half of the day. As far as the first question is concerned, Your Honor, we have a time limit of 45 minutes for such issues, and on the basis of that, of course, we have to set regulations for this issue with you right now. And those proposals that were made by the profile committee, they exceed the time limit three times, so of course we can't fit in. So there's going to be a proposal for your knowledge. To give the main rapporteurs, who were invited specifically for the reports – the Minister of Labour and Social Policy and the Head of Government of the Pension Fund of Ukraine for 10 minutes to report, and 10 minutes to answer questions of the National Deputies. After that, let's hear a 10 minute speech by the head of the profile committee. Those committees that expressed their desire to participate. The committee heads also spoke for up to five minutes and spoke for each of the parliamentary factions for up to three minutes. Is it accepted? Is there no objection? There's no objection. Let's go. Is there a denial? Please deny Chechtov Mikhail Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u11	Alexander Vladimirovich, you said you were right to give the Minister a speech, the head of the Pension Fund, give the head of the special committee a speech to Hara, and then give the factions a line. It's a question of its own, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u12	Dear colleagues, let's not waste any more time right now, we're going to talk more about how many minutes we're going to have from two more committee heads, we're going to be nothing, we're going to lose a lot of time. I ask you to accept this offer. THE ZALU OPPORTUNITIES!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u13	Roger that. I invite you to report to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine, Denisova Ludmila Leontiyevna. Please, Sophia Leontievna, you have 10 minutes to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u14	Dear National Deputies! Dear Lord Chairman! On October 20th of this year, you adopted the Ukrainian Act “On the establishment of living minimum and minimum wage”. Under this law, minimum social standards are being raised. On November 6, 2009 the government began implementing these two laws. So let me tell you how the government is implementing these laws adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. When the Ukraine Act on amending Ukraine’s 2009 budget became effective on 18 November 2009, we calculated additional expenditure on the implementation of the law. To implement the Law adopted to raise social standards in full, it took 8.2 billion dollars. But the budget changes that you adopted on November 06 are projected to cost 700 million dollars. It takes money in the amount that is predicted, indeed, to increase wages and pensions by amending the Law as of November 06 requires 1 billion dollars and you see it on your screens. We also needed to determine which minimum of living should be applied to the calculation of social assistance to our citizens' pensions. Article 54 of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for 2009 states, as of 26 December 2008, that the standard of living is set at December 2008. On November 06, this article was amended -- an additional second part, which provides for other sizes of living minimum. So now it's working and it's being edited on your screens. The first part tells us that the subsistence minimum is to be applied as of December 2008 and the second part of November 01 is to apply the size, in increased sizes, for example, the subsistence minimum for disabled persons at December 2008 levels is 498 and at November 01, which was approved by the Law on the Promotion of Social Standards 574. For working persons, the same 669 according to the first part, and the second part, 744 bracelets. Therefore, honourable national MPs, the government has taken the appropriate decision and, as of November 01, 2009, will apply and apply the current minimum of living on a higher scale to calculate the amount of social assistance and pension payments. As far as the minimum wage is concerned. The changes made to the 2009 Act on the State Budget of Ukraine provide that the minimum wage is set at 744 bracelets. At the same time, the first tariff level of a single tariff network by the Supreme Council of Ukraine was left unchanged in the amount of 545 dollars. Therefore, the increase in wages will only take place in the workers of the first, second, third, 94 bracelets, fourth, 52 bracelets. And the first tariff charge, for example, the younger nurse gets an increase of 3 bracelets. I confirm Mr. Schlapak's words, who has reported changes to the law that our distinguished Mr. President has passed. He also pointed out that this increase would take place for only 480,000 budget workers. Nor is the budget budget for the increase in salaries for the indexation of the income of military personnel, primary staff, and military personnel. This minimum wage increase for individual budget workers requires at least 400 million bracelets. And now the Ministry of Finance is looking for this money, and payments to our budget staff will be provided on an increased scale to those categories, as provided by law. With regard to the payment of State aid to families with children. It costs to pay for increased assistance to families with children, low-income families, disabled children, disabled children and temporary state assistance to children by the Change Act. The State Budget for Ukraine 2009 is not foreseen. Moreover, subsidies from the State budget have been reduced to provide local budgets. Why did this happen? According to the State Budget Act of December 26, a subsidy of 15 billion was approved. [[slide show me, please]] 15 billion 923 bracelets. The budget changes of November 6 have increased such a subsidy by 100 million, that is, 16 billion 23 million dollars. But this amount of subsidies is smaller than that already in force in November of this year. The government used its capacity, according to article 37 of the Ukrainian State Budget for 2009, to redistribute and increase subsidies to local authorities. Why? Because babies are born in our country and 80,000 children were born in 10 months of this year more than last year, so this subsidy needed to be increased. And by 611 million, the government had increased, by 611 million, this subsidy had become, of 611 million, 16 billion 535 million. [[I'm asking you to show me that slide.]] [[9th Slide, please]] So it's actually 6 November of this year. reduced the amount of subsidies by 511 million dollars. Such examples by region, for example: The Plain Region is actually using 537 million dollars, and is subject to only 500 million changes; the Donetsk region is projected to cost a billion 327 million dollars, but not enough for 42 million dollars. And this has happened in virtually every area. Today, district managers ask me, “How do I do this? ” Of course, we offer such advice because the government has already predicted this 100 million, increased the subsidy. On December 7 each region will receive this subsidy, all payments in increased sizes, and citizens, almost a million thousand families, will receive these amounts, these payments in increased sizes. As far as retirement benefits are concerned. You know, I had a very difficult conversation with the trade unions yesterday, and we discussed the implementation of this law, these changes to the State Budget Act, which were introduced into the 2009 budget in November-months, and the trade unions supported the analysis that was done, and the accounts that were made by the Minpraci, and there's a statement by 62 trade organizations and associations. A decision was made by the government: As of April 2008, the minimum pension payment could not be lower than the subsistence minimum for those who had lost their jobs. According to the Law on Change, the State Budget has already made these estimates. What's going on now? That 6 million citizens will receive such a supplement, 60 copies, and 6 million citizens will reduce their pension. Why? Because that supplement that was made by the government, $28 million, 40 dollars, is more than 60 copies, i.e. 573 bracelets are now a viable minimum for disabled people. That's why the minimum pension is the same.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u15	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u16	I want to tell you one thing that the government is implementing those laws that you have adopted, the honourable national MPs. As of today, pensioners will receive higher-sized pensions, there will now be payments of these pensions, all the information printed, and now the pensioners will receive. The same will happen with the help of families with children. By the 10th, the information is printed according to the graph, and from the 10th to the 25th months, all of this help will be done. Thank you for your attention. Can I ask you a question?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u17	Thank you, Sophia Leontievna. Please sign up for a question to the reporter. Hara Vasil Georgievovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u18	Dear Ludmila Leontyevna! Well, I know that all you've talked about in this report is a complete wound, including a wound to the support of trade unions at yesterday's meeting of your opinion. As far as I know, everyone, without exception, first of all, the Federation of Trade Unions of Ukraine has categorically disagreed with the proposal that you have expressed. And you have been supported by the only representative of the trade union is the national trade union confederation, the union that flourishes in front of the Cabinet of Ministers, the association that has been delegated to you by its Vice-Ministers and that is why all you will not say is that they are certainly ready to confirm. Say, please, besides Petrichenko, who else could have supported the anti-national anti-social policy of the Ministry?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u19	Thank you, Vasily Georgievich. You know, I don't think that the policies of the Timoshenko Government and the policies of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy are anti-national. And I can prove it. It's just that. Only during the Timoshenko government has pensions increased by 60 percent over these two years, and they have been increased this year. And as for the support of the unions, indeed, the Federation of Trade Unions did not support it. And I would be very surprised that the Federation of Trade Unions has supported these conclusions of the government, these conclusions of the Ministry of Labour, because the head of the trade unions today is you, the distinguished national deputy from the Party of Regions, who heads today the Committee of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine. That's why it's separate. individual members of your union supported, indeed, this meeting and thanked the Ministry of Labour and Government that we had found a way out and had not reduced pensions. And that's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u20	Landik Vladimir Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u21	Please pass the word to Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u22	Dear reporter, please tell me when you said you were wrong: was it when we discussed the Law on raising living minimum, minimum wage and pensions, claiming that by the end of the year it would take 7 billion dollars and in 2010 it would take more than 70 billion dollars? Are you now lying, claiming that the law we passed adds only 60 copies to the minimum pension? Please state the actual amount that we need to use or add by the end of the year to implement our law to implement the law in part of the increase in the minimum pension? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u23	Thank you for asking, my dear colleague. Indeed, when the Supreme Council passed the Law on raising minimum social standards, subsistence minimum and minimum wage, then we calculated how much money the State needed to find in order to secure this law. In 2009, it took 8.2 billion dollars, that's just 6 billion dollars to provide minimum wage and the first rate of living for working citizens. Not 545, as is now the first tariff charge, but 744. So, really, there were these calculations. And for 2010, we confirm that this is 72 billion. That's why we said we needed to find that kind of money. But then, on November 6th, when changes were made to the Ukrainian State Budget for 2009, there were no increases in wages that were in the law of Oleg Zarubinsky. Because according to article 55, the first part is approved.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u24	Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u25	Thank you. Madam Minister, I am listening to you – and I am reminded of the words of the classic: “There is the word that Taras has put in front of people on guard.” Let's talk professionally and honestly to you about things that you don't tell people today that you don't want to talk about, knowing that you really didn't pay people from 75 to 150 bracelets this November. Why? I'll explain it to you, you've just introduced, I guess, a know-how like this is a minimum pension payment. Neither the law nor the law on compulsory state pension insurance does. There's a clear 28th article written: the minimum pension should be at the minimum of living. So the columns you're showing, 544 bracelets have to be divided by 654, 498 plus 46 plus 28.4. And one more thing, as a minister, you should know that laws do not invalidate government decrees. Therefore, it is not necessary to say that the law has annulled any government decree.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u26	Thank you so much for asking. Mikhail Mikolaiovich, I always treat you like a professional. So I want to remind you that this is a know-how, as you say, that we now have a minimum pension payment and a subsistence minimum for workers is your know-how. And we used this know-how that you introduced in 2004, we paid the pensioners first. Remember before the president's election? And then, when the calculations were done, 264 of the bracelets you paid were absorbed. It was very good for you. And with regard to 75 bracelets and 150 bracelets, you yourself have made a decision, a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine that, in implementing Oleg Zarubinski's law on raising social standards, the government will necessarily make this supplement 28 fines 40 cents above the amount of pension that will be counted according to the law. So here's a confirmation of those words, which.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u27	Please finish, just one minute -- question, one minute -- answer. Please complete the answers to the questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, I have one more thing to say to you: we're not just cooperating with the unions, we're working with the public organizations, and you all remember that next year is the year of the Great Victory, the 60th anniversary of the Great Victory. Thus, thanks to the support of the Board of Veterans’ Organizations, the Government increased pension payments, minimum pension payments to the disabled of the First, Second, and Third Groups, and participants in hostilities by 20 percent two days ago. This category was also forgotten by changes to the State Budget Act. I am convinced that the support that will now take place in the policies of the government of Timoshenko and me as minister, it will only push me into some of the following things in order to really raise these social standards and implement all of these laws that the Supreme Council of Ukraine is adopting to increase the lives of our people. Thank you so much for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u29	Please return to the rostrum. The question is asked by Glazunov Sergey Mikolayovich. Please come to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u30	Please pass on the word of Akimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u31	Akimov's Irina Mikhailovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u32	Madam Minister, I would like to remind you and your fellow deputies of the activities of the special operator entitled “Electronic world of Ukraine”, who, at the initiative of the tax administration, has become a mediator in the transmission of electronic tax reporting. For this service, legal persons paid, including State entities, 960 bracelets, 690 bracelets, and 360 bracelets for kindergartens and schools. On 3 November, Ukrainian Justice published information that your Ministry imposed the services of this firm on the electronic reporting of compulsory social insurance funds. I think it's open corruption. That's why I have a question for you. Question number one: Have the Ministry's official investigation been carried out, and the perpetrators have been identified? And the second question is whether they were involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u33	Irina Mikhailno, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u34	Have law enforcement agencies been involved to find out who did this? And if not, do you personally feel guilty about these corruption activities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u35	You know, if Ukrainian Truth is going to work in our place of trial, everyone sitting there, he'd probably be on trial by now. Because to this day we have one organ that can say it's the man or another's fault, it's the court. Therefore, if you have proof that this information, which is actually posted on the Ukrainian Truth website, is true, I ask you, such evidence will be passed on to me and I will certainly conduct such an official investigation. Thank you for your information.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u36	Thank you, Ludmila Leontievna. The rules of procedure for answering the question are now exhausted. Please, have a seat. I invite you to report to the head of the Government of the Pension Fund of Ukraine, Oleksija Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u37	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the Pension Fund has carried out and will continue to carry out all its obligations to pensioners. This includes the implementation of laws adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to raise social standards. In support of this, I report it. To implement the above-mentioned laws and decisions of the government, the Pension Fund has fully completed all the necessary technical procedures for the recalculation, from the completion of software to the printing of new-sized pension information. Today, 4 numbers, as envisaged in the payout schedule, our pensioners have begun to receive pensions on an elevated scale and along with a corresponding supplement for November-month. As in previous months, pensions will be paid up to 25, clearly according to the dates set for each pensioner at the beginning of the year. To date, 3 billion 30 million dollars have been allocated to pensions due to postal companies and banks, accounting for 21 percent of the monthly need and is fully in line with the schedule for pension financing. I'm informing you that the funds provided for in the 2009 changes to the 2009 State Budget are necessary for the payment of higher pensions, namely 717 million dollars allocated by the Government of the Pension Fund in full. By the way, I want to say that the state budget for pensions is allocated to the Pension Fund under three budget programmes, but the 6 November law has increased the allocation by just one of them. As a result, no funds were provided to increase pensions for miners, military personnel, blacksmiths, war veterans, and some other categories. However, the government has found an opportunity to finance pension payments to all these people. Now, a few words about the new size of pensions. The total pension was increased by 13 million to 750 thousand pensioners. In more than 6 million unemployed retirees, the minimum pension payment will increase according to the new living minimum, as well as with an additional 28.4 of the government’s payments. As a result, no unemployed pensioner will receive less than 61 bracelets of 40 copies, nearly 30 dollars more of the subsistence minimum for disabled persons. In individual categories of pensioners, the government’s minimum pension will increase further, for example, the minimum pension rate of more than 40,000 miners from November is from 1719 to 1494 in October. The 12,000 people with disabilities in the first group are 1440 against 1200. In almost 40,000 people with disabilities in the Second War, 1296 against 1080. In the 12,000 people with disabilities of the third group's war, 1152 against 960. But 56,000 participants in combat action are 1008 dollars against 960. There is also an increase in overtime allowances, a special merit pension before Ukraine, and other benefits determined by the subsistence minimum. The average amount of pensions after their recalculations increased from 946 to 978. And I'm going to remind you that this is not the first increase in pensions in this crisis in 2009. During this year, pensions were tripled by the government’s decision. Since the beginning of the year, the average pension rate has increased by more than 8 percent, and since 2008 it has increased by 61 percent. Compared to 2007, the annual expenditure on citizens’ pensions increased by 50 billion dollars. Ladies and gentlemen, the Pension Fund is currently working on the implementation of the new social standards adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and in 2010. But of course, this requires additional financial resources. And I remind you that the government has repeatedly made appropriate proposals to Parliament aimed at mobilizing this resource. First of all, this includes the limitation of large pensions, the cancellation of insurance benefits, the repayment of corporate debts to the Pension Fund, the improvement of pension recalculation and other issues that have a direct impact on the financial situation of the pension system. So when I take this opportunity, I ask you to come back to considering these suggestions and to make the right decision as soon as possible. That's how we're going to raise pensions in the future. And as I finish my speech from this high rostrum, I want to go to our pensioners and point out once again that they have no reason to be nervous. Their dues will be paid in full and in full. Thank you for your attention. Ready to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u38	Please sign up for the question. Lukyanov Vladislav Valentinović.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u39	I want to ask you a question. Now you've been reporting, and you've almost written in paints, like a good pensioner's life. And do you have any idea how to live on this disgraceful pension that you're paying hard and you don't want to add to people at least 100 bracelets that they've earned, and what inflation that your government has unleashed has eaten from them? Don't you realize that a pension below the minimum of living is a joke on people, on pensioners? Don't you understand that on the 12-14 bracelets you pay on average every day, which are left after utility costs, you have to buy food, buy medicine, buy clothes, I'm not talking about any other expenses, go to the movies, take a month to collect money or buy a newspaper. You think this is a normal life when you speak here.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u40	Thank you for asking. First of all, I want to say that we all pay our pensions on time, we don't have any delays. Secondly, I want to say that we don't have any pensions in Ukraine, which is less than a living minimum. And the next. I have already reported that, since November of the month, the minimum size for non-working retirees, pension payments exceed the living minimum of 30 dollars.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u41	Semerak Ostap Mihajlovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u42	Dear head of the fund! In fact, the abuse of pensioners is those statements that the Party of Regions, including today, raises the hysteria it has in the hall. From my point of view, the fund works perfectly well and freely. But we should not forget that this year is a year of financial crisis. Nevertheless, the government of Ukraine has raised pensions several times during this year. I wanted to ask you to give a little bit more detailed information as a percentage, maybe how did the pensions get up this year? And please tell us, is there such a trend in other world partners in our other European countries over the past year to raise social benefits for their citizens?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u43	Thank you for asking. I want to repeat that this year's government has already tripled its pension, that's the fourth increase in the amount of pension to be made. Almost 9 percent of the growth this year. As for other countries, I want to say that not all countries, and not even countries that are part of the European Union, have increased pensions, but some have frozen pensions and some have gone down. In Latvia, for example, there were 70 percent reduction in pensions for retired workers and 30 percent for unemployed workers this year. The government of Ukraine has failed to do so, on the contrary, there has been an increase in pensions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u44	Hara Vasil Georgiyovich is referring the question to Stoyan Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u45	Dear reporter, the government claims that only 60 copies are added to the minimum pension in accordance with our law. During this week, you stated that the most solid allowance would be given to MPs, high-ranking officials, members of the Secretary of the Ukrainian President's Office, their pensions, you said, would increase by one thousand dollars. Is this not an attempt to discredit national MPs and civil servants? Please explain how these 60 copies will have such a strong impact on the civil service’s pensions. And what's more, don't you know, if you don't know, read the law that pensions are assigned to civil servants by different laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u46	Thank you for asking. I would like to report that according to the National Pension Insurance Act, pension benefits are calculated for all categories, including government officials, other high officials. There is a limit to the maximum wage of 15 living minimums for working persons. Since the legislation has increased the living minimum, the maximum amount of income that is calculated is increasing accordingly.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u47	Mironenko Mikhailo Ivanovich is delegating the right to ask the question of Papiev Mikhail Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u48	Thank you. Dear reporter, you know, we haven't heard a word of truth today from the Minister of Labour and Social Policy. I know you as a professional who worked at the Ukrainian Pension Fund back in normal time, and you would have to tell our citizens honestly that it's not up to the Pension Fund to collect pensions and how it's done. Why? Because it happens in automated mode, and software is passed to you by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. Well, I'd like you to answer that question responsibly. In November, I was watching software with your employees. The minimum pension size is 498. The next is a supplement, regulation 654 and a supplement of 28.4 of the 198, which became effective, not as you say, that you gave from the bar back for November of this year, but from October 1st. So here's what's required by law now, instead of 498 bracelets.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u49	Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u50	Dear Miklaiovich, I also respect you as a professional person, and I want to say that we have pensions not primarily for software, but according to the legislative acts that have been adopted. According to these legislative acts, there have been a number of recalculations made today. And by the way, in terms of the minimum pension size, I want to say that the funds allocated to increase these pensions on November 6th by law in that amount cover exactly the expenses we talked about. If pensions were to be increased, such as 75 dollars per pensioner, these expenses would have to be doubled. That is why we are acting according to the legislation that has been adopted.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u51	Thank you, Alexy Borisovich. Have a seat, please. I invite the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy and the work of Haru Vasil Georgievovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u52	Dear colleagues, on behalf of the Committee on Social Policy and Labour, we have not yet known such a social disgrace. Today, 15 million people in Ukraine are poor and poor, of whom 8 million are retired and 7 million are employed. These are all those who receive salaries and pensions below the poverty line defined by the Government as 792 bracelets. Every normal State, especially during the crisis, is taking measures to protect the population. Ukraine is the only country among the CIS countries that has so far failed to raise social standards. The laws adopted by the Supreme Council on the establishment of a subsistence minimum and minimum wage and the State budget for 2009 were precisely intended to protect the population of the country. But another time in the Cabinet of Ministers, there was a theater of absurdity. Prime Minister Yulia Timoshenko throughout the world states that under no circumstances will he comply with the Act on the Improvement of Social Standards adopted by the Supreme Council. The Prime Minister understands, in his own way, article 113 of the Constitution, which states that the Cabinet of Ministers responsible for the Supreme Council and its activities is governed only by the laws of Ukraine and the Supreme Council. In other words, in any other country, the Prime Minister would immediately become a former Prime Minister, but that does not apply in Ukraine. It is not enough that our Prime Minister also claims to be the highest guardian of the Constitution. You can imagine, do not give God these guarantees. We also have the original Minister of Labour and Social Policy, who here sings a beautiful song about social protection for the population. It was God's own command to support the above-mentioned laws, since it was under the Ministry's regulations to develop and implement public social protection policies aimed at raising the standard of living of the population. It has a personal responsibility for this policy, as recorded in this provision. But Denisov is operating in a diametrically opposite direction. It is categorically opposed to raising social standards as defined by the laws adopted. Every day and night, Minister Denisov on television screens reports on the illegality of these laws and trusts in the Constitutional Court, which is supposed to annul the illegal decisions of the Supreme Council. If our Minister were a professional and, at least in good faith, worked on a ministerial salary, by the way, she would know that even those social standards laws adopted by the Supreme Council had low minimum wages and a subsistence minimum, which is contrary to the laws of Ukraine and the Constitution. Note that the law proposes to establish a subsistence minimum of 701 bracelets as of 1 November 2009. In fact, today the subsistence minimum is objectively 960 bracelets. It is read and published by the Ministry of Labour in accordance with the law. The minimum wage is proposed in the amount of 744 bracelets, while in accordance with the Ukrainian Act of 01 January 2009 it should not be below the subsistence minimum, i.e. the same 960 bracelets. The Minister of Labour and Social Policy is required to know. But it is indifferent to the fact that the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine are being violated. After all, even if a living minimum of 701 bracelets had been fixed today, which the Prime Minister had risen against, it would be 260 bracelets less than the actual one. This means that at least the worker will fail from 260 to 400 bracelets and retirees from 180 to 200 bracelets a month. The Minister of Labour must be personally responsible for this. Denisov must also be personally responsible for his unsatisfactory work in the implementation of the European Social Charter. The High Council Committee on Social Policy and Labour at its meeting on 18 November 2009 acknowledged the work of the Cabinet of Ministers to implement the recommendations of the parliamentary hearings on the status of implementation in Ukraine of the European Social Charter. The Committee noted, as it did a year and a half ago, that parliamentary hearings indicated that the wage levels of most workers could not even ensure the minimum need for their families. That the average wage in Ukraine is the lowest among the neighbouring countries, let alone the European Union that we are striving for. If you and I produce only four times the gross domestic product, the average wage is 27 times less than in the European Union. The Act on the Revision of Living Minimum has not complied with the requirement. Today it is calculated according to outdated norms in 2000. The concept of wage reform has not been developed. A total of 6 per cent of the labour cost, wages and cost of products. At the same time as in the EU 30-60 percent. The employment programme for 2009-11 has not been developed. Recommendations were also ignored on the need for constructive cooperation between the Supreme Council, the Government, the central executive authorities and the parties to the social dialogue in order to comply with the norms adopted by our country under the European Social Charter. The Minister of Labour and Social Policy must be personally responsible for this. Denisov's personal responsibility should be due to the 2009 budget discrimination on the remuneration of the budget. The setting of the first-level tariff is below the minimum wage, 545 bracelets, not 20 per cent higher than the minimum wage, and the breach is a violation of the law and the general agreement. As a result, 4 million teachers, doctors, cultural workers must pay them to be frozen. The Minister of Labour must be personally responsible for an increase of 40 per cent of the wages owed today of almost 1 billion, 800 million dollars. It must be Denisov's personal responsibility and the collapse of social dialogue. In violation of the law, the negotiation process for the preparation and signing of the General Agreement for 2010 has been avoided. The Ministry of Labour must be personally responsible for interference with trade unions, the establishment of a national joint representative body of trade unions and the establishment of pocket trade unions to support the anti-national decisions of the Cabinet of Ministers. The Minister of Denisova must be personally responsible and the Cabinet of Ministers must suspend the financing of the coal sector in the amount of social insurance contributions from the fund. As a result, persons with disabilities will not be able to receive their regression benefits soon enough, without benefits. There is no more money to pay for sick leave and unemployment benefits. They're getting delayed in 25 days. The Minister of Labour must be personally responsible for 15 million poor, hundreds of thousands of homeless citizens and street children. Because we have no basic public social policy in Ukraine because of her guilt. It is the Ministry approved by the Cabinet of Ministers that has the responsibility and responsibility for the formation and implementation by the State of social policy in the country that the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy has the responsibility and the personal responsibility of the Minister. It is not enough that Minister Denisova and her Ministry not only fail to formulate and implement any social policy in Ukraine, it assumes responsibility to ignore and ridicule laws to improve social standards. And the last. I would like to reiterate that the wounds of the Minister, who has twice spoken from this rostrum to support their introductions by the trade union, are a lie. The Minister supported the view of only one trade union member, the Secretary-General of the National Confederation of the Monetary Union of the Cabinet of Ministers, and Mr. Petrichenko, who lived before him. All others, particularly the Federation of Trade Unions of Ukraine, were categorically opposed. In the light of the above, only one conclusion is requested, namely the compliance of the Minister of Labour with his post. This issue must be resolved by Parliament, because the benefits of its management by this important ministry are nothing but harm to the country and to the population, particularly the poor, very much and very much. Thank you. For your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u53	Thank you, Vasil Grigorovitch. Welcome to Suškevitch Valery Mikhajlovich. We're done here, we've agreed: issues only for government officials.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u54	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you know, in the context of the implementation of the Social Standards Act, let me mention my law, which I wrote in 2001, the Act on State Aid to Children with Disabilities and Disabled Persons from Childhood. Since 2001, this Act on the Assistance of Children with Disabilities and Disabled Persons has not been implemented by the governments of that time, not by the Government of Timoshenko. And all my efforts to convince this law to do so, those governments had no results. In 2005, Timoshenko came, funded the law in its entirety. And now for the Social Standards Act. Dear colleagues, ambiguous law, although I would like to emphasize, both Denisov and the government have begun to implement it. But I'm going back to the Disability Children and Disabled Persons Act again. It's financed by a subsidy. And unfortunately, once again the irony of the fate is that it was not carried out in the last few years by the then governments is that today, after the implementation of the provisions of this Law on Social Standards, unfortunately, and that's true, and that's what Minister Denisov said, which is bound to do, namely: for children with disabilities and children with low-income families, after the introduction of the law, this subsidy will decrease over half a billion dollars, dear colleagues! Is it possible today, without thinking at all, to enforce that law, including this minister, today’s minister, who has such great problems? I want to say that the government today is implementing legislation, pension legislation, including those provisions, the provisions of the Law on State Social Standards that our Parliament today requires. And I would like to say that, unfortunately, the ambiguity of the law is highlighted by the Supreme Council's Decree on certain issues of ensuring the implementation of the Ukrainian Law on the establishment of living minimum and minimum wage, under the number 5300, which is proposed to provide further payment, in particular pension payments, of the amount of $40. Dear colleagues, this decision is a work of error, of error, of regret, of error in this law. You know, I've always been critical of all ministers, but in this situation you can't ask questions about the resignation of a minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u55	From the Committee on Budget Affairs is the first deputy head of the Committee of MacKeenko Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u56	Honorable colleagues, an active government, continue the shameful practice of deceiving and abusing millions of ordinary Ukrainians. The failure by the Cabinet of Ministers to implement the rules of the Law on the establishment of living minimum and minimum wage will deprive 14.5 million citizens of higher wages, pensions and social assistance. Why does the Ukrainian authorities not like their citizens so much and tell them that as a result of the adoption of the Law on raising standards, 6 million pensioners will receive only 60 extra copies, and 6 million more pensions will actually fall? Instead of paying from 75 dollars to 150 dollars under the new law, government officials are doing their best to ensure that this supplement is only 60 copies and deliberately violates the order of saving all existing allowances and benefits to new pensions, refusing to make changes in the pension formula from 498 dollars to 573. Thus, as a result of openly criminal acts, Ukrainian citizens continue to receive minimum pensions and wages at the same level as they were almost two years ago and at a time when the prices of food and necessities have increased almost twice. Only in November of this year did these government officials, who are in power, withdraw some 100 dollars from each Ukrainian pensioner’s pockets, and when the minimum pension is 695 dollars from January 1, 2010, the pensioners will lose another 250 dollars. Thus, even if this government refuses to comply with the Law on raising social standards, Viktor Yanukovic’s first commitment as the newly elected President of Ukraine will be to carry out an immediate recalculation of pensions, wages, and social assistance from November 1, 2009. Their payout and their inflation index. Each person will be given back the stolen money, and the responsible high officials will be held accountable. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u57	Dear colleagues, we sign up for one representation from each faction. Please. Cibenko Peter Stepanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u58	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters, respected citizens of Ukraine! Peter Cibenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, head of the Ukrainian Veterans' Council. I have listened carefully to the fact that the agenda of the day is marked as a report by the Minister of Labour and Social Policy and the Head of Government of the Pension Fund of Ukraine, which is essentially not a report. It was anything but a report. I would like to ask you, Reverend Ludmila Leontiyevna, when you were real: when a deputy was passing draft laws on the social protection of the electorate, is today, when you as a minister of employment and social politics are doing everything possible and impossible to destroy the working people of Ukraine? I don't care how the Minister of Social Protection can defend the disadvantaged people of Ukraine in a position to speak, to advocate against increasing social standards. And when a decision is made, despite this denial, it is decided not to comply with the law. It's nonsense, it can't be. Anyone who can oppose the rise of social standards: Minister of Finance, Minister of Economy, Prime Minister, anyone but Minister of Social Protection. Once again, as minister, you had no right to do this, and you did it, and you did it knowingly, knowing the true level of poverty of our people. Because you knew that the subsistence minimum for Ukrainian citizens who lost their jobs was based on pension insurance: (a) set up in October 2008; (b) it was equal to 498 dollars; (c) the global financial and economic crisis in the yard, and (d) that housing prices and tariffs had increased not by interest but by the way. I would advise you in an experiment to try to live on 498 bracelets, not even a month, but at least a week. Perhaps you would have become a social worker, not in office, but indeed. Do you not know that for the first time in many years, Ukraine, thanks to you, the government and the coalition, entered the new year of 2009 without a new higher living minimum? It really was the first time. Don't you know that three-quarters of pensioners, and that's over 10 million veterans, get pensions from 500 to 1,000 bracelets? Did you, as a minister, as a woman, as a mother, not shake your hand when you submitted, agree that in the Ukrainian State Budget project for 200?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u59	Please finish, Peter Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u60	The 2010 project offers a minimum of living for citizens who have lost their jobs in terms of volume, consider this figure of 507 bracelets. The faction of the Ukrainian company is absolutely convinced that a person in such positions cannot embrace the position of minister of social protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u61	Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u62	Dear Ukrainian citizens, honourable colleagues, having listened to the debate that has already taken place, I have come to realize that the level of Ukrainian aviation technology has risen considerably and they can compete with the invited from abroad. Why do I say that? Because look what everyone's looking at right now: 60 copies there or 60 copies there. Grandmas are already asking the question in the villages: What did this law of yours reduce our pensions? You see what good electoral technology, but not economics, has led to our discussion. We're now looking at what's right and what's wrong, not the question of execution. This is the first position. So the technology worked 12 points on the current scale. The second question. I've always been an opponent when laws are replaced by decisions. Even government decisions. Look, in 2004, let's face it, before the presidential election at the time, there were retirement benefits. The law didn't include this in the budget. Retirement benefits are coming up, and there is a resistance to this being in the law. Another thesis. Third. In order for all those who listen to us to realize that all these interpretations of statistics are wrong, I regret not to make a slide, but I'm only going to read you two columns right now. The first column is the draft budget for 2010 for the minimum wage and minimum wage, and the second column is the content of the Act "Towards living minimum and minimum wage". So, from January 1st, the first column, you remember, right? citizens, this is a 2010 project, from January 1, 637 December 2010, from 825, from April 1, from 651, respectively, 839, etc. We take into account the people, the people who lost their jobs, more of them today and talked about them. As of January 1, 2010 budget according to the draft budget, 507 dollars and 695 dollars since January 1, 2010, respectively. Do you feel the difference? It's not 60 bucks, is it? And since April 1, 518th, of April 1, 706th and about, the same ratio remains. These are real numbers, these are statistics. Everything else is the interpretation and the work of technology. So, dear fellows, I propose that we seek this minister from the head of the Pension Fund to enforce the law. But the question of personnel decisions, what would you like to think about, and what would be a step forward? We don't have to play dominoes, we have to play chess. And the way forward is that in the absence of a single minister, if not possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u63	Please, hang on.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u64	If you can't appoint another minister, and you know this is going to happen, it's going to be 8, I don't remember whether 10 deputy ministers are going to be responsible for this law. So I'd like to take a look at this. We need to achieve the law, raise standards or process. If it's a process, it's the same technology, but on the other hand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u65	Arjev Vladimir Igorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u66	Dear colleagues, I'm looking at a lot of people who love the Ukrainian people so much that they're willing to strangle them in their arms. And today, they're breaking questions, and they're driving away absolutely nothing that's needed. What is today? People have pensions. And thank God. People are paid almost everywhere. Little, small, might want more, but thank God that it is. Because of the crisis, no normal country spends money on food. At this point, we're dealing with populism. There's pay, there's pensions -- small, but there are. To this day, we want to destroy just Ukrainian society and once again destroy the government's work. But you know very well to give people something, as you all suggest, you have to take it from somewhere, and take it from there. The economy doesn't work because the banking sector is completely out of business, and credits are not issued to businesses. Today, Ukraine’s huge export problems, since there is nowhere to export, are not being bought: the crisis has stopped the world’s economy. But I think you know very well where to go. And not for the people, but for yourself. Here was the chairman of the Federation of Trades, who was combining his illegal position with the post of Ukrainian National Deputy, although even when it was Mr. Stoyan, the regulatory committee admitted that it was illegal, that he was combining a position, his position in a trade union with the name of a national deputy. But I would like to ask Mr. Haru, if you care so much about the people, please tell me where it went from the ownership of the Clear Plain sanatorium, which is committed to renting. Where are you going with the children of the “Ukraine” sanatorium for which documents are being prepared for rent? The Shacki Lake sanatorium is the pearls of Ukrainian resorts? I, you know, as one character in the movie said, "I have sad doubts." In the state of Medjugorje, in the trade union, the Clear Plain. First, heal yourself to treat the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u67	Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich. Excuse me, they're handing over the right to speak to the national deputy, Stoyan Alexander Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u68	Dear fellow countrymen, please pay attention to such details. The minister of employment and social policy was convinced that the minimum wage could not be increased and that minimum pensions could not be increased. And this part of the BUIT applauded everyone because the government did not implement the more important Act on raising social standards. That's your position, that's your point! And the one who spoke out of this rostrum convinced us that it was the law. The forest gave birth to a mouse. So I'm like the head of a subcommittee on social standards and standard of living, and I want to now expand this mouse wheel around 60 copies. But before that, I want to say that it was the Party of Regions and its leader Janukovic who initiated the increase in the social benefits that they had been fighting for six months. So the first is not true, as if our law had added 60 copies to the minimum pension. I will remind the audience and all Ukrainian citizens that the minimum pension is set exclusively by the Law to a minimum of living. In 2008, the subsistence minimum was 498, and in 2009 it remained 498, and the pension was the same. But what does the government do? He was in March, realizing that the high inflation that rose from the baroque shoulders adds 28 dollars and 40 copies. But he did not comply with this norm since March, and he would never have fulfilled it, for he was afraid of the enormous sums needed before his retirement. And only after we voted with our colleagues and established a minimum pension of 573 bracelets did the government urgently find the money and introduce these payments. But he's doing it in the Jesuits' cynical way, he's adding up to the extras, and he's setting up 572 bracelets and 40 copies. Specially does not add 60 copies to the amount that we have made, especially to use it for political reasons. So, dear fellows, I want people to know, we've got 75 bucks in our pension allowance. But the government has failed to do so today and has failed to do so. So I want to say, our leader Janukovic said, "We will come to power and return these pensions and minimum wages from November 1st." We'll do it without you. One more moment, dear colleagues, here's the cynicism of your politics. They said we didn't pay the kids. The minimum wage for a child is 557 dollars. What the government of Tymoshenko does by making payments.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u69	Please complete, not half a minute, but ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u70	Timoshenko's government says the minimum level of living, and this level is 19.7 percent. And he pays 130 dollars to children under 3 years of age without adding, listen, compatriots, 450 dollars to each child, violating the Constitution, breaking the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u71	Alexander Mikolayovich, finish. Alexander Mikolaiovich! Vetwicki Dmitry Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u72	Dear colleagues! The Yulia Timoshenko bloc in the Supreme Council of Ukraine supports the work of the Minister of Denisova and the Head of the Pension Fund of the Manufacturing Fund. In my view, this has been the case today. There was an economic crisis around the world, we know, in 2009. There is a serious economic downturn in Ukraine. It's quite difficult to raise social standards now. The Ministry and the Pension Fund are doing this, implementing our law, which we passed at the Supreme Council of Ukraine. How timely was this law? To date, there are so many problems that need to be addressed and the budget needs to be filled. And we do. As a member of the budget committee and a national MP, I would like to say that we need to raise social standards, but we need to introduce bills to the Supreme Council and the Supreme Council's budgetary committee that not only spend money. How to spend today knows everything. And we need to fill out the budget. We have not had a bill to replenish the budget. It was therefore quite difficult for the Government to take and raise social standards, pensions and salaries for budget workers this year. We have every person in the country who knows if we want to spend more, have a family budget or a personal budget, we have to earn more or we have to take credit. How can we give them away? I think the Ministry has done its utmost to date, and the Government of Ukraine, the Government of Yulia Timoshenko, has done its utmost to implement the bill on the promotion of social standards for the promotion of pensions and the promotion of salaries for people working in the budget sector. This money, except from the budget, is not from where. But we have not considered a single bill on budgeting. It was simply a pre-election programme from the Party of the Regions to the presidency. In fact, instead of working in sweat on the bills that will fill the budget, we blocked the rostrum, the Party of the Regions, either around the Supreme Council of Ukraine or in good weather around the Supreme Council of Ukraine itself. This was the work of Parliament to increase pensions or salaries for budget workers. Nothing has really been done in Parliament. And the opposition was primarily where it allowed it to work and adopt these bills. And today we demand the Ministry of Higher Education. What they can do is a great credit to this day, because all are in compliance with the Cabinet of Ministers regulations and the Act on the Promotion of Social Standards. But political technology didn't work, and we see, this bill, it was drafted in this way, and in general, it was voted in the end that 60 copies of the pension, or 9 bracelets. Is that what you think people were waiting for?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u73	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u74	In my opinion, the Ministry and the Pension Fund work well. And Yulia Timoshenko supports the positive work
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u75	Dear colleagues, unfortunately, during the talks we mentioned the names of the national deputies, and now they have the right to a replica. Please, National Deputy Hara. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u76	To be honest, I did not want to react to the injury of this unworthy person, on whom “prints are no longer to be put, ” whose name is Ariev. A trade union property fighter, he defends the Ukrainian sanatorium and Jasna Polana, whose chief physicians have made their way through, who will be dismissed and against whom criminal cases are brought. He is not concerned about what is done beyond what he sees and knows, he is only interested in the opportunity to deceive, lie, and earn. Of course, it is a shame to listen to a full and sufficient person who is satisfied: even a small pension, but another, though not worthy, with a low wage, but another. He took care of himself! That is why I am ashamed of him and call him a “national MP”.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u77	National Deputy Stoyan, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, from the rostrum, it was said that the head of the Federation of Trade Unions could not be a national deputy. If that is the case, no political party leader can be a national deputy. Because the union is a public organization, and the public organization chooses its leader, and it's good that he goes to Parliament to protect people's interests. And when. But Moscal really should have gone. And on several occasions when he considered the regulatory committee on my compatibility, he was even in the Constitutional Court, the Constitutional Court and the regulatory committee admitted that Stoyan was entitled to be head of the Federation, but not to receive a salary, I didn't get one, and he had the right to be a national deputy. So it's very good that today Hara is a member of the Federation of Trades and has the right to legislative initiative, to protect people. You're not going to be able to remove it from that motive because it doesn't fit the law. Read the laws, read the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u79	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. I thank Ludmila Leontievni Denisova and Alexia Borisovich of Mine. We are moving on to the following issues of the agenda. Now we should be looking at the draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian State Budget Act on Medicine. And we also agreed yesterday that we would consider to the extent that we were willing to change to the State Budget for the Financing of Justice. Sadly, the budget committee did not prepare these documents for second reading. Nevertheless, the Supreme Council’s apparatus prepared tables for which suggestions were made in the session hall. So given the urgency of these issues, I've given the task now to the Chief Legal Authority to get them to work out these tables, and if there's any agreement in the session room, we'll be discussing these issues without a decision on the budget committee. For now, we have nothing to work with. So we continue to work on the draft Law on the purchase of goods, jobs and services at public expense. [[second reading]] [[Registration number 2263-1]] I invite Osika Sergey Grigorovich to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u80	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I'm reminding you that we've stopped at 127.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u81	Amendment 127. The committee recommends that we consider it. Is there a denial? None. 128. Amendment of the People’s Deputy of God’s Word The committee recommends a rejection. Do the deputies insist on considering this amendment? Don't insist. 129. Amendment of the People's Deputy of Burlakov. The committee recommends that we consider it. Is there a denial? None. 130 revisions. Is there a denial? None. 131 revisions. Is there a denial? None. 132 Amendment Is there a denial? None. 133 revisions. Is there a denial? Please, 133 amendments to the national deputy, Zebrovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u82	Dear colleagues, representing 133 amendments. In fact, it's an organ of complaint, it introduces a new concept as an organ of complaint. In fact, when a tender is held with the bidders, it is possible to appeal to the court. But we're also introducing another organ called the body of complaint. I'm not a supporter of the current situation when the purchase takes place with the sole producer, where there are enough corruption issues and rather questions to the Attorney General's Office to determine. But I actually have a question about whether or not we're restoring another corrupt authority in the public procurement system. I'm not inclined to be someone's evil will or someone else's. But actually, I have this question about this and are we restoring in the worst measure the tender room that.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u83	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u84	Which was before that. I, my dear colleagues, would simply ask and know that the World Bank is like this amendment, but in fact we are still the only body to put where corruption is serious enough and yet another corruption organ, in my opinion, we are entering. And I would ask you not to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u85	Please, Sergey Grigorovitch, the committee's argument.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u86	We always find it very interesting that there is no organ yet, and we're already giving him a sentence for corruption. This is not a very normal situation. But I'll tell you, first, where this organ came from. This is an international practice and I can quote a letter from the World Bank, which is based on a typical World Trade Organization agreement and a typical UNCITRAL Procurement Act, which is a trade commission, so to speak, the United Nations calls and requires the establishment of this body. Why? The fact that the law reserves the right to charge: First. The customer, it is only those who took part in the tender and the dissatisfied one considers that there is a violation. One. To the court, please, the person who complains has the right to do so, either to the court or to the client or to the prosecutor’s office. Question three. This is where these countries come out of practice, because the 15-day tender ended, as you know. The deal is made, the Treasury has written down the money and, please, go wherever you want and take care of it. That's why this body is created, which is made up of independent experts and 7 authorities. So, so to speak, the logic and the concept of this body. So he doesn't have the authority to intervene there, let's say he has one performer or something. All he can do is consider the complaint and express his opinion, including by referring to the court or the law enforcement authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u87	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u88	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! Of course, Sergey Grigorovitch, this is where the question arises. You understand why. We're giving our functions and our two committees, we're writing them down, having a few vetoes of the President on similar subjects, but I think that there should be some kind of body of accusation. I share the committee's opinion. But how can it be done to remove even the thought of corruption? Perhaps you have considered various questions. Paragraph 133 here stands: “In order to deal with complaints from the Ministry of Economics, a body of complaint is being created and the body of complaint is in operation.” What other organs have been considered? If you do that in the Court of Auditors, if you do that, is that actually the body of the Supreme Council of Ukraine? Have you considered such a proposal? Or with another organ? And will it not be blocked by the President on the grounds of unconstitutionality, as there are two specific parliamentary committees? Well, I mean Azarov and.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u89	Do you understand what this is about? First of all, where did it come from? I reported to the hall honestly that there was a very large deal going on with international institutions, experts on this issue. In fact, in one of the letters, so to speak, and the World Bank's proposals and so to speak, the European Commission was asked that these independent experts be approved by Parliament as a whole. That's why a compromise was found to have a partial parliament, a partial government and a representative of the President's Secretariat. There's nothing here. There's a balance here. And the experts themselves have to go through a pretty complicated procedure of competition, which is followed by this statement by two thirds. And there's a balance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u90	Tomenko Mikola Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u91	My colleagues, I also wanted to pay attention to the amendment of our colleague Gorina of the Party of Regions, because it's clear that she's the key here, in this law. I think these seven people, who are called independent experts, well, if they can't be independent experts because they're formed by two committees. Committees depend on someone, don't they? There's a committee, I understand there's a competition, everything else. But I do read that independent experts are included in the body of complaints of agreement with the Committee of the Supreme Council on Economic Policy. This, I understand, is the Committee of Tkachenka and the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Finance and Banking, the Committee of Azarov. That's my position. Now, the reporter just said, we have this formula, for example, on the National Council for Television and Radio, in other structures: committees run competitions, they pick people, they check biography, they check the appropriateness of the profession, and the Supreme Council votes. If we already have the weight of the issue so important, and we doubt not to restore the Chamber of Tenders, I also believe that it is not for the committees to do so, and then the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So I also believe that this amendment should be voted on, and I personally do not support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u92	Sergei Grigorovitch, please have your arguments. The microphone's on the stand.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u93	Text, it's not the result of any of my thoughts personally and so on. We've been working to make this situation balanced. It's a procedural law. It's all written down here to the point, to the point. And you could say that if we did.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u94	Sergei Grigorovitch is in the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u95	One year to approve these seven people, so we're going to do it all in our lives. There's nothing wrong here.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u96	Please, Deputy Undercover, regarding this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u97	Deputat Podgorny, faction of the “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman! I would like to draw the attention of all of us, especially our constituents, that two days ago, when we were considering one very important law, we were going through one procedure, and today we're going through a different procedure that I don't understand. We voted on each amendment regardless of whether it was taken into account or rejected or not. There's something different going on today. I would like the chairman to give me an answer as to why there is such a difference in the approach to laws, and the important one, and this very important law for the country and for our constituents.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u98	Dear People's Chamberlain! You would have received this answer from the sessional Hall of the Supreme Council if you had been present at the plenary meeting yesterday. The Supreme Council of Ukraine has the right to make decisions, in the manner defined by the Rules, and to determine how to make decisions in the second reading. Yesterday the Ukrainian national deputies unanimously decided that the second reading would be considered in the same way that it is today. No national MP present in the session room objected to this procedure. Please contact at least your colleagues by faction if you have such questions. Any more questions about 133 amendments? None. Amendment No. 133 of the People’s Deputy of Gorina is subject to a vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:55:42]] For 202 Correction not supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u99	We didn't make it? Dear colleagues, I am voting on the motion to return to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:56:11]] For 233 We're back. I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 133 of the People's Deputy of Gorin. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:56:31]] For 217 Correction not supported. The following 134 amendments of the People’s Deputy of God’s Word. Is there a miscalculation? Please, Sergey Grigorovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u100	The point is, conceptually, the law is broken by this vote right now. All the other rules in one way or another are still linked to one of the organs, either the authorized body of the Mineconomy or the commission of the prosecution. I didn't understand, by the way, why my colleagues from BUT didn't vote, although that's still an agreed issue with the government. That's why I'm proposing this. Let's go back again. If we don't vote, I suggest we take the law down, it doesn't make any sense. And every faction is going to show that it really wants to close a corrupt hole that's been going on for two years now, or that there's some kind of game going on here in any way. He wants to leave this abyss. Thank you. I think so. I just didn't make it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u101	Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, we must truly understand that this is a fundamental amendment, a body of appeal. If we do not vote in favour of this amendment, it will be totally corrupt. There is therefore an offer either to go back to voting or to really stop wasting your time on further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u103	Please, People's Deputy Kendzer.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u104	Jaroslav Kenzior, “For Ukraine!” Dear colleagues, you and I remember very well how many complaints there were about this glorious situation involving the Chamber of Commerce. The 133rd amendment essentially gives us a very serious danger of returning to solicitation room number two. If the reporter of this law says that the broken law, let's send a law to make it in such a way that, God forbid, Chamber No. 2 does not return to our lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u105	National MP Teryohin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u106	Well, dear fellows, it's about money again. Look, we had a situation where in that law that we canceled, there were representatives of a committee of the Supreme Council, now they're dividing into two committees of the Supreme Council. Let us take the people’s deputies away from there, for we remember how this ended. Let's take the committee representation there at all, and so let's keep working. There is a government body called the Ministry of Economics. In the structure of the Ministry of Economics, anything can be created. The body of the accusation is not a problem. But you don't have to hide from so-called specialists. We've seen these so-called specialists in past variations in the tender room.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u107	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u108	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. I'd like to make an offer, ladies and gentlemen. She's constructive, she's cohesive with what Tomenko said, and the others are now speaking. Where we write: “Independent experts are included in the body of complaints of agreement with the Committee of the Supreme Council on Economic Policy and the Committee on Finance”, to write: “The approved decision of the Supreme Council”. So we're going to have a constitutional decision of the Supreme Council, this is an analogy of what we have in our decision, where we take Nacrad, by other bodies, by the National Bank Council, that is, the decision is taken by a college body. And here he's going to check: Right, wrong committee. But some body of complaint, and it must have some independence: either the Court of Auditors, as we have already considered, or another body. If Parliament, I'd like to have this consideration, that's the option. This is completely painlessly incorporated into this text of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u109	Akimov's Irina Mikhailovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u110	Dear colleagues, I ask you to take this amendment very seriously. And I would like to recall that the establishment of an appeal body is a mandatory requirement of the World Bank; these are international standards for transparency in the procurement process. If we are to achieve transparency, we must take this seriously and establish an appeal body. In this body of appeal, there is a mixture: on the one hand, public servants, on the other hand, experts. This mixture has been adopted in the world, is used in other countries and is working. That's why I think she can work successfully in Ukraine. I recall that this body of appeal provides for very competitive procedures for the selection of persons to work in it. In addition, the Board of Appeal is set to work for three years, after which there is a competitive rotation of staff. I think that even these reasons are enough for you to be careful about the amendment and vote for it. Without it, it is not appropriate for me to pass the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u111	Please, Sergei. Wait a minute, Sergey Grigorovitch. Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u112	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues from the governing coalition, I suggest you or read carefully what your Minister of Economy of Ukraine writes, or withdraw it from office. Because you don't support what the Minister of Economics writes, that the Ministry of Economics supports Ukraine's draft law on the purchase of goods, asks to be supported in the second reading and in general. This is a letter to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Minister of Economics of Danilishin. So, please, get rid of who's right. That's one thing and the other, I'm totally in solidarity with those who spoke. In particular, the last speaker who speaks of the fact that, without this body, there really is no point in creating a law, for no one will control how these state purchases are done. So, Alexander Volodymyrovich, I ask you once again to put forward a motion for a vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u113	Please, Sergey Grigorovitch, your point of view?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u114	I just wanted to say two words about my friend and colleague Sergei Anatolyovich's remarks. There's nothing you can do to accuse the Mineconomy. This year alone, the mines produced four of the thousands of letters above for one performer. 70 percent of the tenders, and by the way, tens of thousands go through opaque procedures and sue those who commit these violations, that's, I'm sorry, a stupid way that back in the 20th century was wrong. I say it again, and I know what I'm saying, and I say it consciously. I didn't understand the position of my own faction because we voted for it and we had a plus. If this is a change in the sudden and unwillingness to pass this law, this is another matter. I urge everyone to support this amendment and move on so that we can finally have a normal law. Anyone who does not want to do so, let him show by vote. And, indeed, the Mineconomy has fully supported this bill twice, and the government has supported it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, let's just keep our emotions down and just answer our questions, we all want to have a perfect law. But the worst situation we can have is a situation of complete lawlessness, which is what we have for two years in this area. Whether we can make a perfect law is a big question. What we can do in an imperfect capacity can be done today. Or we can leave the situation to the point of total lawlessness. Perhaps this is a choice for someone. So I ask that we approach this issue carefully. I'm asking Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk to go back to solving the question of 133 amendments. I would like to vote on the return to consideration of this amendment. [[12:05:50]] For-198 The decision is not taken. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 36 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u116	Dear colleagues, we continue our work. Please, Sergey Grigorovitch, on the rostrum. Up to 134 revisions are denied? Any objections to 134? None. 135th, is there a denial? None. 136th, is there a objection? None. 137th. 138th? 138th, 139th is a unified amendment. Is there a denial? None. 140th. There's no objection. 141st. There's no objection. 142nd. There's no objection. 143th. There's no objection. 144th. There's no objection. 145th. There's no objection. 146th. Is there any insistence on taking into account the amendment of the national MP Popov? Don't insist. 147th. Is the national deputy Davidenko insisting? Don't insist. 148th. Is there an insistence on consideration? None. 149th. Is there a denial? None. 150th. Is there any insistence on considering this amendment? The committee recommends a rejection. None. 151st. Is there a miscalculation? None. 152nd. None. 153rd. Is there any insistence on voting on this amendment? None. 154th. Is there a denial? None. 155th. Is there any insistence on her consideration? None. 156th. Is there a denial? None. 157th. There's no objection. 158th. There's no objection. 159th. No objections 160th. There's no objection. 161th. There's no objection. 162nd. Is there an insistence on consideration? None. 163th. Is there an insistence on consideration? The committee recommends rejecting the amendment of the People’s Deputy of God’s Word. Is there an insistence? None. 164th. Is there a denial? None. 165th. Is there a denial? None. 166th. Is there a denial? None. 167th. Is there a denial? None. 168th. Is there a denial? None. 169th. Is there a denial? None. 170. Is there a denial? None. 171st. Is there a denial? None. 172nd. Is there a denial? None. 173th. There's no objection. 174th. Is there a denial? None. 175th. Is there a denial? None. 176th. Is there a denial? None. 177th. 178th. By 179, is there an insistence on her consideration? They don't insist on her. By 180 there's a denial? None. 181. Is there a denial? None. 182nd. Is there a denial? None. 183rd. Is there a denial? None. 184th. Is there a denial? None. 185th. It's recommended to reject. Is there any insistence on her consideration? None. 186th. Is there a denial? None. 187th. Is there a denial? I won't. 188th. Is there an insistence on consideration? None. 189th. Is there a denial? None. 190th. Is there a denial? None. 191st. There's no objection. 192nd. There's no objection. 193. Is there any insistence on her consideration? That's logical. No one insists on its consideration. 194th. Is there a denial? None. 195th. Is there a denial? None. 196th. Is there a denial? 197th. Nobody insists? No, it's not. 198th. Is there a denial? None. 199th. Is there a denial? None. 200th. There's no objection. On 201, someone insists. No one insists. 202th. Is there a denial? None. 203th. Is there a denial? None. 204th. Is there a denial? None. 205th. None. 206th. There's no objection. 207th. There's no objection. 208th. There's no objection. 209th. There's no objection. 210th. There's no objection. 211th. Does anyone insist? No, it's not. 212th. Is there a denial? None. 213th. Is there a denial? None. 214th. Is there a denial? None. 215th. There's no objection. On 216, does anyone insist? Nobody. 217th. Is there a denial? None. 218th. None. 219. None. 220th. None. 221st. None. 222nd. None. 223th. There's no objection. 224th. There's no objection. 225th. There's no objection. 226th. There's no objection. 227th. There's no objection. 228th. There's no objection. 229th. There's no objection. 230th. There's no objection. 231st. There's no objection. 232nd. There's no objection. 233th. There's no objection. 234th. No one's denying it. 235th. No one's denying it. 236th. There's no objection. 237th. There's no objection. 238. There's no objection. 239th. There's no objection. 240th. There's no objection. 241st. There's no objection. 243. Does anyone insist on considering this amendment? No one insists. 244th. There's no objection. Does anyone insist on 245? No one insists. 246th. Is there a denial? None. 247th. There's no objection. 248. There's no objection. 249. There's no objection. 250th. There's no objection. 251. There's no objection. 252nd. There's no objection. 253. There's no objection. 254. There's no objection. 255th. There's no objection. 256th. There's no objection. 257th. There's no objection. 257th. No one's denying it. 258. No one's denying it. 259. No one's denying it. 260th. No one's denying it. 261. No one's denying it. 262nd. No one's denying it. 263. No one's denying it. 264th. No objections 265th. No objections 266th. No objections Does anyone insist on 267? Don't insist. 268th. Is there a denial? None. 269, is Popov's national deputy insisting? No, it doesn't. 270th. Is there a denial? None. 271. Is there a denial? None. 272nd. Is there a denial? None. 273, 274, 275, 276. There are no objections to these amendments. 277 is recommended for deviation. Is there an insistence on the consideration and vote on this amendment? None. 278. Is there a denial? None. By 279, is there an insistence on her consideration and vote? None. 280th. Is there a denial? None. 281st. There's no objection. 282th, 283rd, 284th. There's no objection. Are the authors insisting on 285? Correction of the national deputies of Burlakov and Yatzenka The committee recommends a rejection. Is there any insistence on this amendment? None. 287th. Is there any insistence on her consideration? None. 288 revisions. Is there any insistence on her consideration? None. 289th. Is there a denial? None. 290th. Is there a denial? None. 290th. It's recommended to reject. Is anyone insisting on this amendment and voting on it? No, no one insists. 291st. Is there a miscalculation? None. 292nd. Is there a denial? None. 293. Is there a denial? There's no objection. 294th. Someone insists on reviewing the amendment of the People’s Deputy of God’s Word. The committee recommends a rejection. No one insists. On 295th? National Deputy Davidenko. People's MP's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u117	This is again the same question that I had yesterday. There are specially created state - owned enterprises that perform government orders. And according to the proposed edition, if my amendment is not taken into account, those specially created enterprises will participate in the tenders. So I'm still asking you to take into account my amendment and the specially created state-owned enterprises that order state-owned enterprises, so they don't, well, they don't have tenders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u118	Amendment No. 295 of the People’s Deputy Davidenko is subject to a vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:53:12]] For-13. No correction supported. 296th. Is there a denial? None. 297th. There's no objection. 298. There's no objection. 299th, 300th. After 301, is there an insistence on her consideration? None. The MPs don't insist. 302nd. Is there a denial? None. 303. Is there a denial? None. 304th. Is there a denial? None. 305th. Is there a denial? None. 306th, 307th, 308th? There's no objection. 309th. Is there a denial? None. 310th. Is there a denial? None. 311th. Is there any insistence on her consideration? None. 312th Amendment of the People's Deputy Davidenko. Is she insisting on it? No, it doesn't. 313th. Is there a denial? 314th Amendment. It is recommended that the national deputy Burlakov be rejected. Is the MP insisting on the hearing? Don't insist. 315th. Is there any insistence on considering this amendment? None. There's no insistence on the MP. 316th Amendment of the People's Deputy Davidenko. Is there a miscalculation? There's no objection. 317th Amendment. Do the deputies insist on considering it? Don't insist. 318th. There are objections to this amendment recommended by the committee. None. 319th. Is there a denial? There's no objection. 320th Amendment. Is there a miscalculation? None. 321st? There's no objection. 322 repairs? The National Deputy of Gorynoi. Is there a denial? None. 323 amendments, is there a objection? None. 324th? Is there a denial? None. 325th, is there a denial? None. 326 amendments, is there a objection? None. 327? There's no objection. 328? There's no objection. 329th? People's deputy Karmazin's microphone, please. There's a denial.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u119	Yuri Carmazin. I went to the committee on the point that in this amendment, paragraphs 27 and 28 of the transitional regulations conflicted with valid standards laws, technical regulations, procedures and conformity assessments, standardization, in conflict with the mass of international agreements. And I wanted to hear, Sergey Grigorovich, your point of view, how can technical committees that have been operating for over a decade be cancelled today, over 150. And who develop technical regulations or technical standards. And how that could ever be. So I think the committee should be, to say that such things could lead to the destruction of an existing network of technical committees and the destruction of an existing national system. And they are also in conflict with the principles set out in the U.S.S. So maybe you didn't know that.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u120	Please finish. Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u121	So I would like these points, 27 and 28, to be excluded. Because I gave the committee a full explanation. It's not included in the table. I've made my case. It's on a few pages, I don't want to take up your time, I've given the committee full justification.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u122	Please turn on the microphone of the rostrum. Arguments by Sergey Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u123	I think this can be supported because what they do here is they say it's primarily about meteorological work, it's usually done on the basis of one performer. If there's an insistence on the exclusion of chapters 27 and 28, that's acceptable.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u124	Please, Yuri Anatolyevich, specify. Now it's not about the whole amendment, it's about specific sub-items.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u125	Subparagraphs 27, 28, paragraph 3.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u126	Please, in the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u127	Indeed, there are only two subparagraphs 3: 27 and 28. I gave full justification to Sergey Grigorovich for the Transitional Regulations. I mean, it's okay, it's okay. And these paragraphs just have to be ruled out because they're in conflict with existing legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u128	Subparagraphs 27 and 28 of the amendment No. 329 of the National MP Gorina Yuri Anatoliyovich proposes to be removed, and the reporter Sergey Grigorovich Osika also proposes to accept the proposal of the Karamzin People’s Deputy. I'm putting this motion to a vote, please. “For”, please support. [[13:00:08]] For-94 This proposal is not supported. Honorable Fellows, 1:00 p.m. A recording of the “Variance” is being announced. Mr. Haydaev Yuri Aleksandrovich, please. Please, Valentin Grigorovich Matthews.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u129	Valentina Matviev, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to turn from the parliamentary rostrum to the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine to stop the lawlessness that some political forces are resorting to, saving their disastrously falling social ratings. The Communist faction repeatedly appealed to law enforcement authorities to counter the criminal facts of vandalism. Confused neofascists, whose thefts are financed by Nazi prodigal organizations, are not at peace with the monument to Volodymyr Ilchi Lenin in the center of Kiev and other monuments of the Soviet era. However, the inaction of law enforcement allows criminals who are convinced of absolute impunity to destroy national acquisitions without hindrance. This type of crime is promoted by the propaganda of nationalism and neofascism in the media, calls for the destruction of historical monuments. Ukraine’s Communist Party insists that the fate of Soviet monuments should be decided solely by the people of Ukraine. In fact, the so - called ultra right - hand politicians in the pursuit of voters actually speculate on the feelings of the citizens, trying to draw any attention to their own political power. They don't care that barbaric actions destroy the cultural acquisition of Ukraine, destroy part of Ukrainian history, fuel hostility within the country. And about the average citizen of Ukraine, some political forces, unfortunately, and this has become a system, are mentioned only a month before one or the other elections, including the presidential elections. Instead, speculation about a terrible tragedy, a truly terrible tragedy in the history of the Ukrainian people -- hunger, 1932-33. We honor all the citizens who have experienced this tragedy, and we recognize our moral obligation to apply historical justice. And it really is, and we're doing it all. However, we cannot agree with the violation by the Ukrainian Security Service of the criminal case of genocide in 1932-33. Thrilled by the number of public figures.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u130	Dear colleagues, National Deputy Schmelov Svetlana Alexandrovna hands over her right to speak to the National MP, Matthew. Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u131	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. The Ukrainian Security Service disregarded the law by following up on numerous public calls by President Yashchenka. I emphasize that there is no legal basis, and that is what every professional lawyer knows, there is no evidence of a criminal case based on genocide and a pretrial investigation. The Law on Criminal Responsibility, which establishes crime or increases criminal responsibility, has no reverse action at the time. Thus, the Security Service should have been governed by the Criminal Code of the U.S.R.R. or the U.S.R.R.R. in 1927, but it did not contain such components at that time. Furthermore, Ukraine’s criminal legislation, I stress, provides for a criminal offence against the deceased only for the purpose of his rehabilitation. In her opinion, the Security Service is engaged in the establishment of historical truth, but historical research, which already covers more than 250 volumes, involving more than one and a half hundred operatives, does not refer to the competence of the Ukrainian Security Service. Thus, the crime of genocide and the conduct of a criminal investigation by the Ukrainian Security Service is openly illegal. Such actions only undermine the fundamental principle of legality enshrined in the Basic Law, the Constitution of Ukraine. Today, an appropriate parliamentary request has been sent to the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine. Therefore, we ask for careful consideration of it – and for the lifting of illegal procedural decisions and for the closure of a criminal case violated in an illegal way by the Ukrainian Security Service. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u132	Vetwicki Dmitry Alexanderovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u133	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the situation in Ukraine with the gaming business. To date, the gaming business in Ukraine is banned, and a law was passed in June 2009. And, we know, so far, the dealers don't want to stop, the deals that run the gaming business underground. So there are several options, I think, between 5 and 10 percent of the gaming business is illegal, there are underground casinos, and there is a second option: just video games halls are transformed into virtual casinos, interactive clubs. But there, in these clubs, there's the same gambling, that's betting, there's gambling, there's winning. This is two different things: the Internet club, where people come for information on the Internet and drink coffee, or the second, halls where 10 bracelets are no longer worth working with the Internet, and at least 50 bracelets is already a bet, gambling and, in my opinion, we have a lot of laws in Ukraine, but not all of them are being implemented because there is not enough responsibility. Pieces of the game business aren't going to stop. First, this business has brought great distress and sorrow to the families of our citizens. Businessmen who held casinos and gaming slots have already broken enough pockets in our citizens and family budgets. People were selling apartments, cars were losing, and families were falling apart. I think it is necessary that I have been introduced and there are 16 other sponsors from various factions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a bill on criminal responsibility for the organization of a gaming business. I think deprivation of liberty, changes in the 4-6-year penal code for the organization of a gaming business, including a virtual one, should examine the dealers who are trying to keep this business alive. The gaming business, I want to stress, it's always directly linked to crime, illegal transactions, tax evasion and people, and I want to say how a budget committee member spent so much money there. The gaming business says, “We made money.” I want to say that, as a budget officer, we don't need to get into Ukraine's budget from the gaming business. First, hundreds of millions are drawn from people's pockets, and then 3 percent are carried into the budget, a small amount of money with which no issue can be solved. And the people who suffer from insanity, in fact, treatment of one person is at least 1,500 bracelets, says the medics. And there's no doubt that a ludoman can be cured. Since this gaming business has been operating in Ukraine, often children from 13 to 14 years of age have been sitting and losing money. Parents put breakfast at school and the dealers didn't look at it. That's why I think we lived without a game business and.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u134	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u135	We lived without a gaming business in Ukraine and will still live. There is a need to place a point and criminalize those who organize, which is already banned in Ukraine, a game business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u136	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u137	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, citizens of Ukraine! I would like to draw attention from this high rostrum to a problem that no one notices. Unfortunately, neither the President of Ukraine nor the Ombudsman notices it, nor is it known to the media. The point is that today, in fact, the situation of the 37th year, when closed hearings take place and decisions are made on it, today reigns wherever do you think? In the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. I am addressing the Committee on Legal Policy, I am addressing the Committee on Justice, I am addressing the Head of the Supreme Council of Lithuania, you, Alexander Volodymyrovich, as chairman of this session, so that you can give appropriate instructions for the establishment of a constitutional system in the State, because even the only body of legislative authority in Ukraine, which is the Supreme Council, as well as other members of constitutional conduct, are deprived of the right of direct participation in matters concerning the constitutionality of the contested laws. Since it is Parliament that is responsible for the legislative acts it has adopted, it seems strange to consider so - called written hearings that are nowhere in the law. I am not saying that the adoption of an anti-constitutional rule by the Constitutional Court as a body of legislative authority makes it impossible for the Constitution and the laws to be properly enforced. The conduct of these written hearings, which is conducted in a manner that is not defined by law, involves participants in specific judicial cases in connection with which they are deprived of the right to provide the necessary evidence, to bring to trial their scientific and legal doctrinal positions related to specific laws, to provide materials that do not contribute to the fullness of transparency and objectivity. There is also a negative practice when the requirements of article 72 of the Constitutional Court Act concerning compulsory participation in constitutional conduct in the case of representatives of the authorities, whose acts are challenged by the constitutional application of their constitutionality, are violated. There is absolutely no clear question about the appointment of the President of Ukraine as a matter of urgency in recent times. They are increasingly wearing purely political color. And so I would like to ask you to consider my statement as a parliamentary request to the above-mentioned persons. I would also like to highlight another problem facing the state. This is what happens to us today on the roads and at the rates of the excise congregation. We have three times the price in the next Belarus, and prices are the same as in Europe.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u138	Finish it, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u139	I'm done. I'm making you an offer. Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, honourable leaders of Parliament! Let's remember, on the roads, we get killed every year just because of the roads, because of the quality of the roads, about 8,000 people. We can stop this if we improve the quality of roads. And I suggest you review the excises so that a bunch of oligarchs don't take advantage of it to benefit the Ukrainian people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u140	The sand, Ivan Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u141	Thank you. Popescu, faction Party of the region. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the way in which the Cabinet of Ministers, its subordinates on the ground, really struggle with the effects of the flood in the Chernović region. And as an example, I would like to read you the answer to one of my requests from the Acting President of the village of Kostićana in Muntjan A.F. In response to your request, I bring it to your attention that the flood of 23-27 July 2008 in the village of Kostićana, according to an act of survey, affected 20 roads with a total length of approximately 17 kilometres. The road repair work was carried out by Unikoboud City of Kiev. However, at the end of the repairs, five roads remained unrepaired for a total length of more than 3 kilometres. This data was provided by the Kostican District Council, the head of the Novoselick RV of the Ukrainian UMS in the Chernović region to Mr. Melnik, as well as. The Novoselick region. Upon request No. 63 of 08.01.2009 and attached. The village dweller was requested to work out the repair of the roads. On 13 July 2009, it was therefore decided by the members of the village council to authorize repair roads at this section of the Dobrobut-B PP, Head of Lupoy Sergey Vladimirović. At present, roads have been repaired and are in good condition, but the repairs carried out by PP “Goodwill-B” have not been paid, although the money has been allocated from the State budget to repair roads to the village of Kostecana. I also bring it to your attention that in January 2009, Vice-Heads of the Novoselec District State Administration, Skrikulik S.E. I was provided for the signature of two “Avizo” acts which indicated that the roads that had been built in the village of Kostićana had been repaired and that the peasants accepted them on balance were attached. I refused because it was not true and illegal. Then she said that if I didn't sign it, I'd have a lot of problems, and the village of Kostichana wouldn't get any money to repair the roads. Please help us in this situation, to address this issue for the benefit and benefit of the people of the village of Kostićana. I would like to point out that this is not a single case, so I am addressing the Cabinet of Ministers and the relevant executive authorities in the regions and regions to resolve this issue. If they do not address this issue, the Office of the Attorney-General will do so. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u142	People’s deputies Gordienko and Beviz are handing over the right to speak to the national deputy Calletnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u143	Igor Kaletnik, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Dear colleagues! On another occasion, I would like to draw your attention to the massive violations by the head of the South West Railway, Krivopishina, and the need to put an end to his outright illegal activity. The systematic abuse of services, the theft of state property, the granting of illegal advantages to business entities is far from a complete list of the achievements of Krivopišin. During the years of his service on rail transport, the state has suffered such damage that it takes decades to restore its production capacity. As a result of successive illegal actions, he and his family became effective owners of the entire property complex of the Ukrainian Passenger Service Centre on Ukrainian Rail Transport. The illegal use of the commercial structures of the Hotel Express at the Chevchenka boulevard in Kiev and other properties causes millions of damage to the state. The situation was absurd when Krivopisin, on behalf of the company for free of charge, leased his commercial structure to the hotel’s premises and then rented a portion of the premises that still belonged to the state firm. Thus, government funds were transferred into private pockets, businesses formed into a wife, daughter, son - in - law, brother - in - law, and other relatives of the Krivopishina clan, as parasites were sucked into state property. With this baptized father of the South West Railway, Krivopishin has carefully created all the conditions for their prosperity, for the money of a well-known lease of state real estate in the city of Kiev, which has been granted from the state execution, interest-free loans, charitable aid, all at the expense of the budget. By stretching through parts of a powerful enterprise, Kriwopishin is irreparably damaging to Ukraine’s rail transport. Certainly Krivopisin has forgotten that he is the head of the state-owned enterprise and must care for the interests of the state, not about his own illegal wealth at the expense of the state. By 2005, the government had already tried to get rid of this leader. The crime was dismissed, and the Ukrainian Attorney General’s Office has been dismissed. About this great combine of Krivopišin managed to escape responsibility and reengage the post of head of the South West Railway. On his return, he continued to do what he best to do, to own state property. In 2007, it was only by means of timely controls that it was possible to stop yet another illegal privatization of state - owned property, an enterprise owned by another relative of Krivopišin. A particular aspect of this leader’s multifaceted illegal activity is the conduct of state - owned purchases, where businesses that are personally selected by the Crimson keep winning. The facts of the abuse of the service and the numerous violations by the director are obvious and are confirmed by law enforcement checks. That's why I'm calling on the General Audit Authority to conduct a comprehensive audit of the South West Railway activities from 2002 to 2009. The material of the tests should be sent to the Attorney General’s Office to make the relevant decision. In addition, I would like to address the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the immediate release of Krivopishin from his post as head of the South West Railway. Please consider my statement as a question of parliament. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u144	National MP Pavlovsky and national deputy Lukashuk pass on the right to speak to national deputy Kosov Mikhail Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u145	Mikhailo Kossov, "Club of Yulia Timoshenko", Party "Reforms and Orders". Dear fellow countrymen, I have a commission from an organizational committee headed by a famous academic named Miroslav Popovic to read this address to Ukrainian voters, presidential candidates and their teams, all of whom have no concern for the future fate of Ukraine. “Dear compatriots! The latest events of Ukrainian politics pose threats to the Ukrainian state and nations that cannot leave us indifferent. All of us who have signed the following are in pain over Ukraine’s fate and cannot stand outside the political battalions. Like you, we have already had an osmosis of scandals, sales, open housekeeping, and the self - centered trifle of the so - called political elite. Politics in Ukraine is well deserved to define the “dirty” that motivates more and more thinking people to distance themselves from it. Sadly, though, this political plane still has the basic real values that govern the lives of each one of us. Perhaps the invisible directors of this political spectacle are counting on us to care at some point about who and what purpose these scales have. We respect everyone's right to individual sympathy in politics, the right to political beliefs, ideological and world-viewed preferences. Regrettably, though, to repeat the unique situation when in the 2004 presidential election, all the patriotic forces came together around one common candidate, this time for success. We ask you only one thing: Be wise in the second round of voting, which in this difficult situation must be waiting for us. Do not let your will be governed by emotion, discouragement, and indifference. We stood near that limit in 2004 and never seemed to get close to it again. But history tests our patience and our conscience, so we need to learn from it. One of these lessons today is that the will and Ukraine must stand as long as it takes. And it's worth one step back to lose the fruits of a hundred years of competition. We call on all patriotic candidates for a presidential position in Ukraine and their sympathizers not to stir up old misunderstandings, not to engage in self-determination and conflict. Let's leave all of this behind for the post-election period. So in the second round, we all, the patriots of Ukraine, should come to the polls and say no to the foreign authorities. Instead, unite around the candidate who comes out of the democratic forces on the second tour and then begins the principle and complex, with the rest, of agreeing on our principles. We address all democratic candidates to the Presidents of Ukraine, to all those who care about the fate of Ukraine, with the invitation to join us. Your wisdom and your political maturity depend on the fate of our homeland. Under this reference is 35 signatures. These are, in addition to the organizer of this statement, the Academy of Miroslav Popovic, other representatives of the academic forces, are representatives of the creative communities of Ukraine: the associations of writers, artists, representatives of the community of folk creativity, these are the famous artists of Ukraine, these are the heads of political parties, these are politicians, particularly the national deputies of Ukraine. A list for whether or not the signature is open. It's on the Internet. We're also going to put this call in the media in all the districts where we work. So I'm once again, and once again, I want to say that from how serious each of you, your fellow countrymen, will be to our goodwill and will depend on the future of Ukraine. I assure you that whoever gets out of the second round of national democratic representatives, we commit ourselves.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u146	The Kamchatny People’s Deputy hands over the right to speak to the national deputy Gnatkewicz.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u147	Yuri Gnatvevich, Yulia Timoshenko Block. I was also present at the meetings of representatives of the public and politicians, as spoke of by my colleague Mikhailo Kosov. I will not say that these congregations were joyful and joyful. What were we talking about? First of all, we mentioned what we were fighting over in Maidan, we were fighting over the theories and practices of kushmism, and kushmism is a practice of plundering state property, and continuing the disintegration of Ukrainians. The Midian was a battlefield between the people that had been stolen and those who had stolen state property. Midan was a battlefield between those who wanted to build a truly Ukrainian national state and those who were going to build another Russian state, either on one part of Ukraine if our country were only formally called Ukraine. It's been five years since President Viktor Yushchenk's main mission, the historic mission of President Viktor Yushchenk, and all of us would have been to unite around the President of all national patriotic forces into one mighty party. Instead, we see today that the national patriotic forces are scattered and confused more than ever in 20 years. It is very difficult for the orange forces to bring their representative to Parliament right now. Look, if in 2004, Victor Yushchenko was already considered a national Ukrainian leader, if then he was friendlyly supported by all the national patriotic forces, if there were no other candidates, if a revolutionary Majdan spoke for him, if he had the whole orange business elite on his side, if he was protected by the Supreme Court, then even under such conditions all together he could barely push the words "Jushchenka" into the presidents until after the third round of the election. Today, in Donbas, Viktor Yushchenko did not increase his rating, and in Kiev and Western Ukraine, he reduced his rating. What's more, the oranges were moved today, except for Yushchenk, Yulia Timoshenko, Yuri Kostenka, Oleg Tsagnibok, to all Ukrainian patriots. Janukovic's coming to power for nationalists is extremely dangerous because he will be returned to his post as vice-premier to Dmitry Tobacco, which will close, as it has closed, the course of Ukrainian language and Ukrainian rebirth in Kiev in eastern Ukraine. It's scary to even think about, 'cause this time they're gonna be here for a long time. This will also put an end to the hopes of returning stolen deposits, for they can only be returned at the expense of the oligarchs. Majdan did not prove his historic mission until the end of the Ukrainian Patriots have to consider, consider today's elections as a continuation of the orange revolution, realizing that Janukovitch is the permanent reign of the oligarhat and the continuation of the Russians. We have to worry, not about ambitions, but about how to put a man on the second round who can beat Yanukovich there. Although, in our opinion, it is most obviously Julia Timoshenko. But if Yushchenko makes it on the second round.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u148	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u149	Grizzenko, Kostenko, Tuggnibok, we are all voting in favour of this candidate for the Presidents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u150	Please, Vernidubov Ivan Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u151	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! By decision of the General Assembly of the United Nations on December 09, it is the International Day to Combat Corruption. In 2003, the United Nations Convention against Corruption was opened for signature in the Mexican city of Merida. This convention, which took effect in December 2005, sets out action on public service ethics and anti-corruption, both in the public and private sectors. Recently completed in Qatar’s Doha City, the third series, the session, the conference of the Meridian Convention adopted a mechanism to review the implementation of this legal tool against corruption at global level. As we know, our Parliament ratified the UN Convention against Corruption in October 2006. This summer, a package of anticorruption laws was adopted. The enactment of these laws on the 18th of July allows our nation to become party to the UN Convention as soon as possible. But we know that the convention clearly stresses that responsibility for overcoming corruption rests on the state. The convention, which is based on, including the situation of time-tested European 20 guiding principles in the fight against corruption, the Criminal Civil Convention in the fight against corruption, has offered us a comprehensive package of global anti-corruption standards. By improving international cooperation in this area, we today have the opportunity to put in place real, highly effective anti-corruption, organized crime and the legalization of dirty funds. The success of this work will be much better, given the involvement of civil society institutions, including the private sector. In this regard, I want to draw attention to the tenth principle of the United Nations, the global treaty, the basis of cooperation with business. Business circles should fight against all forms of corruption, including extortion and extortion. The Parliamentary Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption, based on the fact that anti-corruption creates an atmosphere of legality and an enabling environment for socio-economic development, supports democracy and increases domestic and foreign investment, reduces the impact of organized crime, and the issue of reforming anti-corruption legislation is a key priority. Among other things, the committee is guided by the recommendations of a group of states against corruption and the recommendations adopted in the Istanbul Plan to Combat Corruption, the Network to Combat Corruption in Eastern Europe and Central Asia. In recent times, the committee has twice held hearings on anti-corruption and transparency issues in the public sector. With the participation of the president of the group of nations against the corruption of Drago Kos, a round table was held on 16 November of this year on the theme: “The Ways of Improving.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u152	Ivan Vasilovich, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u153	legislation. Dear colleagues, as we celebrate the international day of fighting corruption, let us unanimously support the slogan of the global anti-corruption campaign “Yours Does Not Matter”. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u154	Kenzior Jaroslav Mikhailovich. And he's also given his right to speak by national deputy Stojko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u155	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Dear voters, distinguished compatriots! I cannot help but react to the first speech by Communist Matthew, to which, unfortunately, no, speaking after him, the so-called National Democrats Mikhailo Kosov and Mr. Gnatkevitch completely, as it were, missed the insolent, anti-Ukrainian, anti-Ukrainian performance. It is already well known that all the political structures and the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and the OSCE have recognized at the official level that German and Soviet fascism are two twins, these are two siblings who have definitely destroyed: those other peoples, and these have destroyed their own people. So today to stand up and talk about what, you see, the Ukrainian Security Service and part of the Ukrainian authorities insist on opening up, eventually, the open criminal case by the Security Service about crime at the time of the famineous sea for 32-33 years, and here to prove that there are no legal grounds, this is more than hypocrisy and cynicism of this political force. I think without further ado, but having expressed my view of this position, I think a court hearing that will continue to be a criminal case already, listening to a criminal case prepared by the Ukrainian Security Service, that the final chord of this court hearing should be the condemnation and prohibition of this ideology, the determination, although postmortem, and the confession of criminals by all the leadership of the Soviet Union and, so-called Soviet Ukraine in the organization of these crimes. Most importantly, the decision of the court prohibits the activities of the Communist Party today and prohibits the activities of their leaders today. And I want to raise another subject. I'm asking a rhetorical question. Dear fellow countrymen, did you answer one question: “Why does the Kremlin, the Kremlin’s leadership, hate today’s President Victor Yushchenk so fiercely? For what? Why? Why did the allies in this hatred, in this rage towards the President here in Ukraine, become Communists, become part of the Party of the Regions and part, a large part of the Party of the Yulia Timoshenko and, most importantly, its leader, Yulia Timoshenko? Why did they unite in this hatred for today’s President? The answer is in itself: Because Victor Yushchenko characterizes Ukraine as such. Viktor Yushchenko finally, in his 18th year, declares all his 5 years of presidency that he is the truth of the Ukrainian President, from flesh, blood and spirit. And this very identity of the President's person, what Victor Yushchenko is doing is to make millions of people, Ukrainians, who are the same communist ideologies, misrepresented in their position and in their consciousness, who don't know who they are, where they come from, which is the greatest danger to all Ukrainian haters, because they understand that if most of the Ukrainian society understands who they are, where they come from and what their mission in the Ukrainian State, they understand that with such a people, worthy of knowing their own history, it's very easy to build a national Ukrainian state. And so now that Julia Volodymyr is said to be the only candidate of the national democratic forces and needs to be supported, I want to say two pairs. And that's why the Kremlin puts both on each and the other. This last statement by Putin, a public one, is not a coincidence that he said he does not support Julius Volodymyrna, for these ties by Julia Timoshenko to the Kremlin are so obvious that the rating of this policy has fallen rapidly, and so it was necessary to make such a signal in the Kremlin to divert this accusation from Julia Timoshenko. But I am convinced that Ukraine is starting to wake up from this political lethargy, and Ukraine is beginning to understand who can preserve the Ukrainian state on national soil, on a national basis, and establish this state forever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u156	Young Andrew Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u157	Paubai Andry, "Our Ukraine", the parliamentary group "For Ukraine!" Today in Kiev, the 13th EU-Ukraine summit is taking place, and to my deep conviction, this is an important step in Ukraine's integration into the European Union, because it is important to remember that Ukraine's integration into the European Union is not just a geographical or economic choice, it's a civil choice. After all, Ukraine is part of those nations that have actually created European civilization as such. In its time, the Russian-Ukrainian Russia was this state that created as the foundation of European civilization, and in fact today our integration into the political unification of the countries of Europe, integration into the EU -- this is, as President Viktor Yushchenko of Ukraine said, this is the way home. At the same time, it should be noted that after making a great deal of success on the road, we have some flaws. As for success, it should be noted that over the five years of the Yushchenka presidency, we have been able to significantly increase the trade between Ukraine and the countries of Europe. We were able to increase investment from the European Union to Ukraine several times. We have been able to sign a number of agreements that make our cooperation much more effective and systematic today. But we also have to admit that we could have done much more if we were on our way to the European Union, not only President Yushchenko but also the government and the Ukrainian Parliament. If both government and parliament are to be analysed, there are some very obvious and very, let's say, unpleasant things. This applies to both the government of Yanukovich and the government of Timoshenko. During the two cadences of the work of those governments, they were actually gradually and gradually destroying the foreign political authority of our nation. Here, in that room, these two biggest factions -- BUT and the Party of Regions -- have removed the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ogryska only for defending state interests and national values. Here, in that room, they subtly reformed the Ukrainian Constitution, derogating from the principles of European law. They have not actually taken any steps during this period to demarcate the Ukrainian border with Russia. And until this demarcation is done, we will not be able to continue the dialogue on the visa-free regime and the visa-free entry of Ukrainians into the European Union. And that is why today I want to encourage both the BUT and the Party of Regions, which recognise the need for Ukraine's integration into the EU in their programmes. But they go to the Kremlin, looking for their political support, forgetting the Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u158	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u159	I want to urge both the Party of Regions and the Yulia Tymoshenko Block to move away from the practice of warming the northern neighbour, not to think about political ambitions, not their desire to become presidents of Ukraine, but to think about the national interest of our country and to support the journey to the European Union of President Viktor Yushchenk of Ukraine. This is the only way we will be able to quickly and effectively go through the path that today separates Ukraine from the European Union, to bring Ukraine back to Europe in the full political sense that it, as an equal, can shape the future of the world and the future of European civilization. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-04-m0.u160	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that on December 9th at 15:00, Parliamentary hearings will be held in the session hall on the theme “The National Identity in Ukraine in the Face of Globalisation Challenges: Problems and Ways of Preservation”. And our next plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will begin at 10 a.m. on Tuesday, December 15. The morning plenary session is closed. Good luck.
