ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies and guests of the Supreme Council! Please prepare for registration. Please enable the "Council" system. [[10:01:08]] There were 437 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The morning plenary session is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the National Deputy of Ukraine Zviagilski Yuhim Leonidovich. We wish him good health. [[Applause]] Let me inform you about the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the February 19th plenary meetings. During the day, 28 issues of the agenda, 22 bills and 16 draft regulations were discussed. As a result of the review of 9 laws and 6 regulations, 1 bill was passed on the basis, 3 bills were sent for re-reading, 1 bill was returned to the committee for further re-reading, 7 bills and 3 draft decrees were rejected. Dear colleagues, today in accordance with the Supreme Council’s regulations, have a separate order of work. In addition to what we now have on the agenda for today, we have one question concerning the organization of the life-form of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And I would like to ask now, in five minutes, the heads of the deputy factions to come up to the office of the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for a brief meeting to address the issue of ensuring the viability of the Supreme Council for the coming period, while Mikola Volodymyrovich announces the parliamentary questions. Please, Mikola Volodymyrovich, ask questions. And I'm going to ask you to go upstairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u2	Dear colleagues! A request was received from the Ukrainian national deputies. Andrija SKILLY to the President of Ukraine on the adoption of measures to prevent the destruction of three pieces of architecture in the historic center of Kiev, on the street of Pyrogova, 2 and Bogdan Hmelnicky, 37-B, as well as the prohibition of illegal construction near them. Let me remind you that to the President we first include at least one third of the votes, and then we send at least 226 votes. Therefore, I would like to vote in favour of Andrew School's request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[10:03:57]] For 274 Request supported. Now I would like to support the President’s request to prevent the destruction of history in Kiev. I'd like to vote in favour of sending it to the President. [[10:04:22]] For 313 Request directed. The request by Vladimir BONDARENK to the President of Ukraine regarding the intentions of the Kiev City Head Leonid Czernovetské to re-prove teenage clubs in Kiev from the centres of education, education, the formation of the child's personality to an additional source of financial resources into the city's budget. Please support the request of Vladimir Bondarenko. [[10:05:02]] For 315 Request supported. Now we have to vote in favour of sending it to the President. Please support that the request of Vladimir Bondarenko be sent to the President, please vote. [[10:05:24]] For 327 Request directed. Vladimir POLOCHALA to the President of Ukraine on the unprecedented delay of the Office of the President of Ukraine in implementing the decision of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine of 21 November 2008 on the right and protection of intellectual property and its role in the formation of national wealth. Please vote in favour. [[10:06:05]] For 342 Request supported. And now I ask you to support the President's request for Vladimir Polochalo. Please vote. [[10:06:27]] For 344 Request directed. Igor ŠAROV to the President of Ukraine on the assessment of the actions of the relevant authorities and officials of the state in the release of a pirate-occupied crew off the Somali coast of Faina and the need to produce a system of measures to prevent similar situations. Please vote in favour of Igor Sharov's request. [[10:07:03]] For-360 Now for the President's address, please vote. There's a criticism here that we've already released, and we need to evaluate the work of the power structures as well. Please vote. [[10:07:27]] For 351 Decision taken. Mikhail PAPIJEVA and Volodymira PILIPENKA to the President of Ukraine for the creation of competitive conditions for aviation services in the State Enterprise International Airport Borispil. This is the last one for the President. Please determine how to vote. [[10:07:58]] For 341 Request supported. And I would like to vote in favour of sending the request to Michael Papiev and Vladimir Pilpenka. [[10:08:19]] For 332 Decision taken. Mr. Vladimir BONDARENKA to the Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Science and Education, Vice-Prime Minister of Ukraine Ivan Vasjunik, on the intentions of the Kiev City Head Leonid Chernewsky to re-profil the teenage clubs of the city of Kiev. Valery BEWZA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the situation of 48 missile and ammunition disposal arsenals and the separate storage of components of the missile fuel of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine. VICTOR PAULENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for urgent measures to continue financing road repairs in Kamyanec-Podilski Hmelnicka oblast. VICTOR PAULENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to take urgent action to continue funding for the work in the Hmělnice region. Vitalia BARVINENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on human resources policy of the Ukrainian Department of Maritime and River Transport. Vladimir LEMZI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about the beginning of the construction of the first line of the main gas pipeline in Odessa region: Tarutine - city of Arciz - city of Tatarbunari. Vladimir LEMZI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the ecological state of the coastal watershed of Odessa. Vladimir YAROSCHUKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the State Tax Administration of Ukraine, on an unjustified response to the MP's appeal and unfounded refusal to pay the tax on the added value of the domestic producer to the state-owned company of Melitopol Hydromash. Eugene ZARKOVA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of Ukraine, on the illegal removal of land in the city of Odessa occupied by parking lots to transfer them to commercial structures. Constantine BONDAREV to the first deputy head of the Ukrainian Security Service and the minister of the Ukraine’s internal affairs regarding the gross violation of current legislation by acting as head of the Chief of Land Administration in Kiev. Mr. Mikoli Tomenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the inadequacy of joining the state-owned enterprise “National Olympic Sports Complex” of other state-owned enterprises in the administration of the Ukrainian Ministry of Family Rights, Youth and Sports. Mr. Mikoli Shershun to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Ukraine for Emergency Situations and Protection against the Consequences of the Chernobyl Disaster, on the appeal of the Regional Union of Chernobyl to non-execution in the Ternopil region of Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine No. 1589. OLEGO ZARUBINSKI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the illegal activities of the Ministry of the Interior in the area of family, youth and sports in the area of granting status as a national federation. Alexander DONI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the concealment by the Ministry of Education and Science of the possibility of illegal financial transactions by budgetary means. Alexander ŠEPELEVA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of measures to prevent the heating of housing. Petra KUZMEN to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for a gross violation of the law in force by acting as head of the Chief of Land Administration in Kiev. SERGEANT GORDIENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the Poltava District Administration, on the non-lethalization of gas to the nomads of the Horol region of Poltava. GREENEVECH to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the transfer to the balance sheet of the South Ukrainian National Pedagogical University of Education Funds of the Odessa Institute of the Land Army. BACHTE'S aunts to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the breakdowns in the treatment of tuberculosis patients due to the absence of anti-tuberculosis drugs in Ukrainian medical facilities. LITHUANIA’S Jury to Ukraine’s Prime Minister, Ukraine’s Minister of Agriculture Policy, for the protection of the interests of Ukraine’s domestic producers of alcohol. Mr. Artema CINCI to the Minister for Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Attorney General, on the forceful capture of the public reception of the national MP Artema Cinicia at the address of the city of Kyiv, 2A Street of Zoe Hayday, by whom. 10-11. BONDIC's Valery to the Head of the Ukrainian State Committee on Technical Regulation and Consumer Policy on the Systematic Compliance with the Provisions of Actual Legislation by the Head of the State Enterprise “The Ukrainian Research and Training Centre for Standardization, Certification and Quality Issues”. Victoria DEMJANČUK to the Minister of Justice, the Attorney General, on the failure to take effective action to ensure that decisions are implemented by a court that is not carried out for more than two years as a result of the inaction and deliberate misconduct of employees of the State Enforcement Service of the Vinnick City Department of Justice. Vladimir ARYEVA to the first Deputy Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Court, the Chief Executive, the Attorney-General, on the efforts of criminal groups under cover and in favour of some high-ranking people to capture more than 328 hectares of forests from the first group of the State Foundation, recreational, health, treatment and climate change, located within the European watershed and performing an important role in the formation of the northern and southern Baltic and Black Seas basins. [[Monuments of European Significance]] Vladimir BONDARENKA to the Head of the State Committee on Technical Regulation and Consumer Policy of Ukraine, Minister of Justice, Attorney-General, on the inaction of the executive service of the Borodian Region of Kiev to implement the decision of the Kyiv District Economic Court of 2 March 2006 for a limited liability association "Agrostro" to the open stock company "Borex" to carry out a commitment by handing over two exquators of the brand "Borex-2102". Gregory OMELČENA to the Minister of Internal Affairs, the first deputy of the Head of the Board of Directors, the Attorney General, on the urgent steps taken to establish all the participants in the assassination of journalists Valery Vorotnik and Vladimir Mamaliga, on February 16, 2009, in Cherkasa, and to bring the guilty to justice. Edouard PRUTNIK to the Ministry of Culture, the First Deputy Minister of Finance, the President of the Ukrainian Corporation "Krestauration", the Head of Culture and Tourism of the Chernigian District Administration, the Head of Urban Management and Architecture of the Chernigiv District Administration on the need to take steps to determine the status of the architectural monument of the Holy Ducal Church of the Borzn city of the region of Chernigiv and the completion of the project and restoration works of the complex of the Holy Church. Mr. Ivana DENKOVIĆA to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine regarding the non-use of measures by the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea on the long and unobjective investigation of traffic accidents that resulted in the death of citizens of Anatoly Atamánczuk and Viktor Ponomarenko. Mr. JIGA to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Attorney General for numerous thefts from car parlors parked near the Olympics and Antonovich Street. Mikoli Shershun to the Ministry of Defense for the use of urgent measures to preserve the infrastructure of the Chortkow military airport in the Ternopil region. OXANA BILOSIR to the President of the Academy of Sciences of Ukraine regarding the study of the appropriateness of the adoption by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of the cancellation of the monthly release of GDP by the State Committee of Statistics, in view of possible intentions of concealing the real state of affairs in Ukraine’s economy. [[Decision]] ON THE danger to Ukraine’s defence of the state of affairs in the military section of A 3749 and the demoralization of its special composition by its commanders. Ms. Alexander Goluba to the Minister of Internal Affairs on the investigation of violations detected by the Supreme Audit Authority of Ukraine in the activities of the All-Ukrainian Society of Education and the private enterprise "Producer Centre Martin" during the film "Maestro Berezowski". Ms. Aleksandra ŠEPELEVA to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy on the application of measures to protect the unemployed. Helen BONDARENCO to the State Tax Administration for Possible Corruption by the Ministry of Internal Affairs. OCIKI to the Minister of Transport and Liaison on the need to take measures to eliminate artificial monopolies at Borispol International Airport. SERGEANT to the First Deputy Head of the Security Service of Ukraine Valentina Navejchenka, Attorney General of Ukraine, on the legality of the "Donetsk Republic" movement. Jury CARMAZINA to the Minister of the Interior, the Minister of Economy, the Head of the State Committee on Technical Regulation and Consumer Policy, acting as Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, the Attorney-General on the verification of the conspiracies of leading monopolists in the market for the sale of petroleum products, the unwarranted increase in their prices of fuel-oil materials, particularly diesel fuel, the inaction of this issue from the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, which generates billions of profits to monopolists, affects the pricing of other products, including the incomes of ordinary citizens and small businesses, the use of measures to establish well-founded prices for oil products and to bring those responsible. Jurya CARMAZINA to the Ministry of Health, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Head of the Kiev City Administration for the verification of the abuse of office, the admission and destruction of state, municipal property, the purposeless use of budgetary resources, the corruption of officials of the Kyiv City State Administration, and the use of appropriate measures. Oleg BILORUS AND EUGEN GOOD TO THE First Deputy Head of the National Bank of Ukraine for the cancellation of debts or the transfer of special facilities to the municipal property of the city of Malina. Mr. Andria PAVLOWSKI to the Attorney-General for the prevention of the illegal actions of the Kyiv city authorities when moving to a nursing home for elderly single citizens. Andrija PAVLOWSKI to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the failure of the city authorities of Kiev to privatize the educational institutions of Kiev. VALETINA ZUBOVA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the gross violation of the labour law and the abuse of the office of minister in matters of family, youth and sports by Yuri Pavlunka during his release from office as Head of the Legal Department of Vladimir Kononenko. Valerija PRIZARENKA to the Attorney General regarding the criminal offence in connection with the arbitrary acquisition by Ukrainian citizen Volodymyr Stelma of the authority of the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine and the deliberate failure of the President of Ukraine to implement decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the activities of the National Bank of Ukraine during the financial crisis. Vassil GREECE to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of possible corruption in the Zacarpathian Branch Department and the legality of its use of the Alpha Unit. Vassil KRAVČUKA to the Attorney General for the examination of the facts of abuse, exceeding the authority of the city’s head, Igor Kondratuk, of the Isiaslav City Council of Hmeljna District. VICTOR SINCHENKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the verification of compliance with applicable laws when transferring property to the Kyiv district consumer association of the Kyiv Regional Association of Consumer Cooperation. Viacheslav KOVALJA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the need to intervene with the Attorney General's Office in a situation that has arisen in the City of Dnipropetrovsk, “Academy List”. Gregory OMELČENA to the Attorney-General regarding the provision of information on the implementation by the Attorney-General of the Resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe on the investigation of crimes committed by senior officials during the rule of the House in Ukraine - the Gongad case - as an example. GREGORY to the Attorney General on the verification of financial abuse by the Daughter of the Bank of Ukraine NAC Naftogaz Ukraine. Ms. Dmitra SPENOVA to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the inappropriate examination of the parliamentary appeal concerning the provision by the Regional Chamber of Commerce and Industry of information on the acts issued. Ms. Yevgen KARJKOVA to the Attorney General on illegal and criminal acts against the National MP. Caterina VASCHUK to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the legal rights of members of the farm farms of the village of Obodia Bilopil Region and the village of Severinovka in the Suma district of Mikoli Brazkun and Roman Brazkun to rent land. Kirila KULIKOVA to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the legality of the closure of a criminal case committed against a councilman of the city of Kiev on the issue of freedom of speech by Kazbek Bektursunov on the suspicion of his depraved juveniles. MICHELLA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the use of emergency measures to halt raids on the Open Association of the Fifth Elevator in the Dnipropetrovsk Region. OXANI BILOSIR to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the purpose of bringing to justice the civil servants of the Kyiv City State Administration and officials of the secretariat of the Kiev City Council who prepared and agreed on draft documents that violate the current legislation of Ukraine, such as the decision to pay visits to city cemeteries, the establishment of paid services in the health and extra-school facilities of Kyiv. Oleg LUKASUKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the need to take action in the area of the management of the private scientific and technical firm "The Union". [[The city of Hmelnicki]] ROMAN ZAZALJECK to the Attorney General of Ukraine for an improper consideration of the appeal of the Ukrainian national deputy. GORDIENKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the protection of the constitutional rights of citizens of Poltava who are investors in the credit union Akcord. Victor SINCHENKA and Katerina VASCHUK to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the removal of the Kharkiv Science and Production Company Sintal'D from the calculation of sugar production with the agricultural production cooperative "Batekshina" of the Kotelev region of Poltav region. Vladimir RIBAKA and Alexander POPOVA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for not allowing the disconnection of life - support facilities from heating during the heating season. Mikoli JIGA and Svetoslav PICUNA to the Attorney General on the violation of antimonopoly legislation by the State Enterprise "Borispol International Airport". Eduard PRUTNIK to the Prosecutor of the Chernig region, the head of the Czernig region’s rajada, the head of the Czernig region, the city’s head on the verification of the facts presented in the address of the head of the farm, Gregory Loboda, and the creation of appropriate conditions for the free use of a common road on the street of Independence, 8th of the city of Borzna in the Chernig region. Dear colleagues, these are the questions that have come. And I am also asked by National Deputy Lissin to read out the following statement: “Please withdraw the parliamentary requests for Finance Minister of Ukraine Pinzenik at number 1031007 and Head of State Administration Motrenko’s number 104107, issued on 05. 02. This Regulation shall enter I read it. Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask the national MPs more actively to communicate, especially with one faction, because I've read a few parliamentary queries that are exactly the same from one question that came up with three questions from one faction. I think in order for us to look more serious, it's probably better for the three deputies to sign one request instead of making three separate queries. And since a whole series of questions were about the city of Kiev, I have been asked to talk to you in the Presidium so that our commission, which we formed yesterday after Kiev, and 383 national deputies voted, would immediately come together because you know the difficult situation in Kiev. A third of the MPs' requests apply to Kiev, because yesterday I met with representatives, children's kindergarten and school leaders, because if the commission doesn't work, this Saturday and Sunday all grandparents, grandparents, moms and dads are now drawing pictures and sticking out of plastic and clay to sell baby pictures and counting to maintain the Kiev City Administration. Let us let our children and parents rest on Saturdays and Sundays, not pictures and pictures of Czerniewecki’s portraits. So I would ask the commission to work actively, and we would immediately consider the matter of the commission of inquiry. Dear colleagues, as we agreed on Friday, we are starting our work from the reports of the temporary commission of inquiry. Today we have a question - a report from the Provisional Investigation Commission on the investigation of violations of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Land Code of Ukraine, other laws of Ukraine by the Ternopil City Council, the failure of the courts to execute decisions on the removal, transfer, use of land, as well as on the abuse of services in the administration of property and the inaction of the prosecutor's organs on the violation of Ukrainian legislation in the activities of the City Council. The interim commission proposes to consider the following rules: in order to report to the head of the Temporary Investigator, my parliamentary requests for the Minister of Finance of the Republic of Pinzenik at number 103107 and the Chief of State Service of Motrenk, number 104107, submitted on 05. 02. This Regulation shall enter I read it. Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask the national MPs more actively to communicate, especially with one faction, because I've read a few parliamentary queries that are exactly the same from one question that came up with three questions from one faction. I think in order for us to look more serious, it's probably better for the three deputies to sign one request instead of making three separate queries. And since a whole series of questions were about the city of Kiev, I have been asked to talk to you in the Presidium so that our commission, which we formed yesterday after Kiev, and 383 national deputies voted, would immediately come together because you know the difficult situation in Kiev. A third of the MPs' requests apply to Kiev, because yesterday I met with representatives, children's kindergarten and school leaders, because if the commission doesn't work, this Saturday and Sunday all grandparents, grandparents, moms and dads are now drawing pictures and sticking out of plastic and clay to sell baby pictures and counting to maintain the Kiev City Administration. Let us let our children and parents rest on Saturdays and Sundays, not pictures and pictures of Czerniewecki’s portraits. So I would ask the commission to work actively, and we would immediately consider the matter of the commission of inquiry. Dear colleagues, as we agreed on Friday, we are starting our work from the reports of the temporary commission of inquiry. Today we have a question - a report from the Provisional Investigation Commission on the investigation of violations of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Land Code of Ukraine, other laws of Ukraine by the Ternopil City Council, the failure of the courts to execute decisions on the removal, transfer, use of land, as well as on the abuse of services in the administration of property and the inaction of the prosecutor's organs on the violation of Ukrainian legislation in the activities of the City Council. The interim commission proposes to consider the following rules: to report to the head of the Interim Investigation Commission - in 10 minutes, to answer the question - in 10 minutes, for discussion, for adoption - in 5 minutes. What will be the point? Is that the order? Roger that. Dear colleagues, that's why we're starting work. For the report, I invite the head of the Temporary Investigation Commission, Ivan Vasilovich. Rules up to 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u3	Dear Mikolo Volodymyrovich, distinguished fellow MPs! First of all, I would like to thank all members of the Temporary Investigation Commission for their fruitful work. As a result. The Supreme Council of Ukraine Order No.331/6 “On the establishment of the Interim Investigations Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of violations by the Ternopil City Council of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Land Code of Ukraine, the laws of Ukraine, the failure of the courts to execute decisions on the removal, transfer, the provision of land-use services, as well as a number of service abuses in the administration of municipal property and the inaction of prosecutorial authorities in the prevention of violations of the City Council” was reviewed by the Ternopil City Council and the Public Prosecutor’s Office. In the course of the test, there have been evidences of a systematic breach of existing legislation over the last two years in the administration, transfer, transfer, transfer of land in municipal property, abuse of power, and official position by officials of the local authorities of the city of Ternopol. It has been established that many decisions taken by the City Council have been taken in violation of the current Ukrainian legislation, and some have been taken on disputed land and areas in respect of which there is a ban on court action. The results of the illegal activity of the Ternopil City Council in the individual of certain individuals are impressive in scale. In connection with illegal land ownership or the use of certain legal persons whose interests have been lobbyed by individual members of the Ternopil City Council, the Ternopil community has lost some 50 hectares of land, including the land of the natural reserve. As a result, such actions have caused considerable damage to the local budget of some 150 million dollars. The cost of the land, which is now high, was given to the builders. In addition, without the appropriate conclusions and agreement of the authorized authorities, as enshrined in article 123 of the Ukrainian Code of Land. The illegal decisions of the Ternopil City Council have led to the theft of municipal property, land, the conduct of opaque sales procedures for municipal property, which has led to the lack of funds available to the local budget in a particularly large way. On May 29, 2008, at the 17th session of the Ternopil City Council, decisions were taken on the granting of a permit to build, a project for a private enterprise, the Ternopil Construction Company, a land plot of about 0.6 hectares [0.6 ha] of land to complete the construction of a multi-floor residential building with a mansard and covered parking areas: the city of Ternopil, Berezov Street. As well as number 5 17/124 concerning the granting of a permit to a private firm, Ternopil’s Construction Company, to build a project with a land plot of 0.7 hectares for the maintenance and construction of unfinished construction under a multi-floor residential building built by built-up public catering facilities: the city of Ternopil, the street of Glaucoma,1. The decisions were taken against the requirements of Ukraine's Land Code, Ukraine's State Budget 2008 Act, Ukraine's Land Rental Act and the Ternopil City Council Decision No 5/7/3: on the granting of land for the placement of urban buildings on competitive terms, etc. The Ternopil City Council decides on disputed land and areas in which there is a ban on court action. At the 13th session of the Ternopil City Council, on 18 October 2007, decision No. 5/13/120 was taken on the approval of the location and the granting of a permit for the construction of a project for the removal of Rovex land of 8.74 hectares for the construction of a commercial and entertainment complex, public catering facilities, population services and a group of apartment buildings: the Kyivska Street, General Tarnavsky Street. The project was presented for consideration by the City Council and put to a vote at a time when the well-known administration of the City Council was proved to have approved the Ternopil Region Master Court since 23.01.2007, which was banned by the Ternopil City Council until the dispute was resolved, in fact, to take any decision on the land concerned and the approval of the Ternopil Region Economic Court of 27.08.2007, which was prohibited by the Ternopil City Council until the dispute was resolved, in principle, to make any decision on the rental and use of the land mentioned above. Despite the court’s approval of the Ternopil District Economic Court and the comments of the City Council’s Legal Department on this issue, MPs Terosevsky and Lilo deliberately violated the law, demanded immediate inclusion in the agenda of the day’s issue and the vote. The decision was taken and signed by the city head Zastavan, and the city head of the same day signed Order No. 628 on the approval of an act of choice and a survey of a land area of 8.74 hectares on the street of Kiev, General Tarnavsky in Ternopol. In addition, it should be noted that draft decision No. 5/16156 of 18 September 2008 on the approval of the project by the Land Administration concerning the removal of Rowex land from the area of 8.74 hectares under the construction of a commercial entertainment complex with public food and services facilities and a group of multi-housing residential buildings at Ternopil, Kyivska Street – General Tarnavsky, issued by the deputy of Tarasevski City Council, which has a direct bearing on this society as it is the property of the Tarasevski family. The findings of the State expert on land-use documentation, the Land Administration on the removal of Rooks land for the construction of a commercial entertainment complex from the public food establishment, dated 18 March 2008. This conclusion contains significant observations and proposals on land-based documentation, as well as recommendations on the Ternopolis land line, to monitor the implementation of the findings of State expertise. However, the initiative of individuals to consider the City Council session raises questions and decisions on the approval of the project by the WCO “Rowex” system without addressing the shortcomings of land-based documentation. This also indicates that an incomplete package of documents has been submitted to the Board on the above - mentioned issue. Responsible city council officials, including in the city’s head, could not give a clear answer to a question as to whether it was possible to agree on all the land documents on the street of Kyivska, General Tarnavsky’s street in Ternopol on the day of the city council’s session. Moreover, the Ternopil City Council, once again, on the initiative of individual officials, decides to give legal persons access to land from the land of the natural-law foundation. Yes, by decision of the 13th session of the Ternopil City Council of the fifth vocation, No. 5/13/114 of 18 October 2007, changes were made to the decision of the City Council of 31 August 2007, No. 5/12/82 concerning the granting of a permit for the establishment of an Inex project for a land plot of 0.87 hectares on the street of Čumytka, 2 for the construction and operation of catering complexes and public food and household services. As established by the Public Prosecutor's Office of the City of Ternopol with the participation of specialists in the State-Ecological Inspection in the Ternopil area, the land area of 0.87 hectares on the street of Čumatka is within the area of the “Zagrebella” Regional Landscape Park, which, by a decision of 18 sessions of the Ternopil Regional Council of National Deputies, 21 calls since 14 March 1994 of 630 hectares declared by reserved local objects. There is a place for the Ternopil City Council to use individual commercial structures and land to build housing and trade facilities, enabling such commercial structures to gain significant profits. Since the rent is less than the sale price, the land is leased by commercial entities rather than purchased. After a lease is made, a commercial structure builds housing in a short period of time, sells it at market prices that are now quite high and earns considerable profits. After that, a residential building is passed on to utilities of the city’s council or to a building’s cooperative management. And the commercial structure that has been building and selling housing has ceased to be a part of the future regarding the maintenance and maintenance of a new building. The illegal corrupt actions of officials of the Ternopil City Council in renting and privatizing municipal property have also been verified. According to the decision of the executive committee of the Ternopil City Council of 28.11.2007, the number 1803 in the administration of municipal property was to be transferred to the balance sheet of nonresidential buildings at the address: Ternopil, Lipov Street, 45 and 47. This decision by the Department of Municipal Property was not consistent with that of the city’s deputy head, Grinchim, of the objects to be transferred to the balance sheet. [[Because time is coming to an end.]] I want to say that the buildings on Lipova Street, 45 and 47 are not counted according to the address. I would like to point out that, in particular, the deputy director of the Local Property Administration of the Ternopil Town Council of Babrisha was hand-in-hand in August-September 2007 on the list of municipal property.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u4	Please finish. Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u5	There's a lot of listings, I'm telling you, on municipal property. But since it's time, it's time. The interim commission of inquiry recommends that the report be accepted. Report to the Interim Investigation Commission to the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine and study it for appropriate response and terminate the mandate of the Interim Investigation Commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u6	Thank you. Please ask the reporter. It's a question mark.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u7	Thank you. Jaroslav Dry Party of the Regions. Ivan Vasilovich, surely you can thank your commission for the great amount of work you have done. But I want to ask you this question, and I want all the Ukrainian national MPs to listen. For us, the political situation in the Ternopil region must be a serious lesson in solving the issues of the development of the Ukrainian state. It is a matter of establishing an elementary order in local self - government bodies. Who cares about the future of Ukrainian statehood, who seeks to strengthen the people’s trust in power, to force authority, including in places more politically accountable to the people, to raise questions and proposals for elections to the Ternopil district, city council, and the Ternopil city’s head. Please tell me that in the decisions and discussions of the commission, there was a proposal to hold city council and city council elections. Why it is no longer in the draft decree, but simply “take note”. But you also called scary things “accepting them.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u8	Thank you for asking, Mr. Jaroslav. Those violations that were really about land, property, or municipal property, were recommended by the commission for the election of both city heads and city council deputies. Since virtually a group of members of the Ternopil City Council or a group of deputies have practically settled matters of property and land in their own interests. The Commission’s findings were made, then published on the Supreme Council’s website, that is, the commission recommended one thing, and the decision virtually came out as it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u9	Jaroschuk Vladimir Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u10	Vladimir Jaroschuk, faction of the Party of the Regions. Please pass the word to Chechtovo
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u11	Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u12	Thank you very much! Dear rapporteur, please tell me, who is responsible for this: BUT or Our Ukraine? And why does the local authorities take evil from the Kiev authorities? Well, there's a lot of anger going on between the President and the Prime Minister, and they're about to tear the country apart, and I'm sorry for the expression. Why should local authorities follow a bad example from the President, from the Prime Minister, from BUTT, from Our Ukraine? Well, you're smarter than that! Smarter! You don't think the President and the Prime Minister are the smartest, do you? It's the smart people on earth who walk, yes, in the regions. Don't set an example for them, even if you don't make a fuss, yes! You'll ruin all of Western Ukraine, yes! Take the example of Donbassa: unity, monolith, people friendly, smiling, looking with optimism tomorrow! And if power hadn't interfered yet, it would have been even better, yes! Supreme, I mean, Kiev! Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u13	Thank you for asking. I want to say one thing, I mean, that Donbas, that Kiev, that Lviv, that Ternopil is practically a lot of people, MPs who are really loyal and working for the public. But there is a certain group of corrupt businesses that may be conspiring to make decisions about land and municipal property. More to the point, if the city’s head is charged with a criminal case overstepping his authority, what can then be discussed? If you take a thorough look at the Commission's analysis, practically on land issues, there are the same people on property issues, the same people, the same MPs, that's Mr. Tarasevski, Lilo, and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u14	Kenzior Jaroslav Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u15	Jaroslav Kenzior, MP “For Ukraine!” Ivan Vasilovich, indeed, the problem that has been solved and investigated by your Temporary Investigation Commission is very important. Yesterday we were trying to create such a commission in the Kyiv region, and at the same time, we know that the Land Administration is in places, in regions and in central areas, that's exactly what they say, the BUT jurisdiction. Prime Minister, you know very well as a Levian, have delegated a land commissioner from Kiev, such as Mr. Zawtur Dmitry, who graduated from the FSB High School in Moscow before coming here. So say, please, maybe start with the central land administration, change the committee's management and order across Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u16	Mr. Jaroslav, thank you so much for asking. Let's start with the fact that leadership has already changed land resources and is now in charge of a completely different political power, but we've been doing a check in 2006, 2007 when BUT wasn't yet in power. So you can deny it, Mr. Jaroslav. I can say more, in the Lviv region led the Land Administration and is now headed by Psevlotsky, this is the representative of “Our Ukraine”. And if you compare Psevlotsky and Oliynik, there's much to talk about.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u17	Hare Ivan Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u18	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. Mr. Reporter, yesterday in the agenda of the plenary, the question was to cancel the elections to the Ternopil district council, and the elections were scheduled for March 15th, and it was clear from what motives, because for at least a year, the district council was ineffective, because selectively your political power was applying the position on the imperative mandate for you, and for others it was not working. And now you're, you're speaking in contrast to the election, although the process is going on, the costs are being used, the campaign is going on, and now you're proposing to announce the election for the city council. Tell me, please, when the moment comes, that we will again receive from you a draft decree on the distinction between the election and the city council. So I want to know what it's all about, whether it's a double standard policy, or it's some confusion, that's why we're doing it when we're not doing it in the same direction, when we're not doing it. As a representative of BUTT, I would like to.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u19	Thank you for asking, Mr. Ivan. I mean, the report was ready six months ago. But under different circumstances, I report in six months. And if the session room makes a decision, i.e. the report approves and the election decision is made, then I think there will be an election, if there is no decision, there will be no decision. But one thing I say is that the initiator of the elections on the district council was not BUT, but it was Governor Chizmar and Our Ukraine. Let's move on. Regarding the commission's report. The report was approved unanimously and by a party, representatives and the Party of the Regions, and Communists, and BUIT.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u20	Jódzik Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u21	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People’s Party. Dear Mr. John, do you not think that at the time of the formation of this commission of inquiry, the foundations of objectivity were laid in the future of its work? And if we read your report, each tape of this document confirms the objectivity and involvement of this commission. Yes, the main charge is based on the release of 8 hectares of Rovex, but at the same time there is no word for the owner of this firm to come under the flags of your political power in the report, there is no word that the faction of your political power in full support of this decision in the first reading. There is no word that this company has paid nearly 20 million dollars to the owners of the tax parcels in this area. Do you not think that the work of your commission confirms and contains signs?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u22	Well, Mr. Jaroslav, thank you for asking. Well, first thing I wanted to pay attention to. It is very sad and very sad that “Our Ukraine” did not delegate its representatives to the commission. This is a one-time thing. Let's move on. There's an answer from Internal Affairs, where there's a violation. Let's move on. There's an answer from the Construction Authority, when a builder company, so it's a self-containment of the land. So in ten cases, the same builder company doesn't apply, so either an application for land allocation or something like that. I'll say one thing: the commission was working in two directions. So the representatives of the BUT and the Communists were working separately and the representatives of the Party of the Regions were working separately. And, in fact, at the end of the joint session, we came to, in fact, a common thought. What is, indeed, a great many violations of current legislation in the field of land use and land allocation and decommissioning and privatization of municipal property. Because what can be said about municipal property when authorities or, let's put it this way, the Communion Administration demanded people.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u23	Complete the answer, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u24	A recalculation of funds for charity funds, where there is a city head’s wife, for the conduct of one or more shares. After that, property was privatized. And those who were close to the city’s head did not do so, and those who were far away were allowed to privatize property. What are we talking about?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u25	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u26	Yuri Karmazin The Party of Fatherland Defenders of Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense. Dear Ivan Vasilovich, I want to thank you for your thorough work, which is one of the few reports that we see made, at least at some level, not made out of political conviction. But the question I have is, in fact, that these investigative commissions will be all the time if the prosecutor’s authorities fail to perform their functions, the courts will be approved. And I see you're proposing to consider the release of Prosecutor Ternopol, his deputy, and obviously the prosecutor of the Ternopil district. I don't know what the D.A.'s doing. Please explain this question and tell us whether you invited the Attorney General or the Attorney General today or when we will hear the answers to what measures have been taken. Because they don't have jobs for them. There's a state structure, and we don't have to answer. This morning at 7 a.m., I answered the way in the skull.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u27	Mr. Yuri, thank you for asking. In general, when it was published on the site of the Supreme Council, just a report from the Temporary Investigation Commission, the prosecutor of the city of Ternopol has already been released, transferred to the Hmelnitsk district, he became the deputy prosecutor of the district of Hmelnitsk. Vasilyshin is also reduced, and action is already being taken. Thus, this indicates that the commission’s report means something. These were true facts. I wanted the public prosecutor’s response to be all the time and always the right thing to do. But when the prosecutor reports, there's a prosecutor's protest, and the session rejects him, and everything stops -- it's a formal act. Yes, corruption? Corruption around. And there's one thing, as if there was a new prosecutor in the Ternopil area who, after our report, had just begun to perform his duties.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u28	Thank you, Ivan Vasilovich, please sit down. Let's sign up for a discussion. Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u29	Dear colleagues who know me will believe that the problems of the Ternopil region are not strangers to me. And what you, Ivan Aleksandrovitch, have asked is whether there are any political motives here, of course we should be talking in this case, not about political motives, but about what we see. Remember, Ternopilska is an agro-industrial pearl of the Soviet Union known for its high yields of sugar beet, corn. The thermal field is known for its cotton and thermal combination, “Watro”, “Oron”, “Saturn”, and for its military and industrial complex. What do we see today? The sharp deterioration of the economy and the deterioration of people's lives is the situation in Ukraine. But respectable colleagues, such nibbles among political elites as in Ternopils, are nowhere to be found. What is the reason? And there's one more thing I want to say. I remember in 2005 Roman Immortal expressed his immortal ideas that a number of areas should be disbanded. I think it's from the President's Secretariat that it's going to happen, it's going to change the Constitution, and Ruslan said it right. There was no such area as Ternopolishte, Galicina and Delilah, Bukovina, Transnistria, and Volin. How can you do that? What exactly happened, colleagues? Elections are coming, some political power has won the elections. Here in the session hall, either this power, or the coalition, forms the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, right? What happens in places? Some political power prevails. Instead of transferring all responsibility, the population, the territorial community of the region, or the city, sees another outbreak of rodents. Why? Because one political power has triumphed, the executive power is realized by another. But not only is it different, but it is also very often hostile. In Zaporozhye, the Party of Regions won, and the Reform and Order sent the head of the government. And before that, they were from our Ukraine. Why? Well, if you're smart and you find a common point of view. What's going on in Ternopolska right now is that we need to complete administrative and territorial reform. And respectable colleagues, like or disliked by someone, but it's the reelection of the district council, the city and the city heads that will make it possible to remember party and political elites to understand what's going on and to make it possible for people to understand. My countrymen are waving their heads at me, and I want to remind you, my colleague, Wooden Vasil Timothyovich, was trying to reconcile district council and the district government, unite business, businessmen, and peoples. And Zaporozhye's deputies, the Donetsk regions of his initiative, were there. We wanted to load them with something -- it's impossible, because the district council is doing its job, and these are kind of bad. Right. The circus is clear! Just like we have the Cabinet of Ministers and the Secretary of the President.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u30	Stojko Ivan Mihajlovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u31	Dear Lord Chairman! Dear colleagues! Indeed, when you listen to the speech of the chairman of the commission, you conclude that one political force may be taking the lead in the area and especially in the city of Ternopil. But I don't think we're going to be able to capture it because people are smart, people have made their choice in 2006. What are we talking about? This is really about the city that lives and works. There are schools, there are gardens, there are vases, but there are shortcomings all over the country, because today we are in a financial and economic crisis, and of course we can talk about both the area and the city of Ternopil a lot of unpleasant things, but what was here is literally slandering those MPs who are representatives of the city. It's the desire to publish things that are real. And that's why I want to say that it's in the area of today's governance and land resources, ecology, and other governments that have captured exactly one political power -- that's why Block Timoshenko -- that's why they're probably trying, as it were, to move forward on the front and on the city, but today I would say that what's said to the commission's head is not true, because the land, particularly the one called "8 hectares," is really committed to those people who had the respective areas on the ground. And so, as far as I'm concerned, the conclusion is completely unfounded. The D.A.'s office is working, it's really not what came after you worked on the commission, it's where the rotation took place, and the prosecutor of the pre-honor worked very well because I was able to work with him. And that's why today I don't want Ternoplethic, donate, lower your plentuse. Temperature is the land, as my colleague Mr. Jaroslav, the laborers, the land where people really work, but not always work, because the economy is built in such a way that there are, in fact, large businesses that would work. And actually, people are now doing small, medium-sized businesses, making a large share of the budget. And that's why what's going on with the election to the district council is again because the Block of Timoshenko has usurped power and has failed to execute the decisions of the courts and hinders the work of the territorial election commission. I hope that it is sufficient for us not to make the elections in the city of Ternopolis. Because the area and the city of this city, forgive, will not endure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u32	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u33	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that the over-politicization that has now been in the speeches on this issue is totally inappropriate. There are specific cases of violations of legislation, all in all. Is it possible to distribute land that applies to the reserve? The law states that you can't. They're handing out. How can this be politicized? What political power does not matter to me, absolutely. I don't care how and who discovered the first violations, when one day, think about it, there's a city council session, and one day, they're all agreed on the land -- and it's not called corruption. I don't care if we didn't consider the decision yesterday to appoint the head of the Ukrainian Security Service. Because of its one - month tenure, it takes almost two and a half years to usurp and use law enforcement agencies for political purposes. What about the report of the investigating committee? I didn't hear, and what did the anti-corruption unit, which is headed by the great Durdinian, who is illegally established by the court, do? Nothing, there's no such unit, because whatever it is, things like this would be stopped. I am concerned and in pain that nine criminal cases have only been committed in the past year and one has been brought to trial. What is the effectiveness of such delinquency? And I have a question to the Attorney General of Ukraine, obviously that, as it once was, there was an urgent need to hold meetings of the General Prosecutor's Office's College on the issue of the Ternopil region. By the state of law enforcement. I am now addressing Alexander Ivanovich Medvedzka, urgently call a colleague and give an assessment of the facts that have to be set up by the MPs today. This is a crisis of irresponsibility, not an economic crisis in Ternopolis. I'm also at the level of the area saying this, and at the level of the city it happens when there are protocols on corruption and everything that is unsettled and unsettled. Estimates, I think they're proposing to give the right national MPs. But you and I have to evaluate and see that the public authorities system and the Security Service and the tax administration, and the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Ministry, have not worked in this area at all. That is, they failed to fulfill their functions. So it's obviously this.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u34	Finish up Yuri Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u35	I'm done. Obviously we should put it on the IMF line, and what did they do as they prevented? And it's about preventing future creation so that we don't create the next commissions. I think we should take the project as a basis, that is, as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u36	Kirilenko Viacheslav Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u37	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “For Ukraine” MP. Dear colleagues, of course we can politicize any matter of social or social life and look at it in the plenary hall. The situation in the country, in the center and in places is that any city head, any local council, any local leader can be charged with political struggle or competition by the clans, or any other such cause. So I'm not surprised if we're going to be discussing a question every week against some other city council or city council. But I want to say the word right now to protect the city's heads, because the city's heads, I think, are now the most legitimate officials who are fighting against political storms for the interests of the community, and at any rate trying to make ends meet in the middle of what's going on in spite of the winds that are destroying much of what's going on. So I want to say that instead of torturing these mayors, regardless of their party ticket, whether they're in one party, or in another, or more non-party, they need to be supported. They may not need political support, but the legislation is clearly needed. Because every year we don't know what numbers we're going to leave them, which are going to be taken into the central budget. We don't know what taxes they're going to collect, we know instead that those local congregations that are very, very small and they don't fill local budgets. At the same time, we always know that the government is at a critical point where it's going to start looking for more than all taxes to the central budget and then redistribute. By the way, through the area, through the area, and into the city, the villages, the villages, if anything happens, it's very late and very small. So I'd like to talk about these topics and eventually make the local communities agreeable, and go back to the question of the electoral system. Because this policy, which has already been transferred to the local councils, is going to finish any city. Because there is a political war, not a struggle for the interests of the community. So this proportional system in place has discredited itself. And we need to get the local MPs back, like the central ones, by the way, the electorate, so they don't have to do high-level politics from the central leaders, but they do roads, houses, heat, sanitation, social payouts, human needs. As long as this proportional system is in every council, there will be destruction in both the East and the West. And that's what we have to deal with. And by the way, I'd like to say that the young town head is doing almost everything right, so he's smothered there because he doesn't like to have an independent position. And we'll support him.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u38	Dear colleagues! The time for discussion is over. The name of the People’s Deputy Deputy was mentioned, please, Vasil Timofiovich Derevljany, a replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u39	Dear National Deputies! From this rostrum were two national deputies representing Ternopilska, some biased attitude of the commission. I want to say that there is absolutely no politicization in the report. Our political power to the rubble of land in the city of Ternopolis has no bearing either, but these two representatives, representing these political powers, their deputies are constantly voting in favour of these land areas. I would also like to state that after the appointment of the head of the Regional Land Administration of our district council member after that, this dessert in the city of Ternopolis has ended. As a result, today let those national MPs from UNODC and the Movement watch their deputies in the city of Ternopol vote as they defend the interests of the community of the city of Ternopol.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u40	Dear colleagues! The discussion is over. I'm voting for acceptance as a basis. I am voting on the basis of the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the report of the interim commission of inquiry, Registration No. 3236. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:05:29]] For 351 Decision taken. Please see if the National Deputies have any additions to.? Yes. Please sign in. Jaroschuk Vladimir Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u41	Please pass the word to Jaroslav Sukh.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u42	Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u43	Dear colleagues! I think and I would like to hope that this conversation, even in the session room, will be a serious and threatening warning to the party-political elite of Ternopolis, they will make some lessons out of it and stop biting each other, stop courting, TVK on TVK, minority on most, and thus give people the opportunity to believe in power, to restore people's trust in power, to bring people to power. Because what's going on there right now is a mere discreditation of local authority. I don't have a draft regulation, I didn't know that there was no point in the draft re-election. So, of course, unfortunately, I think it would be appropriate in the city of Ternopol to hold city and city council elections. But it will be in the future if there are no lessons to be learned by the City Council of Ternopolska. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u44	Arzhevtin Stanislav Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u45	Give Knyazevich a word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u46	Dear Chief, distinguished MPs! I'm just, frankly, I don't fully understand what we just took as a basis? If we based the report itself, if we based the draft decision, where is this draft decision? There is no Decision Project. So what's this about? The point is that in the report itself, at the end of the report, the commission of inquiry offered a series of recommendations. The point is that the first item is the possibility of an out-of-turn election. Next item is the release of the city's attorney. The question of the next election is not the question of the commission of inquiry. We've had discussions about this. It's a matter of a professional committee, and it's a matter of a court decision. In view of these circumstances and considering that the city’s prosecutor mentioned in the report is no longer in office, there are certain conclusions about him, there is no point in actually voting on these points. So the only possible solution now is for the report to, you know, somehow not to be completely unsuccessive here, to be sent to the profile committee to be known.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u47	Dear National Deputy Knazević, distinguished colleagues, I would like to be more attentive to the issues of the day’s order. The draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the report of the Interim Investigation Commission of three paragraphs has now been voted on as the basis. Point one, report to the commission. Paragraph two, to submit this report to the Attorney General's Office in accordance with the Supreme Council Rules and paragraph three, to terminate the work of the Interim Investigation Commission. All of it. Please read the projects before taking the word. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u48	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies, the Decision Project was given to us on September 29, 2008, No. 3236. I would also like to add to the second paragraph, which reads: “to report to the Interim Commission to the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine”, and to write “and to the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Security of Ukraine”. Also introduce a new paragraph to write: “listen to the reports of the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs and the Head of the Board on the state of compliance with legislation and the results of the fight against offences in the Ternopil area, according to the report of the parliamentary commission of inquiry.” That would be in line with the constitutional rule on parliamentary control and the fact that it's ineffective on paper and that it's real. And then, apparently, all the wrongs that are happening there have stopped because only in anticipation have they stopped.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u49	Landik Vladimir Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u50	Thank you. I rarely do, but once again I agree with the leader of "For Ukraine" Kirilenko, when he says that a major election system for local councils is necessary. This has been shown by our party system that any mayor will work for himself and any party, the faction will work for its own interests by covering the party and by covering the leader's family. And maybe it would be appropriate, I understand that there is a Constitution, citizens' rights, but there might be something we can do to make special elections for Ternopol so that no former MP could participate in this assembly, and that would be much less in other cities and for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u51	Klukkowski Yuri Bogdanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u52	Thank you. Yuri Klukkowski, “Our Ukraine”. To be honest, I was very interested in the report about when the decision we made today was registered. Please tell me, what was the commission doing the last six months after it was able to register? And it seems to me that such cases just don't have to be allowed to look at the consequences of work that ended six months ago and that we're going to report something today and we have no idea, at least, the room has no idea what that has to do with today's reality. And now we're making a decision. So it seems to me that we need to control these issues more closely and put them in order of the day, and if a half a year ago a registered decision cannot be considered today and cannot be taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u53	Thank you, Yuri Bogdanovich. I can remind you that the question has been put in the agenda several times, and here the vote in the session hall has been removed from consideration for reasons that can only explain to the deputies. Honorary colleagues, Ukrainian national deputies, namely, Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, the national deputy of Ukraine, made two proposals. Offer one. To supplement paragraph 2 of the decree by submitting a report to the interim commission of inquiry to the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Ukrainian Security Service. I'm putting this motion to a vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:12:49]] For 321 Decision taken. And the second sentence of the National Deputy Carmazin was to add one more point to hearing the information of the Attorney General and the Director of the Security Service of Ukraine and the Ministry of Internal Affairs regarding the work of these authorities in responding to the offences mentioned in the report of the interim commission of inquiry. I'm willing to vote in favour of this. of the proposal made by the People's Deputy Karmazin. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:13:40]] For 337 Decision taken. I'm betting on the whole draft regulation 3236, taking into account the proposals just supported by the session hall. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:14:05]] For 352 Decision taken. Tomenko Mikola Volodymyrovich, from the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u54	Dear colleagues, Mr. Alexander Volodymyrovich, I was approached by representatives of the humanitarian committees with a bill to be considered. We're not so often on the Supreme Council looking at humanitarian bills, so there's a request that we work more actively on a reduced procedure. Today, there are no principled financial and economics, and humanitarian laws must be considered by all. Therefore, please put to the vote a reduced procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u55	I am voting on the proposal by Mikola Volodymyrovich Tomenka that the bills that have been tabled today should be considered in summary procedure. Please vote. [[11:15:05]] For 325 Decision taken. It is being announced for the consideration of amendments to the Law on Museums and Museums, registration number 3020. Reportedly, Deputy Minister of Culture and Tourism Bench Olga Grigorovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u56	Good afternoon, Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, your consideration is proposed by the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Museums and Museums. The bill has been drafted by the Ministry of Culture and Tourism of Ukraine to introduce effective mechanisms for the implementation of State policy in the area of museum affairs. Its acceptance will ensure that social relations are regulated in the museum field and, as a result, improve them. The achievement of the objective will be ensured by: identifying and consolidating at the legislative level of museum terminology; improving the order of accounting and storage of the museum fund of Ukraine; all museum objects and objects of museum importance, regardless of the form of ownership and subordination, must be calculated; clear definitions of the concept and delimitation of the state and non-state parts of the museum fund of Ukraine and ways of controlling the central authority of the executive authority over their preservation; identification of the responsibility and preservation of the museum fund of Ukraine; identification of the order of transfer and use of museum objects. The adoption of the draft law will allow increased control over the preservation of funds, avoid arbitrary interpretations of important concepts in the museum. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to keep this bill on the first reading and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u57	Thank you, Olga Gregory, sit down, please. A report from the Committee by Vladimir Alexanderovich Yavorowski
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u58	Dear colleagues, honourable voters, this bill is purely technological. I'd even call it that, and the amendments that are being made are time amendments, because the Museums and Museums Act was adopted in the early 1990s, adopted by a young parliament, a young state. Over the past 19 years, new technologies have been introduced into the life and functioning of the library, digital media, and so forth. Because, in fact, there's these adjustments over here in time, I've already said that, and I'm stressing it again. The bill was introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers, and the Ministry of Culture is the author. There are a few little remarks that have been made by our expert, scientific and scientific management. For example, there is the issue: Ukraine’s Museum Foundation is divided into both state and nonstate. Unstated ones include, for example, religious denominations there and so forth. The question is, Can they be transferred to an operating facility? But I think between the first and the second readings there's a very normal glare to then see, walk through this bill and accept it. Please vote. No politics, no underwater currents in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u59	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Let's sign up for a discussion. Karpuk Vladimir Georgievich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u60	Vladimir Karpuk, group “For Ukraine!” Indeed, Ukraine has a wide network of developed museums, but we are still far from European level, where virtually every town has several interesting museums. And this law is practically not that technological, there are, in fact, quite a lot of strong positions, and I would focus on how to think about conservation, on protecting these museums. We know how many of the museum funds have been stolen recently from great historical values, archival documents, paintings, and so on. So it's one of the most important questions and the preservation of exactly what's in our museums. Also. Article 26 does not regulate the authority of the central authority, but, at the same time, we must do everything we can to ensure that local self-government agencies, executive authorities, contribute to the development of museums in places, because we now know that virtually every scientific museum or museum located in areas, in small cities in a very difficult position and so on. And in times of crisis, it's hard to finance and low wages for these people. There are unique museums in Ukraine, such as the Volin Icon Museum. And I would say that this museum really needs to be assigned national status because there are unique icons and one of the oldest icons, the icon of the Holy Mother of God. But all of these changes can be considered by a reduced procedure. I'm making a proposal to vote so that we can look at them as a reduced procedure and vote in favour of this law in general next week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u61	Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u62	Thank you. Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, Party of Regions I emphasize Zaporozhye, because such a problem as preserving our national historical acquisition, which is now in Zaporozhye County, is extremely acute. And the fact that this bill is a little late is certainly true, but I want to remind you that this bill was introduced, and such ideas were introduced earlier, not just in 2009, but in 2005, 2007. Because we are seeing with you, from time to time, the media are constantly passing on to us the “Stolen Museum!” – we stole what was like a church community, but it referred to reserves, non-state reserve of the museum fund. So I certainly want to support my colleague Karpuk. Regardless of what our Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority is doing with some kind of warning about a comprehensible device, I want to pay your attention, but the warning -- is there going to be an effective state control? And that's why this bill is dedicated to establishing effective state control, control of society. Because Ukraine today is an extremely flattering piece for adventurers of all kinds. See what happens at the customs office from time to time? From here they try to export what is the acquisition of the Republic and what is the acquisition of our Ukraine.” Clearly, then, this bill can be adopted as a basis. Yes, he needs work. I want to support my colleague Karpuk. Of course, we can make a decision to have a short-term committee discuss these proposals, make them. And thus, the introduction of state control in the museum will be put at the proper level of government. Please support me as a base. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u63	Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u64	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. I certainly agree with the concern expressed by my predecessors in the discussion, but if you'll excuse me, I'm on the subject of the bill, because we're looking at a specific bill. We cannot agree that he is said to be purely technical or technological. It's not like that. He is trying to regulate relations in the museum field, and it is obvious that the authors and entities of the legislative initiative were tasked by this regulation to improve and improve the museum realm itself. And in this context, in agreement with Mr. Yavorowski's head of the committee of profile, with what can be done on the basis of this bill, I would like to point out two points that will have to be taken into account, including, perhaps, the working group, where the representatives of the department of profile will go. In particular, the bill defines the mandate of the central executive body in the museum field. At the same time, we know very well that there is a direct attitude towards a number of museums in areas where local authorities and local governments have local authorities. This is not mentioned in the bill, and so it is likely that the regulation of not only the powers and functions of central authorities but also of those who care in places, local governments and local authorities will have to be provided for in the second reading work. And one more moment, it's technical on the one hand, and the other it's not. Why? Because it is predicted that the state should control, exercise State control over the state of non-State part of the funds. What does that mean? This means the ownership of individual citizens, and it is the property of religious communities. I would like to ask myself whether the state can exercise real state control over those museum exhibits that are in place.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u65	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u66	Which are in private property, which is in the house, in the galleries, and so on. So it seems to me that this moment needs to be really adjusted, on the basis that we can take, in principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u67	Bondarenko Volodymir Dmitrovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u68	Vladimir Bondarenko, Timoshenko Yuli Block. When I wrote down the statement, I pressed the counter button, not saying that I was against this law, meaning that it would have to be seriously refined in the future. What's the point? Today, there's a really large branched system of museums in Ukraine, but what they have, the originals, the distant copies, is a big question today. So in my view, a certification system should be created in Ukraine, or at least expert conclusions, independent experts on the exhibits that are in place. First of all, these icons, some of which have long been exported to a neighbouring state, and far - off copies hang in temples and not only in temples but also in individual businessmen. This is also true of objects of antiquity that are now being produced actively. I know, for example, in Poltavska, two centers where beautiful Cossack patterns are made, which even an expert in such a middle-hand cannot distinguish from old or flat knives and much more. So the point is that there must be a calculation of real museum values in the state, and it must be built. This cadastre of real values must be the national significance of objects that are important to the State, such as scythian monuments and so forth, and much more. There's the area and there's the local meaning. And in order for this cadastra to be all-encompassing, you don't have to regret the money, because every day we lose these objects and abroad, and they're often destroyed by the fact that museums don't have normal shelters, normal warehouses, reserves and so on. So such a single state inventory of museum values, systems of independent expertise to confirm the identity and authenticity of exhibits, is needed today. In general, there are a lot of interesting measures here, but in my opinion, it would be worth working on the Ministry of Culture in this direction, not just this bill, but the changes to it in order for us to eventually get what we need in the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u69	Tomenko Mikola Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, I wanted to point out that the idea is right for the Ministry of Culture. But whoever was interested in the bill obviously needs to advise our ministers to work more actively, because even a comparative table couldn't form how we need it. Whoever's interested couldn't find out what's proposed here for the vote, that's the first thesis. The second thesis, evidently if the Ministry had not made more systematic changes, would obviously have to hold a serious meeting of experts in this area and consider what the national deputies said, part of the national register. On the contrary, what the ministry proposed was minimizing the de facto rebuttal in article 9 of the State Register. I believe that this is the key to solving the question of what the state register should be, whether it should be parallel and paper, and the computer version of registering cultural monuments. Because you know how this is done, there is an vulnerable man in the museum, a yellow paper disappears in the museum, a white paper appears and is no longer a monument to the 17th century, but a monument to the 20th century. So one piece of paper is being exchanged and this monument is already being sold, so we need to find a mechanism where we would clearly see that the system of preservation of cultural values is clearly warned. And of course. You have to think about the responsibility of preparing for second reading, because unfortunately there are a lot of museum workers, and there are a lot of government officials of different times who abuse and use all these moments when museum workers get little, prone to abuse. I know even one political power where there was a serious discussion in the middle about museum thefts, which is a serious question. So I'd like us not just to adopt it in the first reading, but to have Vladimir Alexanderovich gather a serious meeting with himself on the committee, and for the second reading, this was, really, a real bill, I would say, to protect our museums and museum values. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u71	According to article 31, paragraph 5, of the vote, the faction did not take part in the discussion. Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u72	Thank you. Martinyuk. The Communist faction. Dear colleagues! I fully support the statements made by those of you who spoke, on the one hand, noting the importance of the law, but stressing that we should not be so simplistic as to be served here. If any of you have looked closely at the addition and amendment of the law, I must say again, to my conviction, it has not improved, but it has made the existing law worse. I call you only Article 9 “State Registration of Museums”. And it says here what it takes for this state registration, how it's being done, where you can complain about what's coming after it. They only left: “The state registration of the museum of all forms of property is carried out in accordance with the law.” What law? How and how? And there's too much of that abrasion. So really, the second reading needs to be carefully looked at and taken into account all of these proposals that are in the scientific expertise's comments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u73	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich, the discussion is over. I am voting on the adoption of the draft Act amending the Law on Museums and Museums. Registration number 3020. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:31:52]] For 379 Decision taken. A draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Libraries and Library is being announced for consideration. Registration number 3077. Reported: Deputy Minister of Culture and Tourism Bench Olga Grigorovna
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u74	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! Dear National Deputies! Your consideration is proposed by the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Libraries and Library. This bill has been drafted by the Ministry of Culture and Tourism of Ukraine to bring legislation in the field of the library into line with the current needs of society, to reconcile it with the civil and economic legislation of today, to the possibility of expanding the information function of libraries. The essence of the Law. The draft Law provides for the expansion and improvement of a comprehensible apparatus, since a number of regulations already contain terminology that is not in force. A more thorough definition of the functions of the National Library of Ukraine is given, and it is also suggested that documents belonging to the cultural heritage of Ukraine be preserved. The formation of library funds has been substantially changed and specified, allowing them to be stored and meaningfully filled, including information on modern media. In order to ensure that the libraries perform their basic functions, the bill prohibits any activity that contradicts its function or may adversely affect the state of the library. The New World Translation Vocational education in the library field, which will enable high-quality library services, international cooperation in library matters, to focus on integrating Ukraine's library and information into the world's information space. This is particularly important in the information environment of society. I ask you, honourable Members, to support me in my first reading and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u75	Thank you, Olga Gregory. A report from the Committee by Vladimir Aleksandrovitch Yavorowski
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u76	Dear colleagues! I would like to say immediately that this bill is little different from that for which so many national deputies and committee have voted. Although we understand very well, by the way, this bill too, I want to take this function and I'll say it better. That it's also an attempt to make some kind of technological adjustments. And the deputy minister, Mrs. Bench, who was just here, obviously had to talk about it, too, because we asked the committee this question. Obviously, everything you said about museums and libraries should be made more radically. Because we're proposing these technological changes, they're very important, they're necessary, but in these changes, let's say people's deputies are already coming to me and they're talking about what's fallen out there, let's say the agrarian library and there's no way they're doing scientific work. We will bring this to the second reading, but of course, the situation in which Ukrainian libraries are now present is indeed terrible. We recently held a committee meeting at the library of the historical book. It's a unique thing, the Ossunick Gospel, and here the committee members are nodding their heads, and there they were, you know, where the walls are absolutely flourishing. Take either the President or the Minister of Culture or anyone and just show them. People are good, look at the conditions in which all of this is kept. It's not stored, it's going to fail. Because we're proposing this addition to the law, the updating of it is purely technological, I say again, to vote for it. To our second reading, the committee will make some radical adjustments on what. In addition, you and I today think that we are voting on your request, and the committee has prepared a draft decree to ban evictions from libraries. Today it might be all, you know, two or three months they haven't paid in Kiev and tomorrow Chernewicki can throw this library away with books, with everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u77	Finish up, Vladimir Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u78	Because I'm asking you to support this bill again, I say, and today we're going to be looking at this decision at the end of the day to ban libraries and not just libraries, to ban cultures from evicting today during crises.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u79	Let's sign up for a discussion. Stone Valery Grigorovitch, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u80	Kamchatny, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko”, Kharkiv region. In fact, there is a saying, beauty will save the world. This refers to culture, to its layers, to its various layers, including the issue of library and library affairs. The previous vote of the draft Law on Museums and Museums showed that we can unite in the hall despite our different political views in what is central to us is spiritual values, which is what is the acquisition of our Ukraine, our culture. So I'm asking you to support all the parts of the hall, all the factions of this bill, because this is really necessary, a very timely initiative and a timely bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u81	Ribuk Sergey Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u82	Thank you. Ribuk, faction of the Party of the Regions, Zitomirščina. Dear colleagues, I emphasize, no politics. It is a good thing that Parliament is considering such a bill today. But it's very bad that, not just by a simplified procedure, but by a simplified approach, whoever takes this bill into their hands and reads it carefully, he's basically, not being an expert, an expert will see that in this, he doesn't even have an understandable category machine in his hands, the same terms are treated differently in chapters and in articles of several of the same project. Moreover, the bill does not correspond to the action plan of the Okinawa Charter of the Global Information Society, and even the terms do not match this Charter. The second and the scariest. The bill prevents librarians from doing science, which is a nonsensus in general. Because the general historical context of the library case is that it is a re-establishment, I repeat, of social justice restored. And historical truth will not be restored by politicians, but by scientists, in the field of the library, first and foremost, of the library and of the unbiased, experienced, young professionals. And right now, Ukraine already has candidates for science, and the postgraduates who do the library work there and do the science. And the third. This law, as the deputy minister said, is. the subjective desire of the Ministry of Culture, not that 70,000 library workers were not involved in the matter. Let's go to work, I've got materials, I've got a desire for library staff, let's look at it calmly, and we won't think that as a library, we have to push it and then we'll work on it. When later? When it's important now. Thank you very much for your attention. Hold on, don't support him, more loyally.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u83	Thank you, Sergey Mikolayovich. Hare Ivan Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u84	John the Rabbit of the Ukrainian People’s Party. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the amendments that the Ministry is proposing to us today are only the culmination of the iceberg, the problems that have taken over the library system today, and especially at the level of legislation. So what I want to do is not just talk to you, but I want to talk to the librarians, so that they get to know these amendments over the Internet, and they finally give us, the MPs, the proposals that we can put together in a legislative way to really fix the situation. What do I mean? We're going to the information age. We need electronic catalogues. How can we strengthen this work? We also have to be able to reflect in this legislation. The second is the inventory of the funds. We are well aware that these recent times have seen so many so - called public libraries. They're just writing down old foundations, where they're given away by no one knows anything, and it's losing a lot of information here. So these processes need to be very clearly controlled, and this information needs to be stored. I think we need to focus on the social sphere. Because the crisis will first occur on library staff. We're about to start yelling about the local self-government that we don't have the money. Let's shorten the librarians, let's move them, move them to each other's bets, or one fourth of the bet, and it's gone, and again what we've been able to do in recent years will be destroyed. So I think in this direction, we need to make changes to protect these people's rights to work, to protect their rights to pay. And there's a problem with the formation of library funds. I personally do not know how much legislation is being observed. But as I was told, copies do not always do the same. So let's go to this problem very well and make real changes to change.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u85	Zibenko Petr Stepanović
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u86	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Respectful colleagues certainly need to improve the law. But, dear colleagues, we don't know about the environment that exists today in the field of culture, we don't know that, unfortunately, today the vast majority of libraries don't receive the necessary funds to buy an extra copy of the book in order to buy periodical editions? Are you and I not aware that the wages of most people working in this area are pitiful? We need to think about this in parallel with the improvement of the law with these framework changes, and this is very important. But, dear colleagues, I would like to raise another problem today. Here today, the draft law was represented by Mrs. Bench, the Honourable Deputy Minister of Culture. But you know, I'd like to talk to my colleagues about one very unpleasant thing that concerns me. I have the impression that some may not be at peace with the Herotre case. Because it was Mrs. Bench who signed it that they went to the library for instructions on the removal of literature. Some people are not at peace with those fires that were burning in the areas known to everyone in the 1930s. Dearly beloved, this is part of our story. It can be treated differently, but it should be borne in mind that this is a joint acquisition of the people of Ukraine. And similar things are unacceptable in our society. Although I would like to point out that the Communist faction will certainly vote in favour of this draft change.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u87	For reasons of vote, the "Block of Lithuania" faction, Oleg Alexanderovich Zarubinsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u88	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. The honourable colleagues, frankly, did not intend to speak out of motive, but saw that the discussion around this bill was going, let's say, not to the library plane or to the legal plane, but to something political. Clearly, this bill has faults, especially the right thing to say about a comprehensible device. Now, the science-expert department right now says that bibliography is kind of a strange thing, for example, to express the term as infrastructure at a time when, hopefully, we have people who wrote themselves with their heads and hands of the dissertation and know what bibliography is. And I think it needs to be fixed, it needs to be corrected, and it has to be read about, and for what exactly do libraries exist, about the satisfaction of what needs? There are “scientific and professional” in one place, in another “cultural” and so on. But what we need to adopt is a bill that regulates relations and relations in the museum, sorry, in the library, I think it's perfectly clear, and we don't have to translate it into policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u89	Tomenko Mikola Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u90	Dear colleagues, I wanted to draw attention to what Sergey Mikolaiovich Ribuk said. Dear friends, we're looking at two bills prepared by the Ministry of Culture, and I am absolutely convinced that we need to vote for their adoption in order to get here to the Supreme Council and do the proper paperwork. Because once we reject and return to the Ministry of Culture, we will be waiting for this bill for a long time, and we have no guarantee that it will be professionally prepared. Therefore, the first reading should be accepted. The committee should involve experts, library experts, librarians themselves, and make a normal bill here in the walls of the Supreme Council. Another thesis. We need to understand that life has gone far, and we actually have libraries like at least three categories: there are libraries, actually modern, where the Internet, computerization and so on, where there are no actually carriers of such books, and we need to think about how to operate here; there are traditional libraries, and here the colleagues say, there is a danger that they don't update, and there is also how to act; and there is a very important ingredient in the library system -- we have a rare book, and here is the biggest problem with this rare old book. I was recently contacted by the director of the rare book of the University of Nižin, where about a hundred thousand unique ancient books are not available for restoration. So obviously we have to consider these three elements. One library needs another library, another library needs another library, another library needs a third library. And of course you have to use the experience of civilized countries, the library can't be just a city where books are published and recorded. It's a meeting place, a learning place, an educational place. That is, if the state finances it, it should function as a means of communicating people in rural areas or in urban areas. This does not mean that the librarian should go and go, so it is usually necessary to strengthen the study article. We need to retrain, do a normal retest of librarians, so that the people in which the soul is at work, not who are there, are sitting and working for the last days. So the next proposal is that we vote in the first reading, we involve the professionals of the libraries themselves, and the committee prepares us for a second reading of a law that is needed by the country and one that can change the situation for the better.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u91	My fellow Members, I am very sorry, but under the Rules, only the factions who did not participate in the discussion are represented in the vote in accordance with the 31st article of the Rules. Similarly, the unforeseeable closing word in the simplified procedure. So I'm very sorry, please, we have to follow the rules of the Rules. I'm voting on the adoption of the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Libraries and Library. Registration number 3077. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:48:59]] For 259. Decision taken. A draft Act amending article 26 of the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Status of Foreigners and Persons Without Citizenship is being announced for consideration. Registration number 2254. Deputy Interior Minister Marmazov Vasil Evgenovich will report.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u92	Thank you. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! Dear National Deputies! For your consideration, a draft of the Ukrainian Law, which has been developed by the Ministry of Internal Affairs to carry out the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for the purpose of establishing a foreigner's and stateless person's certificate for the return of the document provided for in article 3, paragraph 4, of the Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union on Readmission, is proposed. The purpose of this bill is to regulate the issue of the departure of foreigners outside Ukraine in order to readmission of persons. It provides for the addition of article 26 of the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Status of Foreigners and Persons Without Citizenship to a new part in which it provides that, in the event of a readmission, foreign nationals and stateless persons who do not have valid passports may follow the testimony of a foreigner and a stateless person to return, who will be formed by a foreigner for departure from Ukraine to a State of origin or permanent residence or to return to other countries under the conditions of recognition of this instrument in accordance with international agreements. I would like to note that the introduction of these changes in the future will also allow the use of the Ukrainian alien's certificate to return not only to implement the readmission agreement between Ukraine and the European Union, but also to make similar agreements with other countries - providers of illegal migrants and to create legal preconditions for the return of foreigners and stateless persons to the Fatherland. The implementation of this Law will not require additional costs from the State Budget. The bill is in agreement with all relevant authorities. Please support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u93	Thank you, Vasil Evgenovich. Have a seat, please. Correspondence from the committee is Helen Fedorovna Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u94	Honourable Alexandre Volodymyrovich, honourable colleagues, Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations at its meeting on 14 May 2008, reviewed the draft Act amending article 26 of the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Status of Foreigners and Persons Without Citizenship, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers on 20 March 2008. The need for drafting a bill is due to the need for a legislative settlement of the issue of the exit from the State of aliens and stateless persons in accordance with Ukraine's international agreements on readmission of persons and in accordance with the order envisaged by these treaties. In particular, article 3 of the Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union on the readmission of persons provides that, in the absence of foreigners and stateless persons, they will leave Ukraine for a foreigner and a stateless person to return, which is marked as an addition to this agreement. I would like to remind you that article 26 of the current Ukrainian Law provides that foreigners and stateless persons may leave Ukraine exclusively with valid passports. Thus, if illegal migrants do not have valid passports, they cannot be returned to the countries of exit because they do not have documents that identify the person and are recognized by the European Union. Much of the illegal migrants detained in Ukraine do not have any documents at all that identify a person. The situation is also compounded by the fact that there are no embassies or consulates in Ukraine in a number of countries providing illegal migrants with virtually no identification and deportation to countries of origin and permanent residence. The bill proposes to supplement article 26 of the Law on the Legal Status of Foreigners and Persons Without Citizenship with a new part in which it provides that aliens and stateless persons can leave Ukraine not only for real passports but also for foreign and stateless persons to return. In its conclusion, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority notes that the draft law amending article 26 of the Act as a result of the first reading may be taken as a basis. At the same time.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u95	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u96	The management makes no comment. The Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations has returned to this bill for days and we propose to adopt not only the first reading as a basis but also the whole. I'd like to support you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u97	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Let's sign up for a discussion. Bondarenko Volodymir Dmitrovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u98	Vladimir Bondarenko. I support the proposal for adoption throughout this bill, because any improvement in the situation on the borders, the control of entry, the exit of citizens will be for the benefit of the state. We have recently observed such individual soldiers, such as Sande Adelaji of Kiev, who went there in the summer, said to have created a bank in Nigeria, returned here, had to legitimize this type of boat ride from the point of view of not committing crimes there or here, and then went there or here. So I want to support this bill and I urge everyone to vote in favour of it today as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u99	Hare Ivan Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u100	John the Rabbit. Ukrainian People’s Party Ladies and gentlemen, this bill certainly needs to be supported, but I've only gone out to the rostrum to get your attention that the bill requires a mechanism. I mean, even the foreigner's licenses, it takes some money to get the Ministry to produce them and not to be delayed, like with passports. That's the first one. Secondly, I want to draw your attention to the fact that we have legislation on readmission with the European Union. But once again, we have to work more intensively with European structures to create these mechanisms to bring our border into order. Now there's another problem, we have a ratified readmission agreement with the Russian Federation. But once again, we are provided with these mechanisms today to speed it up, because delaying such things leads to the fact that there are so many people in the territory of Ukraine who live in different cultures, other traditions, things that don't always, we're going to say that they follow legislation. So in this direction, I would suggest that the Cabinet of Ministers strengthen its responsibility. But there is another very important problem that we should not let out of our sight. We know that we have the most people coming to us from Asia, and we have no readmission agreements with these countries. So the Cabinet of Ministers needs to step up work with countries like Pakistan, like China, like the rest of them, where people go through the territory of Ukraine, and they're sitting there. And if we go to this problem precisely with understanding the need to create mechanisms, then we'll save our territory, because so many migrants are already in the territory of Ukraine, and that's going to be a very big problem. So in the end, we have to remember that there must be Ukrainians on this earth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u101	Kožara Leonid Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u102	Deputy Kojara, faction of the Party of the Regions. You know, I think we don't fully realize the consequences of changing this law. First of all, what are we talking about? We are returned from the European Union to a person whose citizenship is not installed and cannot be installed only on the basis of what was found in his pocket by a gift card from the Kiev subway or by a bus. As a state of Ukraine, we are obliged to issue a document stating that he is a person without citizenship, that is, actually to passport the person. And he's with this document published by Ukraine, and then he's going to travel around the world, and he's going to be returned to Ukraine. I propose that this bill be returned for further work, that we study all possible consequences that may bring about changes to the law. And you know, we recently submitted to the European Union treaty and ratified the readmission agreement, hoping that we would be able to enter into an agreement on a simplified visa regime. Today we see the results. The consequences of these changes to the law are not seen yet. And we can imagine how many people without a certain citizenship, without other documents today will actually drive with a non-citizens passport issued by Ukraine. Once again, I urge everyone to vote and return this law to the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u103	For reasons of vote, Oleg Alexandrovich Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u104	Alexander Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! What Kojara’s colleague said is part of the truth. Why Part of the Truth? Because, really, I, for example, was very skeptical about our vote on the readmission agreement. But if you read this bill, it's also good for Ukraine. Why? Because if this man is who he really is. And what we voted for, by the way, our faction didn't vote for it when it was voted for -- for the readmission. Once a receipt or something has been found by returning it to Ukraine, it will remain forever in Ukraine if we do not implement this bill. Because in this case, we're giving this person the opportunity, on the basis of a certificate, to return to his country, to his country of origin: Bangladesh, Sri Lanka and so on. So this is exactly the option that makes it easier for Ukraine to deal with illegal migrants, that the problem of readmission is really a problem. But please read this bill. He needs to be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u105	Thank you. The discussion is over. I am voting on the adoption of the draft Act amending article 26 of the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Status of Foreigners and Persons Without Citizenship. Registration No. 2254. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:00:46]] For 233 Decision taken. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, we continue our morning plenary session. I would like to inform you that we have considered the possibilities of ensuring the functioning of the Supreme Council of Ukraine during this year and have agreed to make a contribution today and approve the project of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the current year. I'm asking you to invite the Ukrainian people's deputies to the hall. In agreement with all the leaders of the MP factions, I am voting on the proposal to place the agenda of the session and today's schedule of meetings on the consideration of the funds of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the current year. Please vote. [[12:31:49]] For-300 Decision taken. I ask Alejandro Sergiyovitch Efraemov to inform you about the 2009 draft Decision on the Corrosion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u107	Honourable Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues, according to article 85, part 1, paragraph 35, of the Constitution of Ukraine, is under the authority of the Supreme Council to approve the funds of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. As you know, the Ukrainian State Budget 2009 Act approves the expenditure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the exercise of the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. At a meeting of the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Security of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on February 18, this year, a 2009 project was considered for the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Designed by the Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, within the limits approved by the State budget for 2009 by expenditure and taking into account the state deficit of 118 million dollars. And it was unanimously decided to agree with him and to bring him up to date with the Supreme Council of Ukraine. You've received a draft decision, please support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u108	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, in agreement with all parliamentary factions, I am putting to the vote the Supreme Council of Ukraine's 2009 ruling on Costaris of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:33:44]] For 347 Decision taken. Supreme Council regulation number 4090 has been adopted. The Supreme Council's cocory has been approved for the current year. The draft Act amending article 11 of the Ukrainian Law on the Order of Import into Ukraine, Customs and Taxation of Personal Goods, Goods and Means of Transport imported by Citizens into Customs Territory of Ukraine is being announced for consideration, registration number 2739. He will report to the First Deputy Minister of Finance, Umanski Igor Ivanovich. There's no report, the question's off the books. The draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on pre-document checks at border crossing points, registration number 2766, is being announced for consideration. He reports: Mikhailo Alexandrovich Požinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u109	Thank you. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The draft law is designed to improve customs clearance procedures, such as with regard to pre-documentation at border crossing points. Today, certain types of import controls are usually carried out twice, both at the border crossing points when importing goods and at the customs office of destination. Certain import control functions are duplicated by various government authorities that create additional obstacles and delays in the customs processing of goods. Considering that, according to the current legislation, the exercise of different types of State control, as well as the imposition of functions and the exercise of those controls on control bodies, are regulated by specific special laws, the issue of the imposition of functions and the execution of prior documentary controls on goods subject to State control on customs authorities need to be regulated by legislation. To this end, this bill was proposed by the government to amend certain legislative acts. It is proposed to amend the Ukrainian Customs Code and the laws “For Veterinary Medicine”, “For Quarantine Plants”, “For Environmental Protection”, “For Food Safety and Quality” and “For Export, Import and Return of Cultural Values” in part of the reliance on previous documentary control of goods at border crossing points that are subject to sanitary, veterinary, phytosanitary, environmental control and control of the movement of cultural values to customs authorities. I propose to adopt, on the basis of Ukraine's Cabinet of Ministers, a draft of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments and Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine concerning the exercise of prior documentary control at border crossing points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u110	Thank you, Alexander Mikhailovich. Have a seat, please. A report from the committee, instead of the anticipated report by Sergio Anatoliovich Teryohina, National Deputy Shamanov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u111	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Tax and Customs Policy at its meeting on 9 September 2008 reviewed the draft Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine, registration number 2766. [[on the implementation of previous documentary control at border crossing points]] The bill foresees the reliance on customs officials to carry out prior documentary control of individual goods under the control of sanitary, veterinary, phytosanitary, environmental control and control of the movement of cultural values through the state border of Ukraine. The adoption of the bill will enable the implementation of international requirements for the application of a more simplified and accelerated control regime at border crossing points across the state border on the movement of cargo, as well as the simplification of documentation of border crossing procedures in accordance with international law and the practice of organising joint control of Ukrainian customs by neighbouring States. It should be noted that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has adopted Decree No. 269 of 13.04. 2005 and number 636 from 09.07.2008, according to which work is being done to improve the control mechanism of their imports. At the same time, only the adopted law will provide a real legal mechanism for the issues mentioned above. In the course of the discussion of the bill by the Ukrainian National Deputies, members of the Committee have made proposals and comments on the clarification and addition of some of the provisions of the bill that will be considered during its consideration on the Committee's second reading. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in its conclusion of September 8, 2008, proposes to adopt a bill on the basis of some observations. In view of the above, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine proposes the adoption of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u112	The final sentence, please repeat.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u113	Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u114	Please sit down. Let's sign up for a discussion. Dubil, Valery Alexanderovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u115	BUT faction, Dubil Valeriy Aleksandrovitch. The issue of simplification and improvement of the customs control mechanism is raised every day at every post of customs control in Ukraine. The imposition of pre-documentation functions on customs will greatly simplify the customs procedure and reduce kilometres of queues at checkpoints. The proposed procedure for the 1982 Geneva Convention, to which Ukraine joined on July 4, 2002. Under such conditions, I am encouraged by the proper bill passed by the government of Julius Volodymyrovna Timoshenko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u116	Ensign Alexei Vitaliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u117	The honourable chairman, the honourable national deputies, are things that do not allow this bill to be supported. This is first of all about documentary control. The bill provides for the inclusion in the article of the First Customs Code, according to which the previous documentary control is the control of measures taken by the customs authorities at the points of entry through State control concerning certain goods imported into the customs territory of Ukraine. In our view, it would be appropriate for the project to provide for positions that should be included in the Customs Code of Ukraine and reflect the substance and mechanisms of the previous documentary control, without which it actually complicates the procedure through customs control. I don't see here that in this text of the bill without our comments, which can improve, ask everything else. In fact, it's about overloading the process of customs control. So it's proposed that this bill be sent for further processing.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u118	The discussion is over. Please, Mikola Volodymyrovich Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, as co-author of another bill that we will return to when the Conciliation Board raises a question about how to simplify and encourage the introduction of cultural values into Ukraine, I want to say that this topic that the government has raised today needs to be supported in order to further develop. Indeed, it must be described as a process of simplification, for today’s paradoxical situation: for example, someone bought Ukrainian cultural value, which, for example, was exported from Ukraine. He imports it to show it in the Ukrainian museum, he goes through a demeaning customs procedure, he pays the congregations to restore cultural value to the Ukrainian people. So it's strategically necessary, but of course I'm with Alexi Plotnick, and I agree that it should be clearly stated that this simplifies rather than complicates the procedure for the return of cultural values to Ukraine. So I would consider it necessary in the first reading to accept and think about all aspects of this problem, how we can make it as much easier for us to return cultural values to Ukraine as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u120	For the reasons of the vote, Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u121	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! I thank the government for introducing this fine-tuning bill to amend the Customs Code and for making changes to the Veterinary Medicine Act and to quarantine plants, because we are now a state that is being used as an outcast. And it's very correct that there's still an anticipated state-of-the-art veterinary control at. de. all modes of transport so as not to be transported. I believe that these are necessary changes in both the law and the interaction of customs authorities with government authorities that control when moving goods through customs control so that there are no separate smuggling points. This law will only improve the situation. Let's make some changes then, taking into account the critical points, but it needs to be accepted as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u122	The discussion is over. I am voting on the adoption of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on pre-documentation at border crossing points. Registration number 2766. Please be sure. [[12:44:58]] For 216 The decision is not taken. Part of the people's deputies are asked to return to the vote, because there is no provision for their ability to ensure the functioning of the "Council" systems for the absence of part of the national MPs. I am voting on the motion to return to the vote on the bill. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:45:51]] For 252 We're back to the hearing. I am voting on the adoption of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the exercise of prior documentary control at border crossing points. Registration number 2766. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:46:27]] For 228 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the first Deputy Finance Minister, Igor Ivanovich Umanski, apologizes to the people’s deputies because he was obliged to be present at the government’s house and failed to arrive in time for consideration. If we have no objection, we will return to the matter. Is there no objection? A draft Act amending article 11 of the Ukrainian Act on the Order of Import into Ukraine, Customs and Taxation of Personal Things, Goods and Means of Transport imported by Citizens into Customs Territory of Ukraine is under consideration. Registration number 2739. He will report to the First Deputy Minister of Finance, Umanski Igor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u123	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished national MPs, I really apologize for a certain delay. Let me introduce the draft law, it's very simple, on one page, all of you have the opportunity to look at it, to analyze it. The need for change is due to Ukraine's accession and membership of the Convention on Temporary Imports, the so-called Istanbul Convention, and the order of temporary importation into the territory of Ukraine, which is regulated by the relevant law in those parts that we now propose to change contradicts the terms of this convention. It is proposed to remove the requirement for a written, written obligation to withdraw the vehicle through which the temporary importation is carried. That is, the very fact that it is imported is already a commitment. And according to the convention, there is no need for a written obligation to export. It is also proposed to remove the ban on the use of a means of transport imported temporarily. A perfectly normal and logical norm that allows third parties to use and operate a means of transport, but which does not deprive or remove obligations regarding its export or exportation. And the third offer. It is based on the practice of the customs authorities in minimizing the schemes that, unfortunately, are in force in Ukraine today when a temporary means of transport is introduced, then artificially formed or burned, or a car accident. In fact, he's looking at the parts and the parts.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u124	Please finish, we have a reduced procedure, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u125	Thus, a ban is imposed on such a scheme to minimize tax liabilities in the import of cars. Thank you very much, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u126	Thank you. Have a seat, please. A report from the committee. Shamanov Valery Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u127	The President-in-Office of the Ministers of Ukraine, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Tax and Customs Policy, considered the draft law on amendments to article 11 of the Ukrainian Law on the Order of Imports, Transfer to Ukraine of Customs and Taxation of Personal Goods, Goods and Means of Transport, is being forwarded by citizens to the customs territory of Ukraine. The bill is aimed at implementing national legislation on temporary importation of means of transport into the requirements of the Interim Import Convention, the Istanbul Convention to which Ukraine joined in 2004. In particular, it is proposed to simplify the procedure for the implementation of formalities related to the temporary import of private transportation equipment. In accordance with part three of article 11 of the Ukrainian Law on the Order of Imports, Transfer to Ukraine of Customs and Taxation of Personal Goods, Goods and Means of Transport which are Imported, Transfered by Citizens to Customs territory of Ukraine, it is stipulated that the means of transport under codes 8701, 8702, 8703, 8704, 8705, 8705, temporary importation under written obligation of re-export may not be transferred to the possession or use of other persons. Such means of transport may be designed for continuous use after payment of the relevant taxes and congregations provided for by legislation in the import of means of transport for free use. At the same time, the Convention on Temporary Imports states that each Contracting Party is obliged to grant temporary import of goods, means of transport and has the right to make such imports subject to the provision of a customs document or guarantee, unless otherwise provided by an appendix. However, the “c” of the said convention provides that consent to the temporary importation of commercial or private means of transport is granted without the requirement of a customs document.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u128	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u129	The only warning comes with regard to the bill proposed by the drafters to form part 3 of article 11 of the Law concerning the absence of me editing the term “use”. That is, temporary imports under the obligation to re-export vehicles under codes 8701, 8702, 8703, 8704, 8705 cannot be made into spare parts or transferred to the possession of other persons. Thus, there are no prohibitions on the use of such means of transport during their temporary importation by others, which can be used for the purpose of using such means of transport without paying taxes and congregations. Taking into account the above-mentioned and with a view to the further implementation of national legislation on international customs law, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the draft Act on the amendment of article 11 of the Ukrainian Law on the Order of Import into Ukraine, the Customs Treatment and Taxation of Personal Goods, Goods and Means of Transport imported by citizens into customs territory of Ukraine, as a basis and as a whole, as a law. [[transmitted]] Having laid down part 3 of article 11 of the Ukrainian Law on the Order of Imports of Ukraine, Customs and Taxation of Personal Goods, Goods and Means of Transport, which are imported by Ukrainian citizens into Ukrainian customs territory in such an edition. [[transmitted]] Codes 8701, 8702, 8703, 8704, 8705 Ukrainian classification of goods of external economic activity temporary import under re-export obligations cannot be made into spare parts transferred to the possession or use of other persons. Such means of transport may be designed for continuous use after payment of the relevant taxes and congregations provided for by legislation in the import of means of transport for free use. At a meeting of the committee, a representative of the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine agreed with the proposed additions. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concludes with such a remark that the national deputies of Ukraine are members of the committee and are proposing to adopt the law as a basis. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u130	Thank you. Is there a need to discuss? There's no need. I am voting on the adoption of the draft Law amending article 11 of the Ukrainian Law on the Order of Imports into Ukraine, on Customs and on Taxation of Personal Things, Goods and Means of Transport imported by Citizens into Customs territory of Ukraine. Registration No. 2739. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:55:27]] For 254 Decision taken. The committee's proposal to adopt this bill as a whole. Is there a denial of national MPs? There's no objection. I am voting on the adoption of the entire draft Law, as drafted by Shaman's Valeri Viktorovich, the draft Law amending article 11 of the Ukrainian Law on the Order of Import into Ukraine, on Customs and on Taxation of Personal Things, Goods and Means of Transport, which is carried by citizens to the customs territory of Ukraine. Registration No. 2739. Puts to the vote as a whole. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:56:27]] For the 250. Decision taken. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on the bringing into conformity with the Ukrainian Law "On International Private Law"]] Registration No. 2438. Reported: Justice Minister Oneichuk Mikola Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u131	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! On September 1, 2005, the Act on International Private Law, which was adopted by Parliament, became effective. During the period since its application, a number of commissions have emerged in regulating social relations, including the private legal nature of the international component. First of all, it is labour migration. In this regard, the government has drafted a bill that has just been announced and which provides for the introduction of a number of Ukrainian laws, including the Labour Code, namely the Law on International Private Law and the Code of Commerce, the Code of Masters, the Code of Administrative Procedures, and a number of other laws. This draft law removes the relevant coalitions and improves the level of legal regulation of relations relating to a private and legal nature with the participation of a foreign element. With regard to procedural legislation, issues relating primarily to the procedure for the execution of Ukrainian court orders in the territory of foreign states where Ukrainian citizens enter into employment and the same procedure is envisaged for the execution of foreign courts in Ukraine. As far as the Labour Code and the Law on International Private Law are concerned, as I have said, they are brought into line, bearing in mind that the Law on International Private Law is in force here, taking into account the doctrine that international agreements agreed upon by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the application of the relevant relations are applied in accordance with the principle of priority. Thank you for your attention, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u132	Thank you, Mikolo Vasilovich, please sit down. A report from the committee of Julia Volodymyrna Novikova.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u133	Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Justice, meeting on 11 / 06 In 2008, the bill came up with the following. The purpose of the bill is to bring Ukraine's legislative acts into line with the Law on International Private Law, as the honourable minister has informed us. The project proposes to amend the Labour Code, the Economic Code, the Economic and Procedural Code, the Civil Procedural Code, the Code of Administrative Justice, also the Law of Ukraine on the Enforcement of Enforcement and, in particular, the Law on International Private Law. In particular, article 8 of the Labour Code provides that the labour relations of citizens working outside the country will be governed by laws on international private law. In the amendments to the Civil Procedure Code, it is suggested that more detail should be given to the use of the courts of Ukraine for legal aid to foreign courts and vice versa when the execution of the orders of foreign courts is carried out by courts in Ukraine. The Code of Conduct has been amended to determine the competence of the courts in matters involving foreign enterprises, some other matters. The bill also provides for the revision of article 382 of the Code of Masters regarding the form and order of the external economic contract. The Law on the Enforcement of the Project proposes that article 18 be supplemented by a new basis for the discovery of the enforceable implementation, namely, when the implementing letter came on the basis of an approval to grant a compulsory execution of a foreign court’s decision. As for the findings of the General Scientific and Scientific Administration, there are some observations. In principle, the committee supports this bill, but there are some comments from the GNAU, from the Supreme Court, from the Supreme Economics.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u134	Please finish Julia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u135	Thank you. Which will have to be taken into account in the preparation of the bill for the second reading. The Committee therefore recommends that the Supreme Council adopt the bill as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u136	Thank you, Julia Volodymyrna. Have a seat, please. Is there a need to discuss? There's no need. I am voting on the adoption of the draft law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to comply with the Ukrainian Law on International Private Law, registration number 2438. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:01:56]] For 382 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the hour of the “Victory” is announced. Please write. Kirilenko Viacheslav Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u137	Excuse me, please. Dubil Valeriy Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u138	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters. Today, thousands of Ukrainians are suffering from financial and economic crises in the country, and one of the biggest causes of this situation is the banking system. Today, a huge number of people have faced the problems of paying off their loans. One way is when people really don't have the money to deal with banks. But another situation is when banks voluntarily change their interest rate on loans in a unilateral manner. During the last month, thousands of lenders received letters informing financial institutions of an increase in the interest rate. In doing so, some institutions have introduced their practice of constantly increasing the interest rate. In fact, these structures translate their responsibilities into the shoulders of their borrowers. In particular, borrowers who received loans in foreign currency found themselves in a difficult situation. Because of the significant understatement of the bracelet, these people simply do not have enough physical resources to pay off the loan and pay interest. For example, when a person received 4,000 bracelets, he could buy $800 and could settle for loans. At the moment, if we see speculation in the currency market, and yesterday we've already seen that the course has reached 8.6. So I urge you how much we've been talking about, how much the Supreme Council has been addressing our President, and I urge you to stop this by making money on the mountain of man on this speculation, and I urge the President to release Stelmach from his position. There is a real possibility that the failure of borrowers to comply with their contractual obligations can actually lead to the collapse of the entire financial system of Ukraine. The reason for this situation is that banks and other financial institutions try to use gaps in legislation and speculate on a deeper financial crisis. That's why I'm proposing. On 22 December 2008, in order to remedy the situation that has arisen and prevent abuse by financial institutions, I registered draft Ukrainian Law No. 3524 amending the Ukrainian Law on Financial Services and Public Regulation of Financial Services Markets. [[on the regulation of the order of financial services markets]] The adoption of the bill would ensure proper protection of the interests of the borrowers and remove the gaps in effective legislation regarding the unregulated procedure for making changes to the relevant contracts. The key point of this bill is: “Financing institutions are prohibited in a unilateral manner from changing the essential conditions of the financial services contracts they have entered into, such as the reduction in their duration, the increase in the interest rate.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u139	Have a seat, please. Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich. Adam Ivanovich gives the word to the deputy of Caletnick.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u140	The Communist Party faction, Caletnik. Honourable compatriots, saving their disastrously falling ratings, are trying to convince voters of their lack of involvement in the economic, political, and social problems that have plagued Ukraine. All those in power today, the President's Secretariat, to whom certain national electorates are so fond, are so loudly shouting under blue flags, and the government has led Ukraine to the edge of the gap. Today, state-owned party speakers are doing everything they can to find those responsible for the problems of the state, wherever they are, but not in their own party ranks. Before watering the dirt of the past and blaming everyone around them, they would have to apologize to the people for their sins of yesterday and today. Everyone knows that where local councils make up the majority of the Party of Regions, there is neither land nor property that belongs to the people -- everything is stolen and owned. Our faction will not allow these crimes to be concealed. The Communist Party is the only political force that requires simultaneous responsibility for the collapse of the country, both the President and the government. Others are capable only of culinary conversations and loud speeches from the rostrum. When it comes to making a consolidated decision, brilliant personalities are transformed into swans, cancers, and bats from a famous fairy tale. You can only imagine the essence of the dictionary of this party, which today, by demonstrating a sincere Ukrainian language with a Galician accent, is something very similar to the American language, hysterically convincing the people in their crystalline honesty. Not long ago, one of them, as a student, shamelessly signed the KGB and, while hiding in dark corners, prepared a special service for her own reporting to her countrymen and friends, signing them “Agent Teresa”. Just two years ago, this so - called truth fighter went to Parliament in worn shoes and skirts, and today she is irritating people with clothes from Louis Witton and diamond ornaments. Perhaps Agent Theresa's experience allows her to be skilled in serving the oligarchs of the white and blue party, which brings her personally good income. Surprisingly, the president, who has already lost all the more intelligent members of his team, is now using unprincipled representatives of the Party of Regions, who are troubled by only dissatisfied ambitions. At the same time, they are destroying the principles of Ukraine’s statehood, pushing the people to poverty by playing a war with the government and the government. And that's surprising, because the average citizen is mentioned by the president, the government, and the white and blue team only a month before the election. To eliminate irritability and powerlessness in the decision-making process, white-blue pseudo-positions use fantasies on "Buyed-Sold". The owners of factories and mines, companies of heavy and light industry, are actually controlling financial and commercial flows, and are the actual owners of the economy, conveniently hiding under the “opposition” sign. Does this business elite, which is the shock force of the Party of Regions, think about the interests of the average citizen and his problems? You don't have to play with empty words. The Communists did not have, have, nor will they have any bearing on today’s coalition or government. Only when the votes of the Communists give them the majority in Parliament and form a government that will truly be a national government will we bear full responsibility for its activities and the situation in the state. Colleagues! It is necessary to stop the hysteria and dog bite that does not suit the Parliament of a civilized country in which we all want to live. On behalf of the Communist Party, I call, let's work, let's talk less, and let the people give our work an assessment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u141	Instead of the national deputies Burlakov and Špenov, Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich is speaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u142	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! Dear voters! Privatization in a period of political, economic instability is not worth the effort. Now it is unlikely that serious investors with serious money will be able to come to the competition, and the winner will be able to provide a strategic perspective for the development of the enterprise and pay serious money to the budget. Privatization today is in fact a disaster for Ukraine's national interests. The thing is, if there were one price per company a year ago, one amount of money in potential buyers and one opportunity to take credit, now the stock market has fallen sharply, zero financial resources in corporations, and the lack of the ability to take credit can lead to structures that could come a year or two ago. Taking part in privatization with full pockets of money, they're not going to be able to do that right now. The empty - pocket competition does not constitute a normal price, and strategic enterprises will be sold at almost no cost. Look, a year ago, a one-bedroom apartment in Kiev cost $100,000, now the price is three times lower. What's changed? The same people, the same business structures, there's no money, there's no credit, and the price went down three times. Similarly, prices have fallen on the assets of businesses. There is a legitimate question: Why does the government want to sell businesses quickly today? But for one thing, to get the money and get the holes in the budget. It's a double crime: selling businesses for nothing and then eating them. Costs coming from privatization should work for the future, they should be invested in investment projects, in new technologies, in development. Therefore, the Party of Regions believes that to privatize in a crisis when there is no effect on sales is simply criminal in relation to its people and its state. If there's a business that's been bankrupt, a company-bankruptcy, where people haven't been paid for months, they can be sold, as they say, and at no cost. I'm talking about businesses that need to invest money in order to get them out of bankruptcy. The state has not been able to invest money in such businesses under economic upheaval, and I am not even talking about the current situation when the country is experiencing the effects of the crisis. However, the condition for the sale of such enterprises must be the serious investment obligations of the buyer in order to make it possible for the buyer to invest in the company, to ensure its development, to restore jobs, to pay wages, and to pay taxes. And when it comes to strategic objects that are at the heart of the country’s national economic security, such objects can be sold simply criminally during a period of economic and political crisis. The head of the Holding Foundation, Dmitri Parfenenko, said that 5 of these shares, some of which were planned for privatisation, had stated that during the last three years these objects did not bring dividends, and it was a great luxury to keep such objects in your pocket. He's telling everything absolutely right, but the question is, when is it gonna sell? Here you have grown potatoes, come to the market to sell buckets of potatoes, but come in the evening when there's nothing there, nobody's there. Someone came up and said they'd buy this bucket five times cheaper. Why would you do that if tomorrow morning you could bring it to the market and sell it five times as expensive? Here, if there's a brain in your head, you won't be selling potatoes at night. We have to wait a year or two for the country to come out of the crisis and then the company price will go up. I have deep respect for the head of the Holding Foundation, Dmitri Parthenenko, is a high-class professional, brilliant lawyer, economist, very literate person. But the thing is, he's a hostage. He is the director of the department, he has to carry out the budget, and the Budget Act contains nine billion dollars of privatisation revenue. The budget is a law and must be implemented. He's right here in his position as Head of Intelligence, but we need to look at this from the point of view of the state. Or do we need a budget that leads to the sale of strategic enterprises at no cost? That is why we demand a review of the budget, a removal of nine billion from it, no matter what the cost. And not to push the country's holding fund into actions that could damage the country's national interests. In general, privatization should be the only approach. It's not party, it's not government, it's state. We need to answer the question, Is it convenient for a state to sell businesses for free and to eat these money? This is not convenient, but simply criminal in relation to his country and his people. Therefore, all reasonable people should stop the sale. The opposition must stop its public statements, public explanations, through the media. And those who have the authority of influence are obliged to directly prevent this privatization, which, in addition to harming them, is bound to do nothing. The President has that possibility. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u143	National Deputy Hrapov, please. People's MP Kravchenko instead of Deputy Chrapova.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u144	Dear colleagues! I received a telephone call from the electorates of Donetsk, who tried to seal the boilers in the Gorgas district mine centre yesterday, allegedly for gas debts. In doing so, the claims were based on gross violations of existing legislation, and the Donetsk City Council rightly appealed to the court, which ruled in favour of the City Council. The boilers were taken under the control of the city council and the population. On the phone, I was told that people were being tried to use Birkut, and I would like to warn the "hot heads" of Naftogaza, from the oatmeal, “hot heads in the face of Kucherenko, who was shaving yesterday, on the television screen, described how he would turn off the gas. I would like to say that once Mr. Kucherenko, as a member of the Government, has paid 1 billion wages to miners, once Mr. Kucherenko has made arrangements in his own household, which he does not know at all, then he will be completely united and all debts on gas. I want to warn "hot heads" and don't joke about Donbass at all, don't forget the '90s, don't forget what Donbass has been putting up with for a long time, but if she does, it's gonna be a long time. You must understand, dear colleagues, from Our Ukraine, that today you are very dangerously spreading the situation regarding the assignment and name of Stus to the State University of Donetsk. You'll remember that we can't do this, not what we can't do, not what we can do, we'll just raise people up and we won't allow any commission to come and decide for Stus. There were no students there, the university's scientific council did not make that decision. So what I'm saying is, as long as there's an irrigation situation in Donbass, you're going to get a very serious break. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u145	Instead of the national deputy of Hayday, Demyanchuk Victoria Alexandrovna
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u146	Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! Going out to the rostrum was a source of concern, concern about the situation surrounding the enterprises of the bourgeois pool of Alexandria Kirovograd district, which is rented by the closed-circuit company Energo Coal. On April 23, 2009, a 5-year term will be issued as the ZAT “Energovogilla” leased entire property complexes: the “Costantinski” cut, the “Dimitrovska” briquette factory, the “Heat-electric power plant”, the “Alexandrian ore repair plant, the Installation, Dismantling and equipment repair plant. Ukraine's Rent of State and Municipal Property Act foresees the need to improve the efficiency of the use of state-owned property leased and to the contrary. This five - year lease was a five - year term for torture for employees of rented businesses. The efforts of the tenant ZAT “Energougil” have destroyed the labour force. At the time of signing the five - company lease, 3,000 155 people were employed, and today, at the end of the lease, 1,000 87 people were employed, 2068 were released. Production at all enterprises is virtually stopped, heat and electricity are not produced by buro-coal briquettes, as the main output of the activity is not produced. As a result, Ukraine’s rural population is deprived of the ability to burn its homes with this domestic fuel. The Regional Department of the State Property Fund in the Kirovograd region does not control the efficiency of the use of state property by renters, nor does it take effective measures to break up the rent in the short term. As a result of these activities, the tenant has destroyed the coal sector in the Kirovograd region, as a result of such actions, against the backdrop of crisis processes in the state -- deliberate destruction of the coal sector is a crime that is suffered primarily by ordinary people. Unemployment, poverty, disease, abandoned homes, hungry children, disabled families are all social consequences. In fact, employees and those who have been freed from their jobs are not paid a salary by law-abiding law enforcement, they have not been recalculated to a pension fund, they have not been provided with fuel in 2007. During the years of the lease, the debt of wages reached 27 million $750,000. There's still a chance to stabilize the situation. We need to listen to the demands of the labour community and immediately terminate the ZAT “Energougil” leases and return the enterprises to the state. State authorities and authorities in the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, are forced to make the ZAT “Energougil” account to the full extent with employees of leased enterprises from wages. Please consider my statement to be a parliamentary address to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the deputy of the Supreme Council from the BUT faction Zhevago Constantine Valentinović, whose business is the founder of the ZAT “Energovogil”. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u147	Instead of the National Deputy Grigorovitch, the People's Deputy of Argevitin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u148	Stanislav Arjewitin is a member of the “For Ukraine” group. Statement by the Association of Ukrainian Banks. “The Supreme Council of Ukraine has adopted in its first reading the Act on First Instance Measures to Prevent the Impact of the World Financial Crisis on the Hemisphere Sector”, which provides for the granting of extraordinary preferences to enterprises in the form of extension of loans and the restructuring of foreign exchange debt under the terms of the dollar that was in force at the time of the conclusion of the agreements. The Association of Ukrainian Banks shares the State’s efforts to support this area, but not in the manner prescribed by law. In both cases, the adoption of this law by deputies is a loss of reality. And it was the authors of this bill that couldn't answer why businesses were buying flour and other raw materials in foreign currency, or abroad, at a record crop in Ukraine in 2008. Who's going to take the loss for creating the tax terms for restructuring credits for this sector? The budget, and these funds were placed in his deficit. Why an uneven competitive environment is created in a country in a complex crisis situation, there are advantages given only to individual enterprises or subsectors. Why is it possible to provide direct benefits, as well as to profiled companies, or owners, along with bread companies? The Ukrainian Banks Association considers the following to be necessary: granting privileges to individual commercial entities at the expense of the resources of the National Bank of Ukraine and applying questionable transactions is unacceptable and dangerous to society because it is a hidden issue, the embezzlement of the National Bank’s foreign reserves and budget losses, i.e. for payers of all sectors. Such decisions create a dangerous precedent in society, since other lenders will seek similar benefits when adopting the bill. The distribution of this order to all borrowers requires about 150 billion dollars, more than half of the 2009 State Budget. Is it clear to the authors of the bill that this will throw the country into the chasm of hyperinflation and do they appreciate what this will mean for our country's economy? The adoption of an obviously lobbyist, local law is evidence that the authorities are continuing and demonstrating their non-professionality, does not understand the systemic nature of the crisis, the outcome of which they are looking for in reflector reactions to the demand of individual segments of the economy. The Association of Ukrainian Banks has once again demanded that the populist legislative novels that cause conflicts between owners, destroy government-funded credit policies and embezzle state finances. The parliamentary group “For Ukraine!” once again calls on the deputies and asks the members of the Supreme Council to stop speculating on the good name of the great Ukrainian Stus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u149	Instead of the national deputy Samofalov Vernidubov Ivan Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u150	Dear colleagues, I am in a hurry to notify the legal community of Ukraine, or abroad, of our knowledge of where the topic of the dispersal of large plots remains relevant, i.e. the theft of new practical joint plots, inventions, thieves by judges. If previously Sevastopol's so-called Kunicina team in liaison with the Crimea Chamber of Commerce, where President Lucec robbed the Sevastopol community more openly, that is, after a month or two, it was possible to find secret court decisions and signed contracts. The documents in the treaties were signed by even the first persons of the state administration, now it is becoming more difficult for the curious. Desiring to defer the time of the offence from the time of the visit to places where the Kunicin team should sit behind such large-scale acts, by abandoning the services of established civil servants, has found it exceptional to conduct an affair foreign to the Government of the Man of some sympheropol Kostrubu, who, under the authority of the Administration, is engaged in legal proceedings through the courts of such illegal treaties. For example, in parallel with the work of the interim Commission of Inquiry of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the establishment of criminal facts for the embodiment of Sevastopol lands on behalf of the Kunicina Kostruba team, it was alleged that judicial disputes with a private company called Sanlaif were initiated to decorate the Sebastopols for another 11 hectares, five hectares of the Golden Beach in Balaklav and six hectares of the southernmost part of Ukraine, the southernmost part of the Soviet Union on the Saric Cape on the land of the forest fund near the southern coast of the Black Sea. “Golden Beach” is a popular resting place for sevastopols and visitors to the city. According to the figure of the deputy of Gorsovet Andrey Semenov, that at various times in Balaklav there were tauras, Greeks, Genuese, Turks and all visitors, and travelers, and even conquerors who left behind something beautiful in the Bay of Balaklav, the Greeks left an unprecedented poetic description of the Balaklav Bay in Odyssey, the Genuese on the East Cape built Chembala, the Turkish buyer Athanasius Nikitin perpetuated the balaclavian land through three seas, the British built a coastal, and the land of Balaklav, and the resellation of it through disruptive schemes was only risked by what is called the Kunicina team. If they are not stopped, what will be passed on to the next Nahimov square or monument to sunken ships. I'm reporting specifically to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u151	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u152	Three more minutes is mine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u153	Oh, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u154	For Litwinov. For Litwinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u155	Oh, yes, Litwinov, yes, the National MP, the Lithuanian People's Deputy, three more minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u156	I've been handed over, handed over everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u157	Litwinov’s national deputy, Leonid Fedorovich, passed on another three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u158	I would like to inform the sympathetic team of Kunitsin, now the Acting President of the High Economic Court of Demchenko, that on the site “One Register of Judgments” to date, please check this very important, there is no decision of the Judge of the Crimea Mining Court from 3 October 2008, to which she has personally approved a contract, a cable contract, on which the transfer of “Golden Beach” to Balaklav to the private parties, in violation of all the principles of civil law. I say this to the citizen of Demchenk for formal reasons that I was not allowed to consider a cassation complaint, because the decision to steal the land was indeed learned by the Sebastopols in the days. In this regard, the request to Goskomzem is a huge request for judicial practice in this category of cases, indicating that the courts of Ukraine, but above all the Crimea, often decide in favour of legal persons, in violation of the requirements of existing land law, without taking into account the rules and regulations of State registration, thus replacing the existing land law with an inadequate system of decisions that directly prejudice the State with legal persons. It is therefore urgent to order that all decisions of the courts in this category, with the continuation of the regional branches of your units at your disposal, should be sent to you, and that the Legal Office of the State Committee on Land Resources should analyse and report to the management. Otherwise, if we want to leave something in this country, there's nothing else. In connection with such a barbaric seizure, the looting of the Sevastopol Mountains by its decision of 17 February, the President of Ukraine again, the Attorney-General's Office, the Security Service and other authorities, in order to take action, have brought to justice those who so debasing the land. I would like to address the heads of the Security Service today and in particular. Can't you see what's going on in Sevastopol, what corruption schemes are there? Hunting somewhere separate, separately taken for a little something. Look, millions of bracelets, hundreds of acres of land are leaving. I want to address the First Vice-President of the BSC. Valery Ivanovich, you're an independent man, a new man, confirm your reputation as a decent person, give instructions to check the facts I'm talking about, we'll give you more facts, bring you to justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u159	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u160	This is what all sevastopols are asking for. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u161	Instead of the national deputy Simonenko, Cibenko Petr Stepanović.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u162	The Communist faction, Cibenko. Respectable voters. In October of this year and May of the following year, the peoples of Ukraine and the CIS countries will mark the 65th anniversary of the liberation of Ukraine from German- Fascist invaders and the victory over fascism. These celebrations should be a tribute to those who, in the most bloody world war and on the decisive eastern front, won the victory over the greatest enemy of mankind, who saved the world's civilization, captured our land from the invaders, restored our land to war, and were able to make Soviet Ukraine a country of all importance in the first ten of the world's most developed countries. These are our veterans, our fathers, our grandparents. It is they who owe Ukraine today and the very fact of its existence. We owe them an unpaid debt. It would appear that the current State authority has already taken the necessary steps to celebrate the anniversary. A decree of the Supreme Council, a decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, has been adopted and a decree issued by the President has been issued. But it is surprising why this decree does not mention the anniversary of the liberation of Ukraine from German-Fashistic invaders. It is not because Yushchenko's previous decrees “liberators” have designated nationalists from UN-OPA and for Soviet veterans, true liberators, that the Soviet occupation Museum has been established. What about the destruction of monuments and the burial of heroes of the Great Homeland War in many places, especially in Western Ukraine? How do we understand the ongoing media, official scientific publications, history programmes and textbooks for the cynic falsification of the lives of the older generation of our people? How to assess Ms. Bench, Minister of Culture and Tourism,'s official decree on the audit of libraries by removing unfavourable Soviet literature from the current authorities? Or is it the order of the Deputy Chief of Education and Science of the Kiev Government of Gerasimenko of 24 January this year that the activities of Stepan Bendera, the bloody assistant of the German fascists, should be widely promoted in all Kiev schools in the first half of 2009? Since all the real policies of the current authorities are a flagrant violation not only of human morality but also of international law, the Constitution, the laws of Ukraine, in particular the Law on the Emancipation of Victory in the Great Homeland War of 41-45, please consider this an official appeal to the Attorney-General of Ukraine to bring the perpetrators to justice in accordance with paragraph 9 of the Ukrainian Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u163	Instead of the people's deputy Crook, National Deputy Odarchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u164	Odarchenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear colleagues, the whole country is aware of the extremely difficult situation that has taken place in one of the largest companies in the Herson area, open to the stockholders' company "Herson Combains". This enterprise is recognized as strategic for the economy of Ukraine and is one of the cities of budget-based companies in Herson. The situation in this company did not arise today, as a result of the orderly and systematic operation of the unclean plots after the destruction of the flagman of the country’s agricultural machinery. I won't be able to describe the chronology and mechanism of this process right now, and it's been going on since 1997, and unfortunately, it was only in 2006. The first serious influence of the Detainee Foundation was a letter to the prosecution requesting the prosecution, the President of Ukraine, the head of the Supreme Council, requesting that a criminal case be brought against the facts of the falsification of documents and the illegal alienation of state property. Sadly, though, according to this review, the prosecutor’s office first filed a criminal case, but unfortunately, about a year ago, there was a decision to close it for no crime. In studying the material, it seems that the work of the prosecutor’s office was designed to finally bury the matter. What's the situation at the combine plant right now? all the assets that existed before in this big business are distributed to different commercial structures under peace agreements. I want television and radio to imagine that for 8 million dollars, all the basic funds, all the buildings and buildings of the Herson Combin factory, which were built throughout the Soviet government and the royal regime. And along with that, there's an income debt of 20 million dollars. So not only does the owner not arrange the release of the combines, he moves on, he actually builds systems where he can only benefit from the alienation of the property. But the way out of this situation is, I want to tell the Hersons that yesterday there was a meeting of a special privatisation commission that decided to return to this criminal case, to the Ministry of Economics to consider the activities of Bilodid, the arbitrator who handed over the property to these entities and to contact the Attorney General's Office about the activities of the directorate in paying off the payroll debt. In addition, it follows that the plenary week will be followed by a draft decree establishing a special control commission that will end these schemes at the Hersonian Combustion Plant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u165	Instead of the national deputy of Taran, National Deputy Gnatkevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u166	Dear Ukrainians, it is difficult for many Ukrainians to live today, but, as the Scriptures say, not the only bread will be the whole man, but also the word of God. Perhaps this is why it is often difficult for us to forget God’s word and forget God’s own word. Tomorrow, February 21, the day of the UN’s decision marks the day of the mother tongue. I, on behalf of our faction, the “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko” – and from the “Earth Society” I sincerely welcome all Ukrainians with this holiday. Tomorrow at 5 p.m., the Ukrainian House of Education and the Olexa Mining Foundation "The Ukrainian Children's Word" celebrates the Day of Mother's Language. We invite everyone and wait for guests at 5 p.m. in the Ukrainian House. Sadly, our history is complex and difficult. For a long time, the Ukrainians had no nationality, were in the ranks of other nations, and so the Ukrainian language was demeaned, banned, squeezed out, sneered. In the East and in the Center of Ukraine, almost three and a half centuries had a Russian language, so the Ukrainian language was almost outcast, and millions of Ukrainians had their Ukrainian national spine bent. After the declaration of independence, Ukrainian language has become national, but millions of Ukrainians continue to be ashamed of their language. See, in Kiev, 82.2 percent of Ukrainians live, and 92.3 Ukrainians, more faithfully, all have declared during the census that they speak Ukrainian. But when you listen to the language of the Chinese at work, in public places, in families, it seems that there are almost no Ukrainians in Kiev. Many Chinese do not want to speak English — whether they are afraid or ashamed. And Kiev's bourgeoisie is spending a lot of money on Russian-speaking newspapers: Puls Kiev, Vecercom, Review, Metro. Let us study, gentlemen, and honor all languages, but let us honor our native Ukrainian language. Language is not just a means of communication, it's our national code that we're different from other peoples. Let us finally learn from the Jews. When the nation of Israel was declared, there were only six elders who knew Hebrew, but the Jews declared Hebrew in the national language in Israel, and now all in Israel know and honor it. I would like to finally read a little poem from a book that I published for the members of the Supreme Council called “Participation is not accepted and questions are not raised”. An anti-Surface dictionary, for those who want to speak English well, so that it doesn't look like Verka Cerdukka's language, or Proni Dives. “We are not Ukraine, we are Ukraine. We're not a province, we're a country, We're not Ukrainians, we're Ukrainians, In our country, we are not strangers! We Ukrainians are Ukrainian people. Fate has given us many gifts: A hand of industriousness, a kind of flowering, The tenderness of the soul, the black earth's fertility, The most melodious word in the world, Let's find out about it and respect it, gentlemen!" This verse was written by Valérie Masneuk. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u167	Instead of the national deputy Jegorina and Mironenko Ivan Vasilovich Popescu, six minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u168	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Masterful colleagues! The great electorate! I regret to note once again that the central authorities of the acting authorities, which claim to be pro-European, are in fact continuing to violate the position of the European Charter, regional and mintoliterary languages, and article 23, paragraph 3, of the Constitution on the non-restriction of existing rights and freedoms. I'm going to give you one particular example and I'm going to read a piece of one letter that came from Cherniewec region. At the request of the Romanian population of Bukovina, Olara Olga Evgenyevna, a retired woman, a veteran of work, a widow of a dead war veteran, is addressing you. In 2003, Bukovina was aired on Bukovina’s radio from 3.10 p.m. to 4.00 p.m. for five days a week in Romanian. News, weather forecast, and famine talks were held in Bukovina in 1946. People from our country told us that they were forced to move to Siberia, Kazakhstan, to Lagod, to the Finnish Hall. State festivals were held talks dedicated to the significance of these events. On the phone, greetings were given with birthdays and other important events in people’s lives. Every Wednesday there was a "." broadcast, that in the translation "This is the way we live, the old people." This transmission for the old, lonely, bedridden people was a ray of light in their hard life. Only on the Bukovina radio could we, the old people, tell in our native language about our grief and it often helped us. Listen. The Romanian language was used to help the sick woman, Olga. There were other examples of prosthetics purchased in the region. Only the Bukovina radio helped us to cope with terrible diseases and especially with loneliness. Give us back the "Bukovina" radio, don't let us go to waste, we want to live. My late husband and I worked in a rural Romanian school for 40 years, and we were the ones who, 17 years ago, were aspiring to vote for Ukraine and believed that this authority would be equal to all the nationalities and peoples living in Ukraine. The superintendent. Father Michael Jarr in the past became a hero of Ukraine for raising 155 destitute children. Once upon a time, all nations have lived in peace and communication, and now Romanians have insulted us, left our native language on the radio, thereby violating the rights of national minorities in the Ukrainian independent state. Please help with the retransmission of Romanian to Bukovina in connection with the fact that Bukovina Radio License provides for a hundred percent of the Ukrainian language and please influence our license. What happened, we began to find out at the local level. It turns out that the National Council for Television and Radio was monitoring “Bukovina” radio and it was found that, according to the license, Ukrainian and, in fact, Ukrainian was 94 percent and Romanian was 5.98 percent. And on the basis of article 11 of the Ukrainian National Council Act on Television and Broadcasting, instead of proposing changes to the relevant license, a decision was made on the application of measures to eliminate Romanian. I want to remind you that there are 19.8 Romanians in the Chernobyl area, the vast majority of them in rural areas where the network of wire radio is virtually destroyed, especially after the July flood of 2008. When we took and analyzed how much is still part of the Romanian language. It turns out that, in fact, often in Romanian, the text of the moderator was three or four minutes news. The interactive conversation with the audience was 10-15 minutes, the rest 35-40 minutes -- they were estradic and folk Romanian songs. And this could be qualified as a selection of musical works. The transmission was on the air from 1505 to 1555. Even five minutes less than Mrs. Olara wrote. But the average part of the day, in fact, in Romanian, was 0.5 to 0.7 percent. It was not possible to meet and consider article 22 of the Constitution, paragraph 3, which stated that the scope of existing rights and freedoms could not be narrowed. If this was the case, why did the National Broadcasting Council not decide on the same license for television and radio? And now for a couple of months, it's going to be reduced, and only once a month, once a week, it's going to be this transmission. I ask you to consider my address to the National Council of Ukraine on television and radio talk about the removal of these violations in article 22 of the Constitution. Since the Constitution has a higher legal power, even before the National Council of Television and Radio. And also, bring it in line with the European Charter of Regional and Minority Languages. Since international obligations have a higher legal power over national law in accordance with the Law on International Contracts. If the National Television and Radio Council doesn't know about this, I don't think they belong there. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u169	Instead of the National Deputies Bondar and Klimenko, the Hare Ivan Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u170	John the Rabbit. Ukrainian People’s Party Dear National Deputies! The deep social crisis obliges all of us to act energetically, professionally, patriotically, in all directions. Unfortunately, in recent times there has been a tendency to ignore the decline in attention to many of the very important problems of today. At the same time, there is a verbal rhetoric about the need to overcome the economic crisis in the first place. But there is also no correct view of complex actions. Finally, we need to understand that the financial and economic crisis is the result of a spiritual crisis, a crisis of understanding the realities of today by the authorities. As a representative of the UNP MP group, I want to draw your attention to three important issues that need to be addressed in the first place. First. The Supreme Council should restore justice to the villagers. Today, there is a discriminatory norm for residents who have part of the land. Family members who live in rural areas with even 10 hundred are considered to be self - caregivers. In real life, this means that the villager or the village that lost his job will not be registered in the center of employment and will not receive any help. In order to register such a citizen at the center of employment, he needs to take the help of a local government authority that he is not a member of a private farm. In fact, all residents of the village are considered to be members of agriculture, since even a small plot of land was provided for the maintenance of the OSH, all members of the family are considered to be members of this individual farm. Even though they don't have an official job, the unemployed are still not considered state aid and they don't have a right. This is contrary to the Ukrainian Constitution and is a great injustice against the inhabitants of the village. By this decision, the Cabinet of Ministers crossed out. I'm sorry, this decision is a huge injustice to our villagers. This injustice must be corrected immediately. To solve the problem, the Ukrainian People’s Party’s Group of Deputies, John Zayj, Jaroslav Jodzik, and Yuri Kostenko, submitted a bill that needs to be considered as soon as possible in the next plenary week. The other one. On February 11th, the Cabinet of Ministers postponed for an indefinite period the decision to create a series of national and natural parks, such as the "Buzki GAT" National Park, or the granite-stuppe Pobrzeża, as well as others. With this decision, the Cabinet of Ministers crossed out the 20-year work of many authorities and the public, “spouting” on its previous decisions, the work that was carried out by a number of ministries. What was the motive for the prime minister of Ukraine and the ministers to make such a decision in the interests of the electoral campaign? Otherwise, I don't understand. Officials have not been satisfied with the fact that today's national parks are created by Presidential decrees, they want them to be created by the Cabinet of Ministers. The decision of the Cabinet of Ministers states: to postpone the decision on the settlement of the issues of the creation of the Buziki GAT, the “Granite Steps of Pobžja”, the “Walmed Land” and the “Gettmanski” parks until amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the natural-lawful Fund are made to make decisions from such issues to the powers of the Cabinet of Ministers. This position of government in practice means that the Cabinet of Ministers does not want to act within the framework of current legislation, which does not understand the importance of environmental issues in the government, that the Cabinet of Ministers does not understand the technology of the creation of natural resources. It seems that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has sheltered those who still want to steal the security areas. It is no longer known to government officials that the agreement to create such objects is untimely, that in time they lose legal power. The Ukrainian People's Party refers to Prime Minister Yulia Timoshenko, to the BUT faction, not to commit a sin, and at the next meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers, to decide on the creation of these and a host of other national parks. Third. What should be the ideology for overcoming the economic crisis? We're still told that this should be the ideology of liberalism. We argue that this should be the ideology of conservativeism, national-democratic. This means that we have the basic focus of power and society to focus on building our own, whole, full economy, on building an internal market. And this ideology is unfolding in our "Buy Ukrainian" gas. "Buy Ukrainian," that means, produce Ukrainian, support Ukrainian, save Ukrainian. If you're a citizen and you're a patriot, you have to buy your manufacturer's goods, so you invest money in manufacturing where your relative, your brother or your father may be working. Buy Ukrainian for a businessman means that a businessman has to do everything to keep his employees from being fired. He has to work to make the production quality. It has to work to make the prices for the production of the national manufacturer accessible. Buying Ukrainian for power means that power is the same as buying because it makes government purchases. Therefore, the Cabinet of Ministers is to amend the State Procurement Order and sell goods to its producers. The Cabinet of Ministers, the authorities have to create conditions for entrepreneurial activity free and they have to eventually ensure justice in relation to their citizens. That is why the ideology of the construction of the internal market, its economy can save Ukraine today, and that is the position of the Ukrainian People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u171	Bondarenko Volodymir Dmitrovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u172	Respectable citizens of Ukraine, honourable dignitaries! I would like to pay attention today to the vacchanal that is being done in Kiev today. As soon as I knew that the city of Kiev had apparently left the border of Ukraine and had either gone to medical treatment or to check any accounts there, perhaps in Nigeria at the bank that was created there or to perform any other functions. I would like to make an official request to the Ukrainian Security Service, the Border Service, and the State Service with a request to ask whether Cherniewsky had written a commitment not to disclose the secret, whether he had done so by agreeing with his mission, the President’s Administration and other appropriate services. The point is that, with regard to ministers and some ministers, the Ukrainian Security Service is very quick to arouse criminal or corruption cases without even considering the issue itself, just for statistics. In this case, if it's true that Mayor Kiev left Kiev, it's a question of whether or not it's escaping, because Kiev has a one-and-a-half billion debt of gas, Kiev today has a unique management scheme and so on. There was a press conference yesterday between the heads of the district government that said it was impossible to work under such conditions. The city budget today is divided by these proportions, about 2.5 billion -- all 10 and 12.5 billion -- is a city. What's going on is this concentration of financial resources and management from the city, and because Leonid Mikhailovich is in charge today, and his son is in the tendering business, Stepan, and his daughter-in-law Christina is in the house, and his son-in-law is in the business of moving his grandmother into the house, and his son-in-law is in the land business, and his close relative through his wife is Mr. Chub, he's in the property business. It is not clear that this family corruption in Kiev today needs the active influence of the services involved. Sadly, this does not happen. And it doesn't happen because Leonid Mikhailovich is the cavalry of the Order of Jaroslav the Wise. Well, as some fool is said to be taking something, it's interesting how to describe who's giving these people such rewards. And how can we today judge the President's decree to reward Leonid Mikhailovich of the Red Cross by the Order of Jaroslav the Wise. This is the Red One who made up the taxes on air conditioners right now. Tomorrow they'll take gas and electric plates, peaches, TVs and everything. What I'm saying is that the Kiev budget provides for less than a million dollars for culture, for sports, for 43 million for the city press, which celebrates and makes today's mayor's show round-the-clock. $14 million to repair the city council house. But in the end, we have a limited financial resource today and there's this kind of dispersion, and nobody notices it again. That's why I'm addressing the President of Ukraine, Mr. Baloga, who's criticizing the city's head today -- you're the one who supported him, you put him in this position today.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u173	Shershun Mikola Haritonovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u174	Mikola Shershun “Block Lithuania”. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues. I want to draw your attention to the situation in the Hussetin region of the Ternopil region around the Medobor sanatorium. In order to find information about this treatment facility, there are many web sites where you can read that the Madobora sanatorium is one of the best sanatoriums in Ukraine, which in 2001 won the nomination “The current level of sanatorium services”. In that same year, the Ternopil District Council decided to reorganize the facility into a district public sanatorium. Regrettably, after the restructuring of the structure, the process of gradual collapse of the medical clinics as a medical facility began. The main financial management and the Health Administration did not provide any funding to the sanatorium, nor was financial and economic control provided. Thus, since 2003, the sanatorium has put an end to the work of people who have lost their jobs and have been unable to obtain the necessary treatment and treatment. And in our country, there is another one that no one needs. Each day, more than 440,000 dollars of debt began to accumulate and increase, as of November 1, 2006. Today, the Madobora sanatorium is in a terrible, neglected state, all communications are shut down, the roof is leaking, the floor, furniture and other inventory is becoming unusable, and rainwater flows into rooms that cause buildings to be destroyed. The sanatorium is currently protected by workers on their own initiative. They are over three years old without getting paid, but they still hope that the state will pay attention to the treatment facility and find the opportunity to restore its functioning. As far as their enthusiasm and hope are concerned, no one knows. The best way to address this situation, according to the Ternopolska National Party, is to transfer the district municipal sanatorium “Medobor” to the balance sheet of the Hussetin District Council with further sale of the object to the investor, with a mandatory warning of the ban on changing the professional activity of the sanatorium. This will help to preserve a unique health care facility, save existing ones, and create new jobs. And the money that the District Council will be able to use to develop the infrastructure of the Husatian region is to rebuild and build roads, implement energy-saving technologies, light up the streets. And the main thing is to preserve people's hope that their problems can be heard and can be solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-20-m0.u175	Ladies and gentlemen, I declare this morning's plenary session closed. The next plenary session will begin at 10 a.m. on March 3rd. Good luck.
