ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Please turn on the "Council" system. [[16:01:56]] There are 437 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. I declare the evening plenary session open. A draft regulation on parliamentary hearings is being considered on "Preparation for the 2012 European Championship in Ukraine". The report is the National Deputy of Ukraine Victor Petrovich Korz.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u2	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to say that I am very sorry that I was able to make it to the Supreme Council stand on this issue 11 months after the registration of the Supreme Council's draft decision in March last year. Unfortunately, during this time, the need to hold parliamentary hearings with the Euro-2012 has not only lost its relevance, but, in my view, has become much more relevant. Indeed, Ukraine’s preparations for the final part of the 2012 European Football Championship for more than a year and a half are an integral part of the daily lives of a wide range of professionals, the public and the state as a whole. Instead, the numerous statements regarding the proper preparation of this important forum are, unfortunately, an exaggeration. The number and quantity of goods needed for building and equipping sports facilities is still not defined. Bills have not been considered to amend the laws on taxation and to implement the guarantees given by UEFA by the three governments of Ukraine. There is no draft law on a state-wide target programme to prepare and hold the final part of the European Championship. There have been no changes in existing laws on concessions for the construction and operation of motor vehicles, as well as appropriate mechanisms and features for the joint participation of the State and private investors. Long time ago, the fundamental law of Ukraine on the organization and holding of the final part of the 2012 European Championship. I want to put a stop to the efficiency of the governing bodies. I'm talking about the coordinating council with the President of Ukraine and the government organ committee. Unfortunately, today it can be noted that the vast majority of the decisions of these governing bodies have not been implemented and, in particular, most of the President's tasks have also been carried out. Although the deadlines for these arrangements have almost reached a year. Level of funding.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u3	Everyone, finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u4	Funding for the work is measured by percentages. Dear colleagues, this is all under certain opaque procedures and an increase in government budget expenditure to finance this project in such a crisis. Dear colleagues, in view of the above, I urge you to support the draft ruling with appropriate editorial changes and to vote in favour of holding parliamentary hearings in the first decade of March this year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u5	Thank you, Victor Petrovich, sit down, please. From the Kostenko Committee, Pavel Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u6	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Family, Youth Policy, Sport and Tourism discussed at its meeting on 19 February 2008 a draft regulation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on parliamentary hearings on the theme “Preparing and holding the 2012 European Championship in Ukraine”. On May 21, 2008, Ukraine’s national deputies, Konovaluk, Safiullin, Korž, registered 2132 from March 04, 2008. The purpose of the draft decision is to hold parliamentary hearings to generalise and produce a concerted programme for the preparation and conduct of the 2012 European Football Championship in Ukraine. The Committee fully supports the proposal of the People's Deputies of Konovaluk, Safiullin, Korja for parliamentary hearings and recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine consider the amended draft decision and adopt it as a basis and as a whole. As far as processing is concerned. So it is to exclude from the draft decree paragraphs 3 and 4, which speaks of inviting the President of Ukraine, representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the City of Kiev, Dnipropetrovska, Harkova, Odessa, Donetsk, Lviv and the heads of the relevant district administrations. The committee insists on excluding this item, because in any parliamentary hearing we will also invite all interested persons, as well as paragraph 4, “Parliamentary monitoring of the preparations for the final part of the 2012 European Championship, to secure the European Supreme Council from the Euro-2012 preparations. There is no such rule of law, so we also ask that this paragraph be deleted because the Parliamentary Committee of the Supreme Council has the right to control the 2012 European Championship in Ukraine. And that's how the committee fully supports it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u7	Thank you. Let's sign up for a discussion. People's deputy Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u8	Vladimir Karpuk, faction of "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense", group "For Ukraine!" I believe, like our faction, that parliamentary hearings on the agreed action plan for the final part of the European Championship in 2012. Despite numerous meetings, as in the Cabinet of Ministers with the participation of highly respected persons, we know in cities that there are quite a number of problems that arise there, there in the press. And what two billion is allocated for funding for 2009 is that a number of stadiums are not yet ready for construction, for tourism, for customer service infrastructure, for health care are all problems that are complex, practically not being addressed. There is either one problem or financing or construction. Thus, the bill submitted by the national deputies Konovaluk and Korzh is very timely. And these parliamentary hearings need to be conducted, indeed, by involving the highest in the state in order to regulate both the organisational principles and the financing of the Euro-2012. And that's quite relevant, and the faction will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u9	Thank you. Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u10	Thank you. Martinuk is a faction of Communists. Dear colleagues, there is no doubt that this bill will be supported; we should hold parliamentary hearings. Unfortunately, the effectiveness of parliamentary hearings is not always what we would like, because we know very well what parliamentary hearings are, and especially how parliamentary hearings are being recommended. But let's hope that this topic, which affects the interests of our state, is represented after hearing and accepting appropriate recommendations, I hope that the executive branch of power will do so. I'd like to emphasize, my fellow Members, and I'd like your attention, because we can now vote on something that we shouldn't vote on. I'd like to hear a report from the head of the profile committee. It's no coincidence that we're now considering two drafts of a decision: a project that was reported on behalf of the initiators by Victor Petrovich Korz and a project that was reported by the head of the profiling committee. I understand that, given the position of the initiator deputies, I have made the right proposals. So this is the same decision. But please see, in resolution 2132, there is a fourth point that says that parliamentary control of the preparations for the final part of the 2012 European Championship is carrying out the mandated Supreme Council of Ukraine preparations for Euro-2012, which is chosen from the national deputies of Ukraine. There is no such authority in the Constitution for the holding of the Euro. That's the first one. And secondly, the draft decree on parliamentary hearings and the election of an authorized person will not be binding. So I urge everyone to vote in favour of the draft decision without this fourth paragraph, which is presented in the proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u11	Thank you. The discussion is over. Please be one of the authors of the draft decision, Victor Petrovich Korge. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u12	Dear colleagues, I agree with the comments made by Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk. We've taken this into account, there's a joint co-worked solution with the committee. Of course, this was about the first version given in March. Thus, the final version takes these comments into account mainly. And I would like to support the position of the authors of the draft ruling and the Committee of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u13	Thank you. So we have one draft decision to make. Please turn on the microphone to National Deputy Kostenek Pavel Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u14	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, I'd like another rebar. On March 11, the Supreme Council Secretariat agreed on this date. If possible, the bill will be included on March 11th. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u15	Thank you. Actually, I've noticed that the only day we have is March 11th. Thus, by summarizing the discussion, one draft of Decree 2132-D is proposed for adoption with a change of date in the first paragraph, instead of setting the date on 1 May 2008 on 11 March 2009. The committee proposes the adoption of the draft regulation as a basis and as a whole. Is there no objection? I'm betting on the draft regulation 2132-D. I'd like to make up my mind. [[16:14:03]] For 395 Decision taken. A bill is being considered to mark the 65th anniversary of Victory in the Great Homeland War and the liberation of Ukraine from the fascist invaders, number 3415. According to Peter Stepanovich Zibenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u16	The Communist faction, the first deputy head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, in 2009-2010, Ukrainian citizens, countries of the Commonwealth of Independent States, the world society celebrates a series of Jubilee dates associated with the Great Homeland War, and as a final result, the 65th anniversary of the great victory over fascism. Now there's an estaph of memory on the 65th anniversary of the liberation of regions from fascism. For me, as a citizen, as a deputy, the communist is two equivalent and equivocal dates among these events: the 65th anniversary of the liberation of Ukraine from the fascist invaders and the 65th anniversary of the great victory over fascism. I had hoped that these two age - old dates and the president of Ukraine, Victor Yushchenko, were the same. But the head of state, apparently, has taken on other matters, such as joining NATO, arming his Caucasian friend Saakashvili, heroizing UN-UPA, fighting all the enemies, issuing a decree on the 65th anniversary of the great victory over fascism, but has forgotten the same anniversary of the liberation of Ukraine from fascism. I'm not kidding. Indeed, the President’s decree does not even mention this event. So I think that this decision is appropriate in terms of the restoration of justice and the restoration of the assessment of this event, and secondly, it complements the President's decree to some extent. I would like to take this opportunity to thank those district councils that, without waiting for the President's decree or the Supreme Council's ruling, made appropriate district-wide decisions in an initiative. In particular, I would like to thank Kharkiv District Council and Deputy Communist Kotlarevski Oleksija Ivanovich, who initiated the adoption of this document. I am absolutely convinced that this document does not cause any complaints and that it must be accepted and given to those people whom we owe for what they have done in their lives.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u17	Yavrovsky Vladimir Alexandrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u18	Vladimir Yavorowski, head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality of the Supreme Council Dear Society, the political biography of this document is very simple. The first question you might raise is, in December, we took a decision with you here and adopted it to mark the memorable dates in this year, 2009. The question is, why wasn't this document on this general list? So I'm explaining that we accepted the document for 2009. And in 2010, we were ready to adopt the same bill on the general list, but this is the right of the national deputy of Cibenka to submit this bill and the Committee on Culture and Spirituality will fully support it by a hundred percent. Because this is a sacred date, the veterans have literally one left, and the committee unanimously supports this document. Although I'm saying it could be accepted on the general list. But let's be early, there'll be an opportunity in the Cabinet of Ministers to prepare normally. I'm the only one with, well, I can't apply for basic justice, I'm not the President's satellite, you know that, Mr. Zibenko. We don't forget that the liberation of Ukraine is the 44th year, and victory is the 45th year. That's why I wouldn't blame the President here for forgetting, Mr. Peter. I don't think you're right, it's totally different this year, but this year it would have to be, and this year it would have to be accepted, it's true. Because of this committee's request to the National Deputies, I don't think you need to be asked, and no one will miss a hand to vote for this bill by Zybenko. Although, once again, there are orders from the President. That's why I think there's an option here where you don't spoil the mess with butter. Let's say the President's decree, this document that Cibenko filed, he may be too pedantic to write there, because it's actually the Cabinet of Ministers' job. The main thing is to create a working group, a working commission at the mark.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u19	Finish up, Volodymyr Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u20	make sure that the money is appropriate and that the anniversary is held at the proper level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u21	Let's sign up for a discussion. People's MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u22	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! You don't have to talk for long. The point is that the Committee on Culture and Spirituality considered this proposal. It was then presented on behalf of Leonid Ivanovich Player. We looked at it and put it on the general list of measures to be taken in 2009. And I don't have to prove why this marking is necessary. Because the majority of those present in the hall have a bearing on the tragic events that the nation has experienced. Ukraine has placed an incredible number of millions of people on the altar of Victory. And that's after the year 33, when the famines passed, when there was a defiance in Soviet power, when everyone felt that they had to defend their land and defend Ukraine. And that's why I don't think it's necessary now to advertise each other, and you just have to celebrate it as it should be, this date for the Ukrainian nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u23	Verni Dubov Ivan Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u24	Dear colleagues! As the author of the decree, the draft decree to mark the 65th anniversary of the great Victory in the Great Homeland War, Deputy Cibenko, is also very grateful to the people who created this Victory and gave us the opportunity to live and create in our own country. So the faction of the Party of the Regions is voting in favour of this decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u25	Samolica Katerina Seminovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u26	Thank you very much. Why did I sign up for it? Because there's been a lot of, you know, attempts to say that everything is already included in the President's decree. I don't know what's included, unless every safe house has to be a memorial. That's true. So I think we're looking at the exact right question of celebrating the 65th anniversary of the Great Victory. Like any normal person who has a memory of honor and who remembers and respects his history, we certainly vote for it. Moreover, it seems to me that at the level of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine there is a need to extend significantly the measures that should be taken in the regions of our country. I think it should also be moral incentives for the veterans of the Great Homeland War, for the soldiers' widows, for those children who lost their parents during the Great Homeland War, without even knowing motherly and parental favor. And so the faction, once again, supports the bill. Moreover, we will contribute to the best possible implementation not only by parliamentary action but also by party action. And it's just immoral for the president to give orders, because today, unfortunately, he's made a hero of the criminals, of those who betrayed and sold both the people of Ukraine and Ukraine. And he gives them more honor and honor than he does to those who really protected our nation. We support this bill and thank our colleague for the initiative he has taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u27	The discussion is over. I am voting on the proposal of a committee on acceptance as a basis and as a whole in the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the 60th anniversary of Ukraine's liberation from the fascist invaders and victory in the Great War of the country, No 3415. I'd like to make a statement. [[16:23:51]] For 382 Decision taken. A draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine is under consideration in connection with the adoption of the Code of Administrative Justice. Reported by Justice Minister Onichuk Mikola Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u28	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! As you know, since 2005, the Code of Administrative Judiciality, the Transitional Statutes of which both the government and the Parliament have been obliged to bring the current legislation of Ukraine into line with the Code of Administrative Justice. Twice in the Ukrainian Parliament, the relevant bills were introduced, both in the fourth and fifth convocations, but never in the light of the time-consuming suspension of Parliament's powers, this technical, in fact, law, but significant, was not approved. Today, your opinion is proposed by a law called 18 regulations, 18 laws in accordance with the Code of Administrative Justice, which has already become a legal reality, which is being applied and we have to remove the contradictions that arise today. That's exactly what the government's bill is about, and that's what I'm about to report on. In particular, for example, I can call those positions that have to be brought into line. You know that many laws have so far used the concept of “administrative action” when the Code of Administrative Justice operates on the concept of “administrative action”. Individual laws: election of national deputies, election of local self-government bodies, election of the President, contain their separate procedures for dealing with disputes arising out of the electoral process. Instead, I must point out that the Code of Administrative Judiciality contains a whole section that provides for the order of consideration of the relevant disputes arising out of the electoral process. The scientific and expert board and the parliamentary committee, and actually this is an obvious recommendation and it will be said to adopt this law on a basis. I have hope, and there is reason to approve it as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u29	Thank you, Mikola Vasilovich. The committee reports to Julia Volodymyrna Novikova.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u30	At a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of justice, a bill has been considered for the purpose of implementing Ukrainian laws on freedom of conscience and religious organization, on the prosecution, on the status of war veterans and on guarantees of their social protection, on judicial expertise, on the state and material reserve, on State support for media and social protection of journalists, on enforcement, on public secrecy, on State social assistance for low-income families, on political parties in Ukraine, on refugees, on income taxes for natural persons, on the provision of creditor requirements and on the registration of burdens, on the protection of social morality, on the election of the President of Ukraine, on the election of national deputies, on the provision of equal rights and opportunities for women and men, in accordance with the Code of Administrative Justice. The sole purpose of this law is to harmonize the provisions of the above - mentioned laws with the Code of Administrative Justice of Ukraine. The project was approved by the Supreme Court, the Supreme Administrative Court, the Attorney-General's Office, the Supreme Council Committees on European Integration, Budget, Legal Policy, Freedom of Word and Information, State Building and Local Self-Government as such, which will allow for the elimination of inconsistencies and differences in the provisions of Ukraine's laws, taking into account the comments and proposals made. There's a positive conclusion from the Chief Research Administration. However, the Justice Committee found some inconsistencies and imperfections in this law. That is why the committee proposes to adopt this law in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u31	Thank you, Julia Volodymyrna. Let's sign up for a discussion. There is no desire to share in the discussion. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in the first reading of the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of the Code of Administrative Justice of Ukraine, No. 2213, please specify. [[16:29:25]] For 368 Decision taken. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is under consideration. [[on documents certifying ownership of land as well as the division and consolidation of land]] Reported by the Ukrainian national deputy, Matvienko Anatoly Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u32	Anatoly Matvienko, Srp "The Council", faction "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense". Dear colleagues, a group of people's deputies, me, Bebazenk, Bondar, Vasilyev, a bill has been introduced to amend the Ukrainian Code of Land. These changes include the introduction of three articles: 126 articles; this is a new edition; and the introduction of two other articles is 186. 1 and 57 Prime 1. The bill provides for a regulation: 1) this, which confirms ownership of the land and this provides for 126 articles, since today's edition of this article tells us that for any movement of the land, ownership of the land is to be made by a state act. This is understandable when acquisition takes place from municipal or state property. But when acquisition is acquired from private property, it's obvious that a government act to produce new ones is not necessary. This is a very serious procedure. It happens that the land is owned by another owner, and a year it cannot be used because it cannot form a government act at the right time. And it's a fiber that is now an anti-crisis norm, because it's going to make it more dynamic today to develop the entrepreneurial activities of our citizens. In another article, in article 86, prima 1 and 57.1 refer to the arrangement of such a procedure as land division and land unification. Article 186 prime 1 states that the order of division or the United of Lands is clear, and article 57.1 clearly states what technical documentation is needed to acquire such property and makes it clear that nothing, except that is listed in this article, is required by our authorities that register ownership. Clearly, this is a question that needs to be addressed in its complex way.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u33	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u34	The register, but it's already the rules of another law and, I think, by the second reading, it should have been taken into account. And secondly, I would ask you, Mr. Chairman, perhaps taking into account the urgent need to adopt this law to consider the simplified procedure for preparing this law for second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u35	Have a seat, please. The committee reports to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Bebazenko Valeriy Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u36	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The bill is intended to limit the scope of the application of the State Act as a legal instrument to an area of land solely by the acquisition of it from state and municipal property and by the change of destination, as well as by the certification of the right to land formed by the consequences of division and unification. This change brings land traffic closer to the way other immovable property is traded according to the Ukrainian Civil Code. The bill in question deserves support for the following reasons. In the country, especially in the Kyiv region, there are unique facts where several State acts have been issued and registered for one land. That is, the current edition of article 126 of the Earth Code does not guarantee the protection of the constitutional rights of citizens and legal persons on earth, and it needs to be amended accordingly. The new edition of article 126 of the Earth Code will enable citizens to make real use of their ownership of the land, to reduce the cost of producing State acts on land, and to reduce the deadlines considerably. The cost of producing technical documentation that confirms the right to land is considerable. And the right time depends, not on the amount of work done, but on the location of the land and the ability to pay. The main scientific and expert office is proposing to adopt this bill as a basis. In view of the above, the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u37	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Let's sign up for a discussion. Yavrovsky Vladimir Alexandrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u38	Vladimir Yavorowski, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, 95th constituency of Kirovograd. The “Julia Tymoshenko Block” will definitely support this bill. In fact, it does not change any basic principles of the existing law. It allows you simply to accelerate the processing of these documents. The "Julia Tymoshenko Block" will support, and my time will be passed on to Oleg Lazko. He's asking a lot, and I just can't say no.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u39	Oleg Laszko “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, my dear colleagues, I very much ask you to say that this bill is actually an extremely serious bill that, if adopted by us, will strike as seriously as possible against the mafia. True, Mr. Bewzenko said that today, in order to form land records, it takes six months to get an act, to walk, to produce this documentation, and to pay every step of the way. The bill that we're considering with you right now, and we're hoping that the Supreme Council will adopt it, will remove all these corrupt links. He will allow people who acquire land to stop walking, not to pay bribes to produce documentation, to obtain new government acts. So I think we need to support it, and this will remove the preconditions for corruption in the land. And I support Matvienka's proposal, and I ask, Mr. Chairman, to make a proposal to prepare this bill for second reading, as the land mafia is not sleeping. She hears us discussing this bill with you. And I think after today they're going to raise prices ten times for their corrupt services, realizing that their time is coming to an end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u40	Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u41	Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, Party of Regions Honorary colleagues are no doubt counting the state’s legitimate tortures against their own people, the procedure for forming ownership of a small land or their property is one of the first places. And right here, the Ukrainian national MPs said that the queues haven't been moving for months. That's not the point. Corruption that thrives, and it was an accident to talk about the Kyiv region, and it has its own food environment, this very fiber and gravity. But I would like to draw your attention to another situation, that is, the other aspect. Sooner or later, we are a land tax, sooner or later a real estate tax, especially a luxury tax, will be introduced. Sooner or later, we will have to apply methods to administer such a tax. Without clearly defined documents of ownership, such a tax would simply not be possible. I only have one warning. Would it not be possible that the right to use the land would be certified not only by a state act but also by civil law agreements. Therefore, our authors, the initiators of this bill, need a clear and clear reading before the second reading, in order not to allow the double interpretation of this legislative act to be written, which, according to further requirements of the Earth Code, looks and should be the procedure for the person who has received the land or the building or the building or the building of the house, to try to legalize it somehow through the BTI. Because, once again, the situation is threatening. Come on, somebody, drive right to any district center, see how people are doing four o'clock in the morning.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u42	Matthew Vladimir Josephovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u43	In general, it is very difficult for me to refer to the land mafia because I have nothing to do with the land and have never done anything about it. But I owe you one. This mess, which we have formed in the State using land, arable land, agricultural land, is precisely because we destroyed the collective use of the land and transferred it to private use. That's the side of the case. Second. By enacting this law, we are demeaning the State in general, totally humiliating the State, because we are abolishing the primacy of the State in the distribution of public property. I'll just tell you from my practice. The most terrible disputes are land disputes. By enacting this law, we will bring land disputes into an unsolvable state. If we have a State act of land use, it is the main document that must be used constantly. If we don't have this state-of-the-art land use act, I don't know what we can do when they try to defend their rights. I'll tell you that land disputes will only grow and lead to fratricidal war.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u44	The discussion is over. Let's move on to making a decision. I am voting on the adoption in the first reading of the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine No. 2606. I'd like to make a statement. [[16:41:02]] For 388 Decision taken. Proposals were made to shorten the deadline for preparation for second reading. I'm voting on shortening the deadline for preparing the draft law for second reading. I'd like to make up my mind. [[16:41:30.]] For 369 Decision taken. The draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Congregation for the Development of Graduation, Gardening and Shrines is under consideration, No. 3152. Grigory Eudkovich Smythuch reports. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u45	Ladies and gentlemen, your consideration is subject to Bill No. 3152 on the amendment to the current Ukrainian Law on the Assembly for the Development of Graduation, Gardening and Shrimping. This law was supported by a committee that considered it last year. The need to adopt this bill is based on the following facts. Since Ukraine’s independence, the number of land areas that produce many years of fruit and berries has continued to decline at catastrophic rates. This leads to a decrease in the productivity of domestic producers and causes a sharp rise in prices, including an increase in imports from exports. I'll just give you some numbers. In 2008, the area of vineyards in Ukraine now stands at 159 thousand hectares -- twice as many as in the early 1990s. The area of fertile plants in Ukraine declined fourfold, from 440,000 acres [445,000 ha] in 1990 to 100,000 acres [100,000 ha] in 2008. This trend has led to a significant weakening of our nation’s food security, a negative impact on the well - being and health of the population. Both strategic export and import rates for berries and fruit are negative. Yes, in 2007, exports of grapes amount to 127 tons, think about it. At the same time, imports of this product amounted to 8,000,500 tons. Fruit exports amount to 76,000 tons from Ukraine and imports of more than one million tons. It's a statistic, it's a reflection of today's state of the country's producer. Therefore, considering the problem as part of Ukraine’s food security is the need for the operation of the law that is in force today in Ukraine. The basics of the bill, the law goes from December 31st to December 31st, 2004, 14th.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u46	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u47	increase in sales of alcoholic beverages from one percent to 1.5 percent. In all, we continue to act that has a positive impact on the development of this sector and increase by half a percentage of the sales of alcoholic beverages. Moreover, this will allow for a significant increase in the landing of these long - term plantations. I'd like you, National MPs, to support this bill as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u48	Thank you, Gregory Yudkomovich. Let's sign up for a discussion. National MP Koleznichenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u49	Dear colleagues, the bill proposed to us by my faction colleague, Mr. Smith, is very important economic and political for our State. [[Deputy Kolezničenko, faction Party regions]] We won't be grain soon, we won't be producing sugar soon. And today you are surprised to recall how the best fruits of grapes, orchards and hops were produced right here in the territory of our State. The intensification of production, the loss of control over agricultural development, has led to the horrendous figures that Deputy Smythew has brought from this rostrum. This is in the same context as what happened last year, when Ukraine, the country for which fat is a national product, imported tens of thousands of tons of Polish halls to destroy its own producer. It is therefore very important today not only to ensure conservation but also support and economic growth for both winemaking and horticulture. This is particularly important for the south-east of Ukraine, where the wine industry is now threatened by the import of a large number of imported wine products. And many years of planting, of course, do not bring money today or bring money tomorrow. However, that perspective is very long-term and very important. These are also jobs, this is the status of our State, this is our perspective. I therefore call on colleagues to support this bill, which will not only preserve but also seriously develop gardening, grapes and hops. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u50	Deputy Matthew Vladimir Josephovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u51	Thank you. Please pass the word to Perestenko Marina, a faction of the Company of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u52	Persevere, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues! In recent years, in support of the state, this is the same percentage that has been counted, the farmers have invested a great deal of money in planting new vineyards. Areas for new vineyards in individual vineyard farms have grown 2-3 times, accounting for more than 17,000 hectares in Ukraine as a whole. But the new plantations will only produce the first crop three or five years after the landing. As of today, the annual investment in one hectare of vineyards is about $5,000. In the last year alone, nearly 600 million dollars have been allocated by the state to plant new vineyards in the form of this one - percent congregation, and about 30 million dollars have been spent on internal innovations that have undergone technical remodelling. To grow new vineyards, which will produce their first crop only three years later, domestic producers are already investing at least 70 million dollars a year. If we do. And we lose the lack of funding for this sector, we can wait for the rapid increase in unemployment among the rural population, because grapes need the largest number of employees actually employed throughout the year. Today, more than one million people are working in the field. If not supported, there may be social tension in the southern regions, such as Odessa, Mikolai, Herson, and Crimea. The bankruptcy of tens of primary wine industry enterprises that are budgeting in their regions, that's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u53	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u54	So I think that if we don't want to lose our grapes and gardening forever, we need to support it with both hands.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u55	People's deputy Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u56	Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. The Yulia Timoshenko faction proposes to send a 3152 bill to read again, to work with the committee or the authors, because, first of all, we think it's inappropriate to increase the congregation's rate to 1.5 percent in the context of a financial crisis, when we take laws with one hand, where automobiles, other sectors, instead, do tax benefits, here we increase the congregation. And the main question is, how did you use the money that was going to be used? Has this greatly helped our vineyarding? Every year the lobbyists cry here in the Supreme Council, they tell us, give us this one percent congregation, and we'll make you the best wines in the world, and then the period of law ends, and there's no wine, and you won't find the money that they're collecting and where they're going, you don't know. So we need to work on it. It's not just the mafia, it's people who are stealing money and using it for their own good. That's worse than the Mafia. Therefore, this law needs to be further developed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u57	National deputy, Zebrovsky. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u58	Respectful colleagues, whatever they may call lobbyism, depend on the position of the seat, depending on the viewpoint. Because of this, lobbyism can be called anything. I'm sure this law is necessary. I'll give you an example. In Zitomirsk, where northern areas do not have jobs for today, hops are actually being revived. And in large numbers, such a grant is essential, where jobs are not just forests and hopers at all, and the land does not give birth. And in fact, I would like to give an example of this day that Zitomirsk gave more than 700 tons of hops this year. This is happening today, and if we cut it under the root, we can certainly lose this field of production in Ukraine. However, I certainly talked to some authors, and with the same Tereschuk, and with the same Sigal, they agree to leave, to continue the law, to leave the congregation at the same percentage. I think if the authors agree, there's nothing to work on. This law has already been in force and is now in force. As a result, I am convinced that only a stenographer should vote for him, taking into account one percent of the congregation. In this way this law is essential for the economy, for the hops, for the gardening and for the farming. And I urge all the deputies with this amendment to vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u59	The discussion is over, the final word for the authors of the project, and I see that there is a desire for both the national MP, Smytheuch, and the national deputy, Sigal. Which one of you closes the door? National MP Sigal, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u60	Dear colleagues! If you go to Crimea in summer, you buy peaches from Turkey, grapes from Turkey, black from Italy, our own nothing. All of Ukraine, all of our people eat only imported fruits and fruits. I very much ask, at least one percent, not one and a half, one, I very much ask that this law now be voted on in the first reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u61	Dear colleagues! I put to the vote, I put to the vote a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on a Congregation for the Development of Grapes, Gardening and Shrimpage, on the basis of the first reading, please identify yourself. [[Number 3152]] [[16:53:48]] For 252 Decision taken. During the discussion, a proposal was made to make a change to part three, where the words “one percent” should be left instead of “one-half” and accepted as a whole. Is there a denial of national MPs? There's a denial, isn't there? There is a denial of the people's deputies, so the bills are adopted in the first reading. I ask the profile committee to prepare him for the second reading. There is a suggestion that the preparation should be reduced according to the rules of the Rules. I'm voting on a proposal to shorten the deadline for preparing the bill for second reading. I'd like to make a statement. [[16:54:55]] For 238. Decision taken. I'm asking a committee of profile, in accordance with the Supreme Council's decision, to double the deadline for preparing for the second reading of the draft law. A draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of Human Beings against Ionizing Radiation is under consideration. [[No. 1347]] The report is by Vladimir Petrovich Skoubenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u62	Dear National Deputies! We present to you the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of Human Beings from Ionising Radiation. In line with the Supreme Council’s project, it is mandated to define the basics of public policy in the field of human protection against ionizing radiation, the legal basis for regulating human relationships against ionizing radiation, the approval of the basic dose limit for the individual radiation of the population and the personnel of the objects on which practical activities are carried out. Setting the interference level in case of a radiation accident. Setting the limits and legal regime of the radioactive pollution area, etc. I will remind you that in 2008, we passed a law on the publication of information on radioactive pollution zones, we all voted in favour of it, and since the first of January 2009, the Cabinet of Ministers has been obliged to inform not only those areas affected by Chernobyl, but all areas of Ukraine about all pollution situations, radioactive pollution in the territory of the areas. And once this information has been published, you understand that there is a very large amount of work going on to pay allowances, benefits, benefits not only to residents in the Chernobyl area, but also to the residents of Donbass, Dnepropetrova, Western Ukraine. That we haven't been settled by law. In addition, the Supreme Council of Ukraine and only the Supreme Council of Ukraine are granted the right to approve the provisions of the Commission, the National Commission for Radiation Protection of the Population and the approval of its personnel. The Commission had been established in 1999 and had not reviewed its situation or its composition in ten years. In the course of ten years, there have been no temporary factors within the Commission, so it is necessary to regulate the mechanism for ensuring the work of such a commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u63	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u64	Commissions exist in all countries where nuclear power is exploited, and I therefore propose, I call upon all deputies from all factions, the drafters of the bill are deputies from the Bloka Litvina faction, the Glazunov Party of Regions, Shershun Party of Our Ukraine, Zajac Deputy of Our Ukraine and I from BUTT therefore ask everyone to support this law in a friendly manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u65	Thank you, sit down, please. Let's sign up for a discussion. There is no part of the discussion for those who wish to make the presentations. I am voting on the adoption in the first reading of the Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Protection of Human Beings against Ionising Radiation, No. 1347. I'd like to make up my mind. [[16:58:51]] For 369 Decision taken. The Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Electricity, No. 1371, is under consideration. [[on the settlement of electricity export issues]] According to Mikola Volodymyrovich Martinenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u66	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! Dear National Deputies! The bill under consideration proposes to settle the issue that today is the white spot in our energy legislation. This is a question of electricity exports. Today, electricity exports are regulated by the Foreign Economics Act. Unfortunately, the Electricity Act does not settle this issue. What things are laid down in this law. First. The following changes are being made, such as identifying energy suppliers who have been licensed to supply electricity in such a way as to export electricity. Next. It is determined that electricity for export should be purchased at a price not lower than the wholesale price produced in the electricity market. There is an order of access to the main and interstate power lines through the auction. Next. NCRE is responsible for the approval of the terms of the relevant export agreements between the operators planning to do so, as well as for the order of publication of information on the availability of available power lines for interstate power lines. According to the European Integration Committee, the bill does not conflict with European Union law. The bill was considered extremely relevant by the Professional Committee and was unanimously supported. The Chief Science and Export Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine also believes that the first reading of the bill can be adopted as a basis. In view of the above, please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u67	Thank you, Mikola Volodymyrovich. Have a seat, please. Let's sign up for a discussion. Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u68	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished fellow national MPs! I would like to stress the importance of this bill, despite the limited scope. And the key thing is that this change in the law will give you the opportunity to sell electricity that is actually in Ukraine, let's say, in the rest, to sell in competitive terms. Why did I take the floor? Because that is not the case in Ukraine. There is one Ukriinterenergo corporation that sells Ukrainian electricity at prices lower than in Europe several times. I want to give you these numbers. Until the dollar rise in October-November this year, at an internal price of 6.9 cents per kilowatt, electricity was exported from Ukraine at prices of 2.9 to 4.8 cents. This is because the average electricity price in Europe is between 20 and 25 cents. The question is, where is this difference? And this difference is clear that it's not in the state budget. Why? Because there's a monopoly. Because there is no competition and there is no competition. Moreover, there is a rather interesting question that the Ukrainian consumer pays more for electricity today than we do for electricity than this company sells abroad. For example, Moldova and Belarus buy it cheaper in Ukraine than the third - cent Ukrainian consumer. Slovakia and Russia – 2.1 cents, Hungary – 2.2 cents. Moreover, there are absurd instances where, in times of lack of energy in the internal market, the state is forced to buy electricity from the same partners, but at much higher prices. The question is that this is no longer just a matter of the Supreme Council but also of the law enforcement agencies. And that's why what's proposed by Nicholas Martinenko is absolutely right and right in the legislative plan. We will.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u69	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u70	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. So we're going to vote for it and we're going to propose that everyone vote for it. These are not transparent schemes. They must be removed.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u71	Thank you. The discussion is over. I am voting on the adoption of the draft Law amending the Law on Electricity in the first reading. [[No. 1371]] I'd like to make a statement. [[17:04:29]] For 385 From the procedure? What happened? Please sign off on the procedure. People's deputies have claims about the procedure. People's deputy to Popescu, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u72	Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. You don't have to turn the work of the Supreme Council into a mess. If the absolute majority has been voted on, we must stop and move on to other bills. So I suggest we stop discussing this procedure and move on to the following bill. What's more, I want to remind you that there's someone today, they're celebrating the New Year's Eve, and someone wants to go and welcome their voters. And then they start doing crazy things here.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u73	National Deputy Stishenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u74	Please let Vladimir Alexandrovich pass on the word to Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u75	The national deputy Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u76	The national deputy Yavorowski. I feel for Mr. Popescu, of course, that he is in such a hurry for the New Year. But it's my right, and no one can take it from me. I really want to, today I call the Zarubin killing facts, which many of us, of course, knew before that. Because of this, when I adopt this bill on my first reading today, I propose a protocol commission. Or let Zarubinsky, for example, go to the Attorney General’s Office on Friday so that we don’t forget just this episode about the fact that it was sold criminally at such low prices, yes, electricity was sold at such low prices, and we are solving the problems of our energy independence today. Because of this, I think this is something that needs to be done. Either from the Supreme Council, or I ask my colleague Zarubinsky for Friday just to make this request to the Attorney General’s Office on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u77	People's MP Mokchan.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u78	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. I support Vladimir Alexandrovich's proposal. The fact is that not one fact was cited. He said that there's a whole bunch of energy systems that sell our electricity abroad, and then they take advantage of it, and they sell governments inside at other prices. These facts are not only confirmed, they have room, and today it is not that when they were finished yesterday, they have place today. That's why, no doubt, the whole group that's been working on this bill needs to pay attention to it and remove all the possible distractions that are happening today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u79	People's deputy Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u80	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. The questions raised by counterpart Zarubinski and continued by Vladimir Alexandrovich Yavorowski are extremely relevant. We discussed the gas supply issue with you this morning. That's the same thing as gas, electricity. At first, 75 percent buy an oblenerge in Ukraine, then don't give heat to the citizens, and here from the Supreme Council's rostrum, they say the government is guilty of not being warm. It's the same for electricity. First sold out, the money in the pocket, and now it's told that the government is guilty of everything. I mean, I think it should be a subject of our careful monitoring and investigation of law enforcement. If, of course, we wait for such a study, because there is no secret that the Attorney General of Ukraine is the godfather of one of the leaders of the opposition or the first leader of our opposition. Therefore, it seems futile to expect a fair investigation from the Attorney General’s Office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u81	People's deputy Kamchatny.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u82	Dear colleagues, the question is, indeed, extremely relevant. I want to support those who spoke before this. And I propose to vote in favour of this bill, to move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u83	You didn't notice that we already voted. Replica of the Zarubinsky People’s Deputy
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u84	On the contrary, thank you for not taking offense. Here I was referred to by my last name several times and was told that I should be asked. I've already done that, my dear colleagues. I also have a request to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, obviously, that would be the procurator's point of view, where, I don't mean to say, it's exposed, because it's already a matter of law enforcement, but it's a fact that the price of selling abroad electricity and using our Ukrainian citizens is not appropriate. And in my question, I asked the appropriate authorities to learn what's going on with the export of Ukrainian electricity. Therefore, you are already honored, Vladimir Alexanderovich Yavorowski, who has made your wish come true. And as far as I know, right now the answer is on the way to the Supreme Council. Obviously, you will be able to get acquainted with this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u85	A replica of the Popescu People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u86	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. We fully support what Zarubinsky's colleague spoke out of the rostrum, what he has just said. And that's what I'm paying attention to. He should have compassion for the Ukrainian people for the situation in which the government has led them, and for the government that does all this. So when you talk about it, think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u87	No suggestions are made on procedural matters. A draft Act on the list of documents of a permissive nature in the field of economic activity is being announced for consideration. [[No. 3224]] Reported by the Ukrainian National Deputy, Royal Natalia Yuriyovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u88	Respectable voters, respectable colleagues, respectable Alexander Vladimirović! Bill 3224 is proposed for your attention: a list of permit documents in the field of business. The main purpose of the bill is to define and adopt a list of permit documents at the legislative level. Dear colleagues, you are well aware that today it is easier for an entrepreneur to build a factory, organize production, create jobs before obtaining permits. And our permit system, unfortunately, has already become a ban, because officials are inventing all the new and new necessary permits, which are often designed and completely useless. Ukrainian legislation clearly states that the need to obtain permits should be determined solely by law. On that basis, we need to legislate a list of permit documents. With the entry into force of Bill 3224, the executive authorities, local governments, other entities authorized to issue permits will not be able to require economic operators to do those documents that will not be provided for by this Act. All new permits will have to be approved only by the introduction of the bill. The list of permits includes documents that are economically sound and appropriate. The reasonable requirements of the permit system are also included in the list that 167 documents have already been reduced by more than 40 documents. And we hope that, before second reading, we will further reduce the list of permits. The positive result of the adoption of the bill is, firstly, a definition of reducing the total number of permits, a reduction in the cost and time of entrepreneurs to obtain information on permitting documents, a prevention of abuse by the parties.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u89	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u90	This is kind of a stop to corrupt the actions of officials of the licensing system. The challenge today, during the global financial crisis, is to remove the barriers that have been built over many years between business and business. This bill will help us to create a normal enabling environment for the establishment and operation of entrepreneurship. The bill was supported by the Chief Scientific Expert Office, the State Committee on Regulatory Policy and Enterprise, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Industrial, Regulatory Policy and Enterprise. Please vote on the bill and support Ukrainian entrepreneurs. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u91	Please sit down, Natalie Yuriovn. From the committee Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u92	Honourable Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies, the draft Law on the List of Permitted Documents in the Field of Economic Activities has been developed with a view to the practical implementation of the Ukrainian law on the free system of economic activity, which regulates the relations that arise between the authorities, administrators, and operators in connection with the issuance of documents of a permissive nature. In view of the above, and in line with the rules laid down in the law that the need to obtain a permit document is determined solely by law, it is necessary to establish a list of documents of a permissive nature which give rise to the right to conduct certain activities concerning the conduct of economic activity and to establish it at the legislative level. By taking into account the validity of the draft law, executive authorities, local authorities, their officials, and their businesses, institutions, organizations authorized under the law to issue documents of a permissive nature will have no legal basis for requiring the holders to obtain documents of a permissive nature, the necessity of which is not provided for by law and which are not included in the list approved by this law. The bill approves the list of documents of a permissive nature that give rise to the right to conduct certain activities relating to the pursuit of economic activity and identifies objects for which documents of a permissive nature are issued. The draft decrees, establishing the conditions under which it is prohibited to require operators to obtain documents of a permissive nature that are not required by law and that are not listed. In addition, with the aim of avoiding legal commissions in the future, the bill contains a rule that changes to the list of documents of a permissive nature are made at the same time as amendments to the Ukrainian Laws governing relations in obtaining documents of a permissive nature.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u93	Finish up, Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u94	read. Please accept the bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u95	Thank you. Let's sign up for a discussion. People's MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u96	Dear colleagues! National MP Lapina, group "For Ukraine", faction "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense". I want to draw your attention to two factors. The first factor, this bill, is actually a repetition of a bill submitted by the President almost a year ago. Then, for political reasons, I do not find others, and such a bill was rejected. I think it was a fundamental mistake for the Ukrainian Parliament. For a year now, we could have had a situation where entrepreneurs would not be pressured by permits. The second circumstance that I want to pay attention to. Why I think it is so important that we adopt this bill as soon as possible. Look at this list, you're going to have hair. That's all, these hundreds of permits have to be obtained today by a small entrepreneur who creates 4-5 jobs. Imagine, it's not some big factory where the whole department is working to get permits. A small entrepreneur is similarly subject to this horrendous press. I therefore believe that, unfortunately, the Ukrainian Parliament, because of its political motives for the year, has delayed and indebted our entrepreneurs to the adoption of this law. I'm convinced that by the second reading, we have to cut this list by about twice, and I'm addressing our government as an honorary, don't go to our committee in turn, or we have this position, we need to shorten permits, but every ministry comes and tells, you shorten foreign permits, and our licenses are the most important permits in the world. That's what every ministry says. It's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, It doesn't even depend on politics. It is just the specific interest of specific officials. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u97	Finish up, Xenia Mikhailno. National deputy of the school. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u98	Thank you. Mr President, it is certainly a pleasure that not only the faction “Our Ukraine” but the whole group supports the bill that has been drafted and passed by the Ukrainian Parliament. And I don't think it's worth it here to pursue first, because, as I recall, the number of permits that was cut short in the bill proposed by the president was much smaller. And Parliament, as always, has done well enough and in the future, I am sure that in the second reading we are really working out, we need to minimize the number of permits so that businesses can work and invest in the Ukrainian budget. Because it's really funny when a person who wants to work has to go through a whole bunch of procedural things. I'm not saying that every entrepreneur communicates not only with a permit system that gives real permits to paper, but also with firefighters who come looking in the right place, or with fire extinguishers in the right place, and reports that they also need to live with something and work. And so on. So we have to understand that the wealth or increase in the Ukrainian budget comes at the expense of those who work and earn. And entrepreneurs actually belong to this category, the more we have a scale of entrepreneurs in general, the more quality and fuller the Ukrainian budget will be. So I think the bill is right, it's worth supporting. Of course and very soon I propose, by the way, that in a very short period of time a question be put to the vote and a second reading procedure be voted out, so that we can quickly, fully and qualitatively offer the product that they expect, I'm not convinced, all those who are engaged in entrepreneurial activities now and who are planning to do it in the future. Because the crisis, unfortunately, will also stimulate growth, a small, small enterprise. On the one hand, it's not bad, but we have to help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u99	Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u100	Dear colleagues! Of course, I will implement the faction's decision to support this bill. But it is simply an obligation to comment, for entrepreneurs are pressured by a system that is not allowed, businesses are pressured, looted, broken down by chaoticity, and a lack of systems in the development of bills that are supposed to help them survive, increase production volumes, create jobs, and so forth. No relation to supporting our small, medium-sized business business will this bill have, because, first of all, it's not clear what responsibility is there for those public structures that will require new documents, new and new ones, if even a short list is cut. But that's not the point. Dear colleagues! But don't you realize that if we don't accept the bills here, if those dragon taxes go into effect, then again, there's an increase in taxes at the local level with regard to our entrepreneurs, I'll tell you that in the very near future, in the very first place in the city of Zaporozhye, 27,000 entrepreneurs will be on the street. In whose interests will these congregations be held? Of course, in the interests of those who have the opportunity to throw them out on the street and build their own hyper-, supermarket and so forth. I think the rise in tax pressure is cancelling, it's already levelling, and it's finally disrupting all the planned or projected benefits that we should have achieved since the introduction of this bill. Therefore, I call on the committee and legislators of the legislative initiative to address the problems of supporting small and medium -sized businesses, developing entrepreneurial activities. Dear colleagues! Take a complex approach, take a systematic approach, reject the chaoticity and feverishness of patching holes, because nothing good about our Ukrainian economy is going to add to such approaches.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u101	Thank you. The discussion is over. I am voting on the draft law on the list of documents of a permissive nature in the field of economic activity, for adoption in the first reading, please identify yourself. [[No. 3224]] [[17:24:05]] For 396 Decision taken. A draft Law amending certain legislative acts to minimize the negative effects of the financial crisis on economic operators is being announced for consideration. The report is Natalia Juryovna Kraljevska.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u102	Respectable voters! Dear colleagues! Dear Alexander Vladimirovich! We have now heard many statements on an integrated approach, and we fully support you that today's reform of our licensing system, the regulatory policy system, is now in need of a serious integrated approach. To this end, an anti-crisis centre has been established in the Committee on Industrial Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, where we have invited as national deputies, as representatives of associations, public organizations and representatives of entrepreneurship. And for the past month, we have been sitting and trying to get those proposals from entrepreneurs that today require priority consideration, prioritization. As a result, Bill 3429 was born. Some of the provisions of this bill. Many European countries are now considering all possible options for entrepreneurship support, both by the Government and Parliament. And we understand the need for the Ukrainian Parliament to take a systemic position. Today, both the country and business in crisis need stability, so the bill strengthens the practice of long-term leases of public and utility property. We also propose to reduce the clearly exaggerated requirements for the size of a limited-liability statutory fund of societies, especially during the crisis from the current one hundred minimum wages to 500 bracelets. This will facilitate business creation and employment creation today. We have also brought to a logical conclusion the process of introducing a single window, which we have heard of for many years, but unfortunately, a fully unified window in our country works more on paper, but not on facts. And in the case of public registration of operators, the supply is now recorded by entrepreneurs. The process of bringing an end to the legal person is being simplified, which is also essential today during the crisis. The draft establishes the basic requirements for the time and procedure for the issuance of permit documents. It is envisaged that a number of mining activities will be re-licensed.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u103	Finish it, Natalia Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u104	The minimum period of validity of the licence is increasing. The project provides for the abolition of mandatory certification of services in the tourism sector. It is also proposed that proposals for regulatory acts be reduced to 10 days during the crisis. Regrettably, this procedure is not working in principle right now. We receive a number of proposals and hope for a second reading to expand and finalize the bill. No additional material resources and resources from the State budget are required by the bill, and therefore a large request is made for a first-reading bill. The decision of the Regulatory Policy, Industry and Enterprise Committee to support the bill in its first reading. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u105	If you would like to participate in the discussion, please sign up. Kseniya Mikhailovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u106	Xenia Lapina, group "For Ukraine!", faction "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense". I want to draw your attention to the fact that this bill is a little bit of an eclectic character, it combines absolutely necessary and really anti-crisis measures with some of the points from which, I think to the second reading, I want to remind you that the proposal to shorten the list of mandatory certification, for example, the deletion of the mandatory certification of the tourism sector has already been made by the President of Ukraine and again for political reasons has been rejected, for a year we have rejected our tourism sector in fact when the certification condition is available, for example, graphine with water. Whoever used to go to our hotel knows that they've gone much further, they've already become a European level many of them, and they have different requirements for their own quality of services. And such nonsense, if you'll excuse me, there's still so much left in our legislation. Therefore, we certainly support some of the proposals, in particular, as regards the actual implementation of the single window format. However, I would like to point out that a proposal for the introduction of the so - called only window in areas must be thrown out before the second reading. I want to point out that this, in fact, duplicates the only windows available in local self - government today, actually leads to such an unhealthy competition between government authorities when they compete, who issues permits. It's not normal, we have to bring it to a normal European format. So there is work to be done here for the second reading. I suggest we adopt this law in the first.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u107	Ensign Alexei Vitaliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u108	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! In support of the overall need to reduce the number of licensings and in general the fact that, well, as a direction, it's relatively good, I want to point out that the project contains situations where increases in government fixed and regulated prices and tariffs cannot be introduced in response to the financial crisis. And it's not in economic crisis conditions at all. If supported by such a proposal, the government will constantly blame local authorities for the impossibility of holding back prices and making an appropriate donation. I mean, as a whole, it's a great idea, but it all needs a proper adaptation to crisis realities, it needs very thorough work, and that's why I don't think it can be supported in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u109	The discussion is over. I am voting on the adoption in the first reading of the draft Law amending certain legislative acts to minimize the negative effects of the financial crisis on economic operators. Number 3429. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:31:23]] For 244 Decision taken. A draft Decision on urgent measures to preserve the territorial integrity of the National Botanical Garden is under consideration. Mistake. [[National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine]] Report - National Deputy of Ukraine Seminoga Anatoly Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u110	Honourable Chairman, Honorable Colleagues of the People's Deputies of Ukraine! The National Botanical Garden of the Name of Grych National Academy of Ukraine is a natural-intelligence facility and a leading scientific institution in Ukraine that conducts research into the problems of acclimation, dendrology and parking, conservation of the natural fund of rare and endangered plants, and so on. In the National Botanical Garden of Grych, unique collections of tropical and subtropical plants, located in orangers of more than 5,000 square feet [5,000 sq m], are collected. In connection with the construction and cutting of green plantations on the slopes around the botanical garden today, there has been a complex situation involving a landslide that threatens the destruction of rare plant collections of the National Botanical Garden and the failure of its basic tasks. In addition, the National Botanical Garden of Gryska is located in the city of Kiev in a historic city, namely, the Beast Mountain. Animal caves are on a national scale as an object of cultural heritage of national importance and have the status of an archaeological reserve. Articles 49 and 40 of the Ukrainian Natural Protection Fund Act provide for the establishment of security zones, if necessary, to provide for the protection regime, particularly for botanical gardens. This decree proposes to preserve the botanical garden and to establish a protective area of the National Botanical Garden at least 200 meters [200 m] along the perimeter of the fence. Also confirm the boundaries and positions on the definition of the protection zone of the National Botanical Garden of Grych of the National Academy of Ukraine. Prior to the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers, it is proposed that a moratorium be introduced on the allocation of land at least 200 meters [200 m] around the Botanical Garden, Kyiv’s Botanical Garden, until the protection zone is established. Request to support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u111	The committee will report to Ivan Alexandrovich Hare, please. National Deputy Bunny Ivan Alexandrovich is absent from the Supreme Council. Please report from the committee to the national deputy Oliynik.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u112	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! The draft ruling proposed today is indeed very important and relevant not only to the city of Kiev, because the facts of the violations of natural law are unique: Beetle Island, Truhan Island, is a far short list of ecologically hot spots that are only in Kiev. And in this respect, at the legislative level, the issue of the creation of conservation zones is unfortunately not resolved to the end. In accordance with the Ukrainian Act on the Nature and Command Fund of Ukraine, the construction of industrial and other objects, the development of economic activities, which can lead to negative influence and natural-commanding funds, is not allowed in the protection zones. Protective areas should be included in the design of the planning documentation. However, the procedures for creating security zones are virtually out of order. On May 12, 2008, a committee hearing was held: “Ukraine’s Natural Command Fund: State and prospects for development”. The hearing recommendations clearly indicate the necessity today at the legislative level of resolving the issues of the mechanism for the creation of protective protection areas. The project that is being proposed today before the consideration of the Supreme Council partially solves this problem. He proposes an appropriate mechanism for the creation of the National Botanical Garden of Grych and aimed at preventing the negative effects of farming in its adjacent territories. The situation around the National Botanical Garden is indeed very dangerous today. Building around the perimeter, there's construction, cutting green plants that actually pose a real threat to the collection of this unique natural-command fund, which today is certainly a national acquisition of Ukraine. The committee discussed the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on urgent measures to preserve the territorial integrity of the National Botanical Garden of Grych, the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, submitted by the National Deputy of Ukraine to Seminoga, supported the project and recommended its adoption as a whole. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u113	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Desiring to participate in the discussion, they are recorded. National MP Bevanko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u114	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies! It is an incomprehensible thing to prevent the harmful things that want to destroy our national park. We'd have to tell you what harmful productions are that need to be moved. Maybe there's 200 meters there and maybe not enough, maybe there's some other harmful chemical production there, maybe even a bigger area. But 200 meters is a wrong decision to surround this land in general. So I would like to know exactly what the goal is and how many hectares of land will be removed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u115	People's deputy Kamchatny.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u116	Kamchatny, Kharkiv Region, “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko”. First of all, I'm supporting the author of the Seminogue project and my fellow Oilman from the committee, I just reported. But I don't think there's a problem in the National Botanical Garden of Grych. Similar problems may occur in dozens of other botanical gardens in our country. A similar situation occurred in the botanical garden of Kharkiv. A similar situation took place in the park area of Kharkiv when we walk along the Belgrade highway and see metal fences beyond which trees are no longer visible, and people tell us that oak trees and age plants are being cut down there. Who is not familiar with the problem, I propose to walk on what is called the Kingdom Tropic in Crimea. You will not be able to follow this Kingdom trail because it is three times covered by illegal construction in this park zone. It's a national problem and you can't just limit yourself to the Gryczka garden, you have to raise it wider. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m1.u117	The discussion is over. I am voting on the proposal for a committee to adopt in general the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on urgent measures to preserve the territorial integrity of the National Botanical Garden of the Name of the Grych National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine. Registration number 2455. I'd like to make up my mind. [[17:39:41]] For 403 Decision taken. Thus, all the draft legislative acts introduced to today's meeting schedule have been considered and made up our minds. At this evening plenary session, I declare closed. The next plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will begin tomorrow at 10 a.m.
