ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine, guests of the Supreme Council! Please prepare for registration. Please include the “Council” system. [[10:01:53]] There were 392 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The morning plenary session is open. Dear colleagues, the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from 1 to 4 December 2009. During this period, there were six plenary sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, 25 issues of the agenda were considered: 1 law and 13 regulations were adopted, 5 bills and 2 draft decrees were adopted, 1 bill was adopted in the second reading and sent for third reading, 1 bill and 1 draft decree were rejected; the President's veto was overtaken by 1 law, 5 laws were rejected; 113 parliamentary requests were announced. Dear colleagues, according to article 25 of the Rules on Tuesday, we have 30 minutes to speak on behalf of authorized factions. Please sign in. Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! In particular, I turn to the electorate on another occasion. I ask you to remember the date: December 3, 11 am 34 minutes 5 seconds. The session hall only garners 218 votes in favour of beating the President's veto on the Ukrainian Law on the Moratorium on Drugs and Pharmaceuticals. I would like to see everyone who has been affected and affected by this law, for no doubt almost every citizen needs medicine in every family, medicine, and unfortunately, almost every citizen needs it. Recently, some shadow schemes have revealed how pharmacologists earn up to 900 percent, up to 900 percent! They buy drugs for 10 bucks, and they end up selling them for 250 bucks. And they sell each other, the other, the 10th, the 5th. The last so-called “straight” company that buys drugs at a rather high price on its own, then eliminates itself, and in the end, what you pay for medicines comes back again to the company that sold these drugs or bought, more specifically, these drugs into the manufacturer for 10 bracelets. And the profit, I'm stressing again, is over 900 percent. And I would like you, the honourable voters, to point out that those who are most yelling and shouting today that they are protecting you have not voted for overcoming the veto. And what's weird? Of course, it is a surprise that the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" did not vote in favour of this law, for overcoming the President's veto, little wonder, because they are a faction of the President. What is more, why is it that the faction that is constantly speaking against the President, why has the faction that constantly passes all the vetoes on the laws that the President imposes, namely the faction “Blok Timoshenko”, not voted in favour of overcoming the veto? Although she seemed to have argued that all pharmacies should be state - owned. They beat themselves in the chest and drove around all the regions, distributed the gauze binders from the technical gauze, then found out, or from the gauze that rotted, and talked about what they would do to protect the workers not only from the flu but also from all other diseases. What happened? Who had the arguments for this faction, the so - called folk faction, that they did not vote in favour of breaking the law? And so I'd like you, honourable voters, that on January 17th, when you're going to the polls, you're looking very well and very carefully at the words that are coming out of the screens, from the other boards with those actual actions that are actually happening. Another problem. In these days, you know, they celebrate, the leaders of the state, the authorities, the day of the rescue of the Chernobyl nuclear station. At the same time, when they lay flowers and mention the dead, they live for nothing. The living are taking care of the Cabinet of Ministers because, you know, what kind of funding and what kind of budget costs it is for the Chernobyl Foundation. It's a Pharisee again. On the one hand, the laying of flowers, on the other hand, is not a penny for the implementation of the Chernobyl funds. According to recent information, which is echoing again today from the media, sorry for the tautology, the state continues to fight total monuments. You know, for days, you tried to break the vandals into another monument, located in the territory of Dørjinsky, a monument to the soldiers, a monument to those who were and protected our state in the authorities of the CDC of the KGB. Fortunately, such granite has not yet been broken. Surprisingly, though, not only did the police not forbid it, but they did almost virtually help to destroy it. For what time will this vandalism continue, and for what time will our nation be so infamous? Over and over again, the conclusion is that this is no way to go on living, and really January 17 is a real opportunity to change this hateful power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u3	Krzemyakin Andriy Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! Starting today's plenary week, on behalf of the faction of the “Julia Tymoshenko Block” I would like to address the colleagues of all the factions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This year, we have only two plenary weeks left, and at the same time, the election campaign is actively under way. So I wanted to ask a colleague at the hall, let's focus our efforts on issues that need urgent and urgent solutions. And the first such issue is the situation in the health system in Ukraine. Recent events of illness have demonstrated the need to change and improve the health system itself. The health system needs real resources rather than slogans. Blocking by President Yushchenk and his members from the Party of Regions over the months of government budget proposals to increase wages for medical personnel, technical refurbishment of hospitals is not just a fight against government, it is a war against residents of Donetsk and Lviv, Lugansk and Ternopol, Kiev and Sevastopol. That is why the faction of the “Julia Tymoshenko Block” will insist that the Supreme Council of Ukraine today adopt changes to the State budget to allocate at least 608 million dollars to the health care system, especially since the National Bank of Ukraine has officially confirmed that such funds are. I want to draw the attention of our colleagues from the Party of Regions. People need help in areas where many of your adherents live. You're deliberately taking time to tell me that it's impossible to get the money. The Government of Timoshenko does not “advise” funds, but proposes a real programme to apply them to the benefit of the people of our state. [[in quotes]] This week's regional party plans to consider the 2010 budget. It's a question from which our opponents try to make another sensation and accuse the government. You keep mentioning the Supreme Council’s decree that the government should submit a draft budget. But, honourable national deputies, the budget was presented. You rejected it, you didn't make any suggestions and observations, no conclusions as to why the draft budget was rejected, why it didn't set someone up. First, give a professional explanation of these questions, and then give Kabmin all the necessary suggestions and conclusions. Then demand something from the government. The next question that needs to be resolved in the shortest possible time. This is the adoption of a new law on the election of the President of Ukraine. I understand why our opponents do not support this initiative. Because there are positions in the drafting of the old law that allow for the application of a large - scale counterfeiting mechanism. That's why our faction proposes to review the draft law on the President's election in a new edition. Our main requirement is to amend electoral legislation to make it impossible to list voters later than two days before the vote. Or the law should provide for the possibility of putting the electorate on the list by decision of the court, not the territorial commission, as called for by the Party of the Regions. Apparently, the practice of riding bus convoys with tourist voters doesn't give you any peace of mind. The next issue on which our faction will insist is the creation and consideration by the Ukrainian Supreme Council's Temporary Investigation Commission on the situation of the ownership by Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic of a state residence of 140 hectares per mountain. The draft Decision is written by the national deputy of our faction Sergey Mishchenko. The uniqueness of the situation is that throughout the country, the leader of the Party of Regions, by the way, the candidate for the Presidents of Ukraine, is demonstrating his impunity. While in power, he took over the government residence, perhaps his desire to become president is motivated by what he likes, for example, the Marian Palace and the park around him. The newly created TSK should also provide an explanation of Mr. Yanukovic’s ownership of the hunting grounds in Sukholucze, where he owns thirty thousand acres [30 thousand ha]. There are also questions about the falsification of your personal declaration. Today, it's a self-declaration, and tomorrow, as it was in 2004, the results of the elections. This is exactly what Mr. Janukovic is planning to do with the Party of Regions, along with Mr. Yushchenko and other satellites and technical candidates, to block the work of the Ministry of Internal Affairs by trying to compromise and resign his leadership. The Supreme Party of the Region hopes that this will finally open the way for them to falsify their elections, bribes, voter intimidation, pressure on the courts, and election board members. Dear colleagues, your attempt to rehearse large-scale falsifications in the walls of the Supreme Council has been defeated. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u5	Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u6	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Respectable citizens, respectable colleagues! The absence of a well - thought - out government policy on peasants leads to Ukraine’s growing problems. Not just a third of our own citizens are thrown at, we're robbed of stories, we're cut off by traditions that carry the village. The same village on whose shoulders the economy of Ukraine was actually built. When decisions were made on the decomposing of the collapsing land, no one likely expected the earth to become one of the most expensive goods of the Ukrainian shadow market. He did not count, for the land was not so clearly funded, such as with privatization certificates. The villagers were indeed to receive the land on which their ancestors worked for generations. But only in time, having understood the real value and value of the earth, did individual parts hurry to adopt it in any way. Despite their right and justice, the villagers began to deprive them of their belongings for centuries. The “Block of Lithuania” is constantly approached with a request to protect the villagers and to deal with the landslides of local and capital areas, local government officials and government officials, who, by buying land for no price or simply taking land into the peasants, are already imagining themselves to be feudal with their respective circumstances. In their hands, however, the judicial authority, which in part became not justice, but an excuse for the unjust encroachment of oligarchs, latifundists, on national property. And it's not just about the land around Kiev, where thousands of hectares are transferred from the property of rural communities to the property of the rich. Land surveying, where purchased courts, distort legislation in favour of the rich, where government contractors make only paid decisions, becomes typical of the whole of Ukraine. Here's a quote from the Village Councils of Willin and Sands of Bahchisarai in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. The villagers are outraged by the way the authorities constantly overlook their problems. Since 2004, they have defended their rights in the courts. The case is going through the courts not the first round, but during this time the “Crime” agro-firm, which took their land, has already adopted social facilities in villages, schools and kindergartens where businessmen think it is more logical to put hotels than to teach children. What about the courts? It's simple. First, there are no terms of invitation for the customers; secondly, the courts refer to acts of the 56th and 69th years to justify the involvement of the agro-firm on the ground. If this logic continues, passports will soon be taken from the peasants and then the 1861 reform will be lifted and the village will be restored to a firm law. Not surprisingly, the latifunda’s agreement also requires slave labor. In doing so, eyes are constantly closed as firms that have taken land into the countryside conduct their activities. Unearmarked use of land, abuse of office, financial fraud, there is no one to do this, for no one will pay for it. It is no wonder that there are already instances of opposition in Ukraine, and it is not just peaceful protests, peasants are blocking roads, allowing government executives to make illegal and unjust decisions. If the state does not return to their faces, they will be able to gain a broader and even more aggressive character. The Lithuanian Block, for which not only in words, but also in fact the important interests of the villagers, are convinced that the real protection of the country's interests, the protection of the right to land is only possible when the shadow market of the land is stopped. This will happen when the judges act in the interests of the people, that is, they will be accountable to him and he will be chosen by the people. And the village can only be raised if these courts are able to take out criminals not only by the state but also by individual firms. The Lithuanian Block is convinced that the land survey will be stopped, the question is whether the state will stop it today or whether the villagers themselves will stop it tomorrow, which may no longer be peaceful methods. It's worth thinking about. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u7	Hell-bent Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u8	As with most of my colleagues here, I regularly meet with voters in my district in Zaporozhye. At these meetings, I have a hard time getting questions about why you, MPs in Parliament, are imitating legislative activities before the elections, but you don't have any really important questions today. What concerns our voters with you when pensions and salaries are raised, which will be with the 2010 budget. You know, they ask me how all the food, all the drugs, you know, the level of poverty, the country and the people have traveled. Most often, however, it is a question of why power does not respond to the facts of corruption and theft of budgets, which means people's money. By the way, three speakers today speak precisely on the subject of corruption. Not long ago, a colleague of mine, a man known by all the agrarians, Rybuk Sergey Nikolaevich, from this rostrum, spoke of the murderous facts of corruption identified in the Court of Auditors as Goskomreserva. The management of this public company, under the cover of the country's top officials, has purchased 10,000 tons of meat, 4.5 thousand tons of olive oil, and 10 million cans of canned cans. These quantities of products over the year could feed the pensioners of Ivano-Frankovsky, Chercas and Zaporozhye. And it's not bad that they bought these products, it's scary at what corrupt prices they bought. At the time of purchase, the market price for Goskomstat and the Court of Auditors did not exceed 20 grevens per kilogram. The delegates from Gosserve bought almost 30 of it, and the oil was 22 — they bought 32 of it. That seemed small to them, and they decided to work on the same products that were then removed from storage. Here's the schematic, the theft mechanism was exactly the opposite. Bovine, purchased for the State at 30, was sold at a cost of six or five times! A 32-for-the-sale oil for the State sold itself 7. The landowners were not repulsed to make money on everything. Wheat at a purchase price of a thousand greaves per tonne was sold for its 274. Then I fell on the table to retirees in the form of bread at the price of grain for a thousand bracelets. The same schemes were used for the purchase of petrol, diesel. For the unimaginable, they sold gasoline and a 400 - percent - discount tannery. As a whole, a group of fraudsters, under the auspices of the Goskomreserva, was stolen from the country's budget by some two billion bracelets or sums, twice covering the necessary resources to raise minimum pensions and salaries. I'll pass on the name of the firms involved in the theft of the century to the Bureau. The first in this list is a company from the town of Mirgorod with the unusual name “Grandmother's Recipes”. I don't know who she is, this grandmother, but all of her recipes and recipes are being studied by the Attorney General's Office at the request of the faction of the Party of the Regions. I appeal to the President, the Prime Minister, to the Minister of the Interior, who has so far led all his work to ridicule and insult each other through the media, to colleagues from the ruling faction of the majority. How many more of your positions in Goszers and other government structures have to be stolen from pensioners, doctors, teachers to demand that you remove your posts and punish the looters from the budget. Juli Vladimirovn said in her interview that it was her job not to educate fools but to prevent them from taking over. You've already allowed them! And why wait tomorrow if you could do it yesterday. One answer: The Goszers follow orders, and whoever gives the order will do nothing with them yesterday, today, or tomorrow. My colleague, speaking today, said quite correctly: the Timoshenko government is not winning.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u9	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u10	Timoshenko's government, my colleague said, is not making any money. I totally agree, he's admiring them!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u11	Martinenko Mikola Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u12	Dear fellow citizens, dear colleagues! First of all, let us welcome the professional celebration of all the members of the judicial system, wish them good health and fruitful work for the benefit of the citizens of our country, citizens, private citizens, eagerly await the honest, just, legal work of the entire judicial system. Now let's move on. Before the presidential election in Ukraine, dangerous political games take place. The situation in the country is so tense, and here before the election, the President suddenly became clear and began to accuse all the leaders of the power structures of all possible sins. At first glance, it looks like trying to play "soldiers" at least in the last days, but actually the situation is much more serious. Criticizing the muscle is for what, but what happens to the country if you decapitate the IMF and the U.S.S.A. at a time when the political resistance reaches the peak, so I'll remind everyone that we, the country now lives without a minister of defense. Will this help to control the situation, calm elections, and prevent counterfeiting? It is clear that the state's head-of-violence conflict is not just an attempt by presidential candidates to gain critical ratings, it is not only his attempt to take responsibility for the state of affairs in Ukraine. It is an element of the great political opposition. With the joint efforts of the President’s Secretariat and the opposition, two attempts have already been made to resign the government of Timoshenko. The third volume was annotated, but it was not even registered in the draft regulation. Apparently, 150 signatures were not collected. I'm sure the session room won't support the attempt to resign the Minister of Interior to become the next trial stone for the resignation of the entire government. Let me explain why I find this proposal of the President, supported by the Party of the Regions, to be adventurous. Indeed, the situation in law enforcement is not good. But it's not fair to try to translate all the blame into today's Minister of the Ministry of Justice Lucenka. The problems created long before him and Yuri Vitaliyovich is trying to solve them. We've had a difficult legacy, and the entire law enforcement system needs reform. Unfortunately, the president, who, by the way, put Lucenka in the prime minister's office, was only destroying the IMF. What's worth is the misunderstandings with the State Inspectorate. By her will, the Head of State would be hurled, restored. Today, the President is simply compiling accounts with a disagreeable minister and, in fact, with the entire police force. For the first time on the day of the police, no State reward will be given to those who died in the line of duty. I don't want to think that that's the kind of answer to the fact that since 2004, 600 officials who are appointed by decrees of the Head of State or by leaders of the presidential vertical. The danger is that the decapitation of the most powerful force structure on the eve of intense elections is a step towards destabilizing the situation in the country. And the question is not only that the police are the only body that protects electoral offices and commissions, but that means ballot papers and protocols. Billions generally provide public order, security at mass electoral action. And it's up to the minister to decide on all the key issues. Clearly, the new Prime Minister of the Supreme Council cannot be appointed before the election. The closure of the IMF at the barn, as the President wishes, can facilitate counterfeiting and fraud. Who Needs a Repetition in 2004. Therefore, I would like to suggest to my esteemed colleagues, including the opposition not to be here. Two months later, the country will receive a new President with a mandate of trust. Convinced that a new parliamentary coalition will be formed, including representatives of all factions, it will appoint a government of national unity. And it is they who will carry out all the necessary human resources in the military and will take care of order in them and in the country as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u13	Dear colleagues, the factions have come to an end. So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. First of all, we have two issues to consider that relate to making changes to Ukraine's State Budget this year. We adopted both bills on the first reading and also approved the decision to prepare them for the second reading under the reduced procedure. Regrettably, the committee failed to consider these issues for second reading and failed to comply with the relevant regulatory requirements. In addition, comparative tables are drawn up by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in accordance with the requirements of the Rules. Given that the issues that are being addressed in these bills are of social importance and have received consensus support in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I propose that we address these issues today without a decision of the budgetary committee. I can only do it with your consent. Is there anyone in the session room who would deny that we should consider these issues? None. So we're unanimous about what we're dealing with right now. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2009. [[on the financing of justice]] [[Registration number 5238]] Mikola Ivanovich Derkach, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u14	Dear chairman, distinguished national deputies, invited! On 3 December, the Supreme Council adopted a bill on amendments to the 2009 Act on the State Budget of Ukraine, submitted by the Government at number 5238. [[on the financing of justice]] This bill has been designated by the President of Ukraine as an urgent matter for further consideration and foresees an increase of 124,3 million dollars for the Government's administration to address urgent and urgent issues of the functioning of the courts of general jurisdiction due to an increase in national domestic borrowing. In accordance with the mandate of the Supreme Council, on December 4, to prepare a draft for the second reading, a budget committee was scheduled to meet on December 3. However, the meeting did not take place because of the absence of a quorum; for the same reason, there was no meeting of the Budget Committee on the morning of December 4. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Committee on Budgetary Questions, in its consideration of the bill in the first reading, recommended to the Supreme Council that it be accepted as a basis and, as a whole, that it should be amended to Article 11 of the State Budget 2009 Act, with the aim of increasing the national debt threshold by 124 million,282.6 thousand dollars in relation to the increase in government borrowing in this bill, as well as to clarifying the summary figures of the state budget to ensure that the bill in question is aligned with the current edition of the State Budget Act 2009. Therefore, in light of the importance of the issue that I have mentioned as the national deputy on December 4, a comparative table for second reading, taking into account my proposals, which are essentially editorial and technical legal clarifications to the bill, primarily in the revision of the general indicators of the State budget and were supported in the decision of the Budget Committee of November 18 on the draft bill. On the basis of the above, I propose to consider the comparative table I have submitted to this bill, to support the amendments I have proposed to the law and to adopt the bill under number 5238 in the second reading and generally as a law. In its conclusion to the comparative table, the Chief Legal Authority points to the need to reconcile the digital income and expenditure figures of the State Budget by adopting Bills No. 5238 — Justice and No. 5383 — followed by the flu. Thus, according to lawyers, it would be appropriate to bring these bills together in one stage in preparation for the second reading. However, it is not procedural.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u15	Finish up, Mikola Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u16	without the proper decision of the Supreme Council. Therefore, in considering the following bill, number 5383 on influenza, we need to take into account this view of the General Legal Authority. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u17	Dear colleagues, we had two draft laws from different entities of the legislative initiative. And we realize that there can be differences in attitudes toward each of them. We accepted both of them in the first reading, and we will both consider in the second reading the adoption of the law as a whole. By Law 5238 we have four amendments made by the committee head Nikola Ivanovich Derkach. Since the committee has not considered the amendment, you and I are now required to determine each of them. Correction of the first Mikoli Ivanovich. Please, Mikola Ivanovich, comment on your first amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u18	It's considered. Tables are given out. It is here that all the final figures in the budget should be included. In previous drafts, this was both the Euro-12, and the socio-standards, and the ferry bridge, that is, the usual technical procedure. I ask you to put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u19	Amendment No. 1 of the People’s Deputy Mikli Ivanovich is subject to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:36:11]] For 299 Correction supported. Another repair. Mikola Ivanovich, please, the essence of your amendment, second.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u20	The substance of the amendment is that we are changing domestic debt by 124 billion. Therefore, all other expendable articles are relevant. Millions, sorry, 124 million. Thank you. Therefore, please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u21	Amendment No. 2 shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:37:01]] For three hundred Supported. Amendment number 3. Please, Mikola Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u22	This also applies to changes in article 11 relating to the same figure 124.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u23	Mikola Ivanovich, I read carefully. I know. It's in the room microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u24	I ask you to put to the vote, please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u25	Dear colleagues, Amendment No. 3 of the People's Deputy of the Ripper is a vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:37:39]] For 350. Correction supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u26	Similarly, Amendment 4, in addition to Appendix 2, also changes in the final figures. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u27	Amendment No. 4 shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:38:07]] For 346 Supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u28	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u29	Dear colleagues, I am now voting on the adoption of the second reading and, as a whole, the bill of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2009 (Registration No. 5238). I'd like to make a statement. [[10:38:41]] For 372 The law has been passed in general. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2009 is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 5383]] Please, Mikola Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u30	Dear chairman, distinguished national deputies, invited! On 3 December, the Supreme Council adopted a bill to amend the 2009 Act on the State Budget of Ukraine, submitted by the National MP, Azarov Mikola Janović. [[on the financing of measures to combat the flu epidemic]] [[No. 5383]] To prepare the bill for second reading to the committee along with my suggestions, the proposals came from Lášk, Makienk, and the Health Committee. My proposal and National Deputy Lalashka agrees with the government and is to increase the expenditure from 200 million dollars to 608.2 million dollars, of which 330.3 million dollars will be allocated to the Ministry of Health and 277.9 million dollars as a subsidy to local budgets with administrative and territorial units. In doing so, it is proposed to redistribute between the Special and General Funds of the State Budget revenue from excess of the National Bank’s expenditure of 608 million dollars and to make other adjustments. This indicator is real because it is confirmed by the National Bank Board's decision of 30 November to recalculate three quarters of the current year into the State Budget this amount. The Health Committee has proposed that 608,2 million dollars be distributed in such a way that at least half of them are channelled into the area in the form of subsidies to local budgets, and the other half is directed to the Ministry of Health to purchase the necessary medical equipment and medical supplies. At the same time, it is proposed to monitor the use of appropriate budgetary resources at the Supreme Council Committee on Health and Budget. Other proposals mainly relate to the introduction of the bill to the requirements of the legislative technique in part of the drafting of the bill on changes to the State budget. In line with the Supreme Council’s mandate to prepare a draft for the second reading on December 4th, a budget committee meeting was scheduled to take place on the morning of the same day. However, the meeting did not take place because of the absence of a quorum. On December 4, therefore, on the basis of the importance of the issue I have mentioned as a national MP, a comparative table for second reading, taking into account the proposals made by legal entities, is addressed to the Supreme Council. Since the Supreme Council of December 4 did not consider the issue, on December 9, a regular meeting of the Committee on Budget Affairs was scheduled to be held to finalize the bill in an orderly manner. However, the Committee did not meet again because of the absence of a quorum. On the other hand, I would like to take a look at what I have presented.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u31	Finish up, Mikola Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u32	This bill, which I have proposed, supports the conclusions on the status of taking into account proposals for the bill and the adoption of Bill No. 5383 as a second reading and as a whole as a law. In its conclusion to the comparative table, the Chief Legal Authority draws attention to the need to reconcile the digital income and expenditure figures of the State Budget by adopting Bills No. 5238 “Justice” adopted and No. 5383 “Gryp”. In the opinion of the lawyers, therefore, it would be appropriate to bring these bills together in one stage in preparation for the second reading, but this cannot be done on a procedural basis without the decision of the Supreme Council. Therefore, in the event of the adoption of Bill No. 5383 as a whole as a law in preparation for the signing of the Head of the Supreme Council, the Budget Committee, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council, should make the necessary editorial and technical legal clarifications to the text and addenda to the bill with a view to ensuring its compatibility with the bill already adopted today on amending the 2009 Act on the State Budget of Ukraine, number 5238, as a whole, as a law in part of the State budget's summary figures, in particular the need to increase the total expenditure of the general budget by 124 million 282.6 dollars in connection with the increase in the amount of expenditure for justice. [[on the financing of justice]] Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u33	Thank you, Mikola Ivanovich. Let us now consider the amendments made by the people’s deputies of Ukraine to the text of the law. First amendment: People’s Deputies of Derkach, Makeenka, Lyszko
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u34	It concerns a purely name. The correct title is “For Ukraine’s 2009 State Budget”. Therefore, please put to the vote. It's technical.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u35	Correction number. Wait a second. Please, Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u36	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, if we do, and I suggest that we agree to the committee's opinion on bringing these two bills together, because, in fact, otherwise there is no logic, of course, if we support it, then unify it. If we unite them, it is logical to take those words down. If we do not unite them, we should leave those words in the name so that we can understand what they mean. But I offer to unify and withdraw those words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u37	Dear Adam Ivanovich, we have already passed the law under number 5238. That's why we're going to have two laws. Amendment number 1 shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:45:30.]] For the 220. No correction supported. Amendment number 2. Please, Mikola Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u38	I'm sorry, first.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u39	Amendment No. 2: Mikola Ivanovich Derkach and National Deputy Lazko Please, your argument.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u40	With regard to Amendment 2, here is the proposal for 608 million, and you have in the table the distribution of areas in the form of subsidies and the Ministry of Health. I would like to support this amendment. It's agreed. The areas are waiting for these amounts. means.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u41	Please, the Chechetov People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u42	Dear Alexander Vladimirović, distinguished colleagues! Let us answer the question: why did the bill come into existence? The bill came about for only one reason: that the Government had shown its full inability to combat the influenza epidemic. When it didn't even turn out to be marshmallows. When, with the rotten gauze taken from the Dereserva, the threads began to tie and sew handmade. Therefore, the root cause of the bill was the Government's inability to protect people from the influenza epidemic, and I think the word “Influenza epidemic” should appear. Otherwise it's not clear how, for what, we're putting 600 million in the government's pocket for elections.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u43	Please, Commissioner Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u44	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, once the bad picture has taken over Odessa, it has been introduced. The area of Donetsk is covered. It's all because you haven't made up your mind. The hospitals are very, very crowded. Today, they are not equipped with all that is needed for humans. And what are we talking about today? On the financing of the Ministry of Health and on subsidies to local budgets What's the government for? For what? I am grateful to the national deputy of Derkach and Lachka for making the right proposals. And what we just slept through in the name, we didn't write about the flu, because it's not just about the flu. We have to vote. Mr. Chechetov, I urge you not to do any more of what you do. Don't increase the number of deaths, don't. And your hand, when you destroy everything, remember that in this case it acts like hair in death -- that's how it works. That's the only way to vote! Change the direction of the hand.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u45	Correctionor Láško Oleg Valerijovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u46	Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. I'd like to talk to colleagues who don't support these amendments. The amendment proposes to allocate 600 million dollars to fight the flu, not 200 million, as proposed by the drafters of the bill, but 600 million dollars. And these costs are in the National Bank. And the National Bank has given official information that they have these funds. So, come on, you're accusing yourself of not having any apricots, not everything else, so let's vote and take a vote, and make 600 million dollars to make sure that all the tools are in place to fight the flu. We've got another wave of the epidemic, let's split it up, we have to vote on the amendment, and we have to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u47	Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u48	Oleg Zarubinsky, Block of Lithuania. Dear colleagues! There is such a constructive suggestion that we do not make medical questions the subject of electoral battalions. I know it sounds like 608 million, maybe it's impressive to someone, but statistics are statistics, so take these 608 million dollars for the number of hospitals in Ukraine and for the number of patients, and take into account the condition they're in. I think it's really a drop in the sea. If this drop in the sea can be provided by our financial system, which is confirmed by both Minfin and the National Bank, I think we need to put an end to these electoral riots here and vote for a perfectly normal, constructive amendment by our colleague, the head of Mr. Derkach's budget committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u49	Amendment No. 2 of the People’s Deputies of the Ripper and Lazko are voting. I'd like to make up my mind. [[10:50:39]] For 232 The amendment is supported. The factions, please. Region Party – 0, Timoshenko Yulia Block – 148, Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense – 37, Communists – 27, Litvina Block – 19, non-fractional – 1. Amendment number 3. Mikola Ivanovich, this isn't a constitutional proposal at all. We don't have a legislative initiative like the committee. If this is an important amendment, I think we're going to think it's an amendment to the People's Deputy. Please, your argument for this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, the Health Committee has made a written proposal to the Committee, why I have included it in the table. But since we voted in favour of Amendment 2, the amendment went from the Health Committee to the Ministry of Health to the local budgets 50 to 50. That is 300 – local budgets, 300 – Ministry of Health. Therefore, the 3 amendments, which could no longer be put to the vote, were deleted by the second amendment because they had voted redistribution.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u51	Since Mikola Ivanovich does not accept this amendment, we will not put it to the vote because it is not an appropriate subject. Amendment number 4. People’s deputies: Snacker, Makeenka, Laška Please, the substance of the amendment, Mikola Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u52	All other amendments now concern changes to the relevant articles and so on. And in my statement, I said before the signature. Technical and so on, please put to the vote. They're all technical.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u53	Amendment No. 4 shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:52:52]] For 234 The amendment is supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u54	Similar amendment 5, 6, I would like to put to the vote. 7, 8.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u55	Amendment number 5. The People’s Deputies of Derkach, MacKeenka, are in favor of voting. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:53:21]] For 241 Supported. Amendment number six. People's deputies: Picker, Makeyenka, Easy, voter, please. [[10:53:43]] For 241 Supported. Amendment No. 7 of the Maquienka People's Deputies. Please give your argument, Mikola Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u56	Six? It also applies because. It's also technical.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u57	Mikola Ivanovich, please have your comments on this amendment. Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, please take your seat.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u58	It's proposed to reject it here. So I'm 7 and I'm saying it's off-limits.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u59	Does the author need to argue with the amendment? None. Amendment No. 7 of the Maquienka People's MP is voting, please identify yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u60	It is also proposed to reject. [[10:54:53]] For 1 No correction supported. 8 Amendment of the People’s Deputies of MacKeenka Please, Mikola Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u61	It should be taken into account and voted, as it relates to the amendment, the name of the budget programme to be changed, which we had previously included and where other articles had been included. It is therefore purely technical and needs to be voted on.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u62	The author of the amendment has a need for argument? None.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u63	Decline.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u64	Amendment No. 8 shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[10:55:44]] For two. Not supported. Amendment No. 9 of the People's Deputies of Derrick, Makeenka, Laško.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u65	It's suggested to count, it's technical.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u66	Amendment No. 9 shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:56:11]] For 235 The amendment is supported. There is a second reading vote on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2009.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u67	With a proposal for technical law, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u68	In the second reading. [[10:56:42]] For 235 Decision taken. Now, Mikola Ivanovich, you talked about the need for further work. Please, what is it? The essence of whether we can vote now in general, whether we need to make other numbers.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u69	Honourable National Deputies, in the event of the adoption of this Law 5383 as a whole, not as a law, when preparing it for the signing of the Head of the Supreme Council, the Committee on Budgetary Questions, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council, should make the necessary editorial and technical legal clarifications to the text, in addition to the bill aimed at ensuring its compatibility with the bill adopted today on amending the Law on the State Budget 2009 under number 5238, as a whole, as a law in part of the summary indicators of the State budget. [[on the financing of justice]] In particular, the total government budget expenditure should be increased by 124 million,282.6 dollars in connection with the increase in the amount of justice expenditure. It's a purely technical assignment for us.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u70	Mikola Ivanovich, this is a technical thing. The Supreme Council's apparatus can't change the numbers in law, you know? So I then, I asked you personally to have a prepared text that would take into account the possibility of adopting the previous text. So we can vote for specific numbers. This is the State Budget. There cannot be such an easy attitude.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u71	Alexander Vladimirovich,
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u72	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u73	In order to bring everything into line, we did not know whether justice would vote or not. If it is voted on, we can summarize the table, prepare it and put it to a vote before the adoption.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u74	Please, Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u75	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, be careful. There is a logic in the committee head’s words, but only certain. If the previous law had become law, you could have agreed with you. But the previous law we passed is not yet the law. And that's why we can't make changes to today's law, spending and income, because it's not a law yet, you know. So I suggest we don't invent anything, now we vote on this law as a whole as a law and we don't have a choice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u76	Please, Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u77	Dear Alexander Vladimirovich! Dear colleagues! It's a really serious law and we shouldn't have a sleeve any more, but we've had several times before, and then the speaker doesn't sign, so the president doesn't sign. When we're in bed, he sees a representative of the President in bed, and you think he's getting paid for free, he's already making a veto, he's already making a veto. Therefore, in order for the law to not fall under the veto, it may be necessary to adopt and send it back to the second reading and to finalize it technically, legally, in order for the law to be signed, yes, rather than working on the basket. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u78	Please, National Deputy Shevchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u79	Dear colleagues, it is certainly surprising that the leader of one faction already knows in advance where the veto is going to be prepared and that such an agreed position and two factions. But I'd like to talk to our colleagues. Dear National Deputies, when you come to the University or to the Phoephania, you drop your jackets with badges, you become a common disease, and you get the same flu as other diseases, if you have colds, you blush, later, if you don't treat, you get yellow until you get to the orange shade, and then you get blue. Let's not think about political arguments right now, but think about our patients, about our families in the end, about the population of Ukraine. It's an extremely important bill. Let us accept it as a whole and stop this foolish discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2009 is being voted on as a whole. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:01:33]] For 246 Decision taken. The law has been passed in general. The factions, please. Region Party – 0, "Club of Timoshenko" – 152, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" – 45, communists – 27, "Club of Lithuania" – 19, non-fractional – 3. Dear colleagues, we were about to consider with you the draft Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2010 which was due to be finalized a week ago in accordance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree. But for this moment, the project, which was to be completed in accordance with the three provisions of the Supreme Council Regulation on the introduction of the draft State Budget Act of Ukraine in accordance with the current budget code, the introduction of the Minimum Wage and Social Standards Act, as well as the removal from the draft of those rules which provide for changes in tax and social legislation, has not been finalized or reached the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So we don't have anything to look at right now, because the Cabinet of Ministers has failed to perform its constitutional function. So we have to move on to the next question of order of the day. I understand we can talk about it with a motive, but we don't have an object, we don't have a project. () [[B in m in s a l in]] Please sign up with the procedure for further work. Humenjuk Oleg Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u81	Please give Kirilenko Viácheslav Anatoliyovich the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u82	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “For Ukraine! ” Dear colleagues, our group is concerned about the outstanding issue with the 2010 State Budget. We realized yesterday that the government is not going to bring it in at all. Well, it's also a position, but it should be notified in such a case to the Supreme Council of Ukraine officially. Because if the government is not going to make a budget for the following year, it means that all discussions about fighting the flu epidemic are no more than conversation. Now, a bill has just been voted on, and 600 million dollars have been allocated to combat the epidemic. Thus, all those who are considering the budget process are fully aware that no amount is likely to be used by the government as a whole. Since 2010, if the Council approves the budget, we can adopt a comprehensive approach to this issue, as well as the financing of defence, national security, the humanitarian sphere and so forth. We want an official response from the government: will there be a budget project or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u83	Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u84	Dear Alexander Vladimirović, distinguished colleagues! The walls of this Parliamentary Hall remember various legal, political conflicts. We have a big credit history of budget adoption. There have been cases where the imperfect budget has been, when the Government has worked several times, when Parliament has received and received several times in both May and April, and in June, I think, it has been so received. But today is an unprecedented case not only in Ukraine's parliamentary practice, but also in the world's parliamentary practice, where the Government is demonstratively refusing to submit the country's main estimates to Parliament. I repeat, it is a demonstration that it refuses to submit the country's main estimates to Parliament. Why? For one purpose: to manage finance manually. And manual financial management is corruption, a corruption that has been brought up in the ranks of public policy. And all the talk about fighting corruption, they don't stand for broken money.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u85	School of Andriy Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u86	I ask you to give the floor to the deputy head of the faction Andrew Cosemiakin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u87	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! Well, first of all, I want to say that when I spoke from the faction, I stressed that the government would put the budget to the Supreme Council in a timely fashion. And by the way, he was running a budget at the right time, back in September. But there was no need to block the Supreme Council and the rostrum for two months. Then we'd be looking at it as planned. Therefore, if they come from the Committee of the High Council of Budgets and from other committees of proposals and conclusions, a budget will be prepared and a draft submitted for consideration by the Supreme Council. And to everyone else so loudly I would not recommend the word “corruption” in this room. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, I would like to ask you to put to the vote of the Supreme Council a draft decree of 5419 concerning the amendment to the Presidential Elections Act of Ukraine, as we have agreed on at the Supreme Council. Let the hall determine whether it should be delivered in the first place or in the first place.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u88	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u89	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! We have a strange situation in the work of the Supreme Council right now. A number of committees are not meeting at all. This applies to the Committee on Budgets. We've already seen what happened, thanks to the head of the committee, the deputy, that the issues are being considered. But this has a very negative impact on the situation in the state. This is where the trees stand. For the first time, we put them in one of December 31st as a reminder of the budget. Today they have to remind everyone of the budget. Therefore, the conclusions of the Budget Committee, as provided for by the National Budget Code, are needed. That's the first one. The other one. Today's the day of the court. By warmly welcoming honest judges on that date, I would like to address colleagues who are blocking the meetings of the Justice Committee. We're supposed to have a committee tomorrow. And we need more than 300 judges by the new year.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u90	Igor Mikolaiovich's pitcher, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u91	I'm taking pictures.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u92	National MP Suškević, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u93	Please give the floor to the national deputy Kozemiakin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u94	Alexander Volodymyrovich, I would like to ask you once again under the transcript to implement the decision of the Conciliation Council. By the way, you yourself have proposed a regulatory rule, you have to determine the Supreme Council Hall -- you have to put it in first place, or you don't. Please, this is 5419. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u95	The time is up for making suggestions, finished. Dear colleagues, there is one suggestion regarding our further work that the draft Law 5419 should be scheduled. I was told by the Supreme Council's apparatus that this bill was registered on December 8. The committee's decisions on this issue and the conclusions of the Scientific and Scientific Administration have not been reached. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm asking my colleagues not to scream, and I just heard what the Supreme Council of Ukraine told me. Please, the microphone of the People's Deputy Bodnar.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u96	Olga Bodnar, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. I want to report that the conclusion of the Scientific and Expert Office, as well as the committee meeting with a positive conclusion on this bill, was already a condition for yesterday morning, and I reported to you at the Conciliation Council on this. And my colleagues are about to hand over a copy of what was handed over this morning to all the national MPs. Here's the conclusion of the Sci-Fi, and our draft decision. Thank you. Please put him to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u97	Please, Efraemov Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u98	Dear Alexander Vladimirović, I ask that you do not violate the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council, and we on the Conciliation Council disagreed with this issue. Moreover, we stressed that this bill had already been considered at this session and that it had no right to be returned to the Hall and considered. Even under the pressure of those who try to do so. Please don't break the rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u99	Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u100	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. You can vote. But there is a regulation that we should be guided, and in it, I stress once again, what the chairman of the regulatory committee said is an article that does not allow a bill that was considered and received the necessary support during the same session. You can change the number, you can suppress it in a new way, but it doesn't change the point, the point is that you're proposing to amend the President's Election Act one more time. It can go under the 10th, under the 20th number, but it's not a new project, it's a project that deals with the legislative issue of the President's election. Last plenary week this bill, if I'm not mistaken, none of the amendments to the bill or part only received the necessary support, and the committee head himself asked to withdraw it for further work. Please work hard and come back. From this project.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u101	National Deputy Sas, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u102	Thank you. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! As for the rules of the Rules, the rights and heads of the Regulatory Committee, and Adam Ivanovich. But I remind my colleagues that there is no Supreme Council regulation today, it is declared unconstitutional, so in its activities the Supreme Council can only govern the Constitution, and in accordance with the Constitution decisions of the Supreme Council are taken by vote. If most of the constitution has supported a proposal, and the proposals have come forward, you put them to the vote, then the question can be considered. If not, then the Supreme Council will not consider them, and the Rules will have to be adopted and governed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u103	People's MP Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u104	Thank you. Yuri Klukkowski, “Our Ukraine”. I really like the speeches by Ukrainian national deputies, which remind me of the situation of Stalin’s criticism of some literary works: I did not read, but I disagree. The reader, and this is true of Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, who is honored by me, should see that this bill otherwise regulates the corresponding changes compared with those proposed in the previous edition. It is quite different both by its content and by the scope of the proposed amendments. I would like to remind you that the Supreme Council, in the context of a regulation that is not in place today, has set a precedent when one of the bills amending the Constitution in the spring of 2004 was rejected, and the other, declared by the Constitutional Court to be the same as the contents, but under another number, was considered and adopted in the first reading after two months, although the Constitution requires that such a bill be tabled only in the next summons. That's why I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u105	Dear colleagues. Complete, please, Yuri Bogdanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u106	Therefore, I very much ask those who want to falsify the election of the President of Ukraine not to engage in hooks, but to allow the Supreme Council to decide: do not support this bill – and it will not be, but give it the opportunity to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u107	Dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts. The replica. Please, Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u108	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Well, the people's deputy Martinyuk blames him for not reading the laws, it's very, very difficult. So take your word back. That's the first one. The other one. This is not just about the first reading. And in any situation, if even now this law is going to be considered and it's going to go through first reading, it's going to go to second reading. And all the authors of the amendments that we have spent two days have the right to make, and they will. And I'm going to make the second reading of those amendments that I think are necessary. So, one thing that's being proposed so far, and the other is what's going to end this bill. So please, not for the first time in our first class. And please don't make any excuses. Because if everyone else were to read laws like Martinyuk, there would be much more order in the session hall and in the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u109	Dear colleagues, we have completed our conversation. We have a proposal to include 5429 in the schedule for the current week. Now I've been told that we've reached the Supreme Council of Ukraine's decision of the committee and the conclusion of the scientific management. They are now preparing for circulation, they will be distributed and distributed to the Ukrainian national deputies. If anyone has one. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you not to raise the papers that you took on the committee that was obviously preparing. Because if you're going to say now that the head of the apparatus doesn't know what's going on, I think you're wrong. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to include the draft Law 5419 in this week's meeting schedule. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:17:13]] For 229 Decision taken. A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws to simplify business conditions in Ukraine is being announced for consideration. Registration number 5235. Reports Gacko Valerius Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u110	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship at its meeting on 10 November 2009 considered a comparative table to the draft Ukrainian Act amending some of the laws on simplifying business conditions in Ukraine, adopted on 4 November this year on a basis. [[Registration number 5235]] The bill aims at overcoming economic crises and minimizing the impact of the financial crisis on small and medium-sized enterprises within the framework of public policies to promote enterprise development, reducing the number of economic activities that require licensing. Thirty-seven comments and suggestions have been submitted to the bill by the Ukrainian people’s deputies, 18 of which are included. The committee agreed with the comments made by the people’s deputies: Tomenko, Carmazin, Martinyuk, Seminog, Jury, Pisarenko, and others. Maintaining licenses for these types of farming activities will build melioration buildings and repair and reconstruction of historical monuments. The members of the committee invite the National Deputies to support the proposals of the drafters of the bill on the regulation of the legal basis of supply, the issuance of documents of a permissive nature and the transparency of the issuance of individual types of documents of a permissive nature, the reduction of allowable procedures in the conduct of economic operators, namely the reduction in the number of commercial activities subject to licensing. Consolidation of the long - term rent of state and municipal property is no less than five years and other proposals aimed at supporting operators. In view of the foregoing, the committee decided to amend some legislative acts to minimize the impact of the financial crisis on economic operators and propose that the Supreme Council of Ukraine consider it as a law. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u111	Dear colleagues! We have a committee decision, and we have 37 amendments that have been proposed for consideration. I propose that we consider amendments that the committee does not recommend to approve and consider the arguments of the legislators who suggested that they be considered and voted on if they insist. Then consider the amendments that the committee recommends to take into account if the insistence of deputies is also determined by voting on them. And then you have to decide on the adoption of the bill in the second reading and in general. Is there no objection to such a procedure in the second reading? Roger that. Please, the amendments that have been rejected, the first amendment of the People’s Deputy Pisarenko. The Ukrainian National MP insists. Does not insist on taking into account this amendment. Amendment number 8, People's Deputy Carmazin. Is the National MP insisting? Don't insist. Amendment number 10. People's Department of Pisarenko. Don't insist. Amendment number 12. People's Department of Pisarenko. Don't insist. Amendment number 13. People's Deputy Carmazin. He insists. Please, the microphone of the People's Deputy Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u112	Yuri Carmazin. I'd like to understand the committee's opinion, maybe I would agree with the argument. The point is, with this amendment, I propose that part of the bill be supplemented by a new sub-item of this content. Part one, article 19 of the Law on the licensing of certain types of agricultural activity, is to be laid out in such an edition. Information contained in a single license plate is available, except for licensees such as their passports, address and residence, legal address, bank props, identification codes or numbers. A specially authorized public registration authority, at the expense of the funds allocated to it, provides day-to-day free access to all Internet users, which is posted on the official website of this body of the database with information of an open nature, which is entered into a single national register. Information is being updated in real time. So I would think that this is going to be the norm of the law and here, as it says, that it's regulated by another law, but another law about.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u113	Please, Valery Petrovich, your argument.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u114	The Legal Authority has given us evidence that this amendment is regulated by Law No. 1571 of 25.06. 09.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u115	Amendment number 13. People’s deputies, Karmazin, are voting. I'd like to make a statement. Take off the vote, the national deputy has reconsidered, he refuses. Number 14 repairs. People's Department of Pisarenko. He doesn't insist. Number 15. National MP Pisarenko. I see he's not insisting. Same as 16th. Pisarenko doesn't insist. And the 17th. Pisarenko doesn't insist. Number 18. Correction of the Plitnikov People’s Deputy. Is the MP insisting on the argument? Don't insist. 19th Amendment. People's Deputy Crutz. Is the MP insisting? Don't insist. Amendment number 20 of People's Deputies Pisarenko. Don't insist. 23 People's Deputies, Pisarenko. He doesn't insist either. 31 People's Deputies, Pisarenko. Don't insist. 32 People's Deputies of Carmazin. Please, the microphone of the People's Deputy Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u116	Yuri Carmazin. I would like to say again, there is no argument about deviation, and the substance of the amendment is that in article 14 of the Ukrainian Act on the Protection of Animals from Cruel Conduct, write down and put it in the following wording: “Licensing is linked to the use and maintenance of domestic animals. Licensing, according to the law, is subject to: (1) The breeding of dogs, exotic and decorative animals in tribal breeders; ( 2) Training dogs; 3. training of professionals in the above areas.” I think it's going to be more orderly in the country, because right now, that's what's going on in the vachanalia. I didn't see why the committee was motivated by this proposal, whether it would agree that it should be supported, because it's just a negative mark. I'd like to hear a thought. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u117	Please, Valery Petrovich, the committee's argument.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u118	This issue has been discussed and there has been a great deal of discussion on this issue. We therefore did not come to the Committee's opinion, so there is a request for a vote to be made in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u119	Amendment No. 32 of the Karmazin People’s Deputies applies to the vote. Please Identify [[11:25:10]] For-22. No correction supported. 33 Amendment of the People’s Deputy Pisarenko, he does not insist on it. 35th National MP Pisarenko does not insist. 36th National MP Pisarenko does not insist. 37th National MP Pisarenko does not insist. So, respectable colleagues, now, according to the amendments that are taken into account. Is there a objection to the Committee's revision number 2? Number 2, is there a denial? None. At the 3rd Amendment of the People's Deputies of Tomenk, Karmazin, the Committee recommends that we consider the National Deputy of Žebrovski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, in the 3rd Amendment, one of the sub-items to be excluded is the amendment of the deputies Tomenka and Karmazin, which is described. What was predicted was that there would now be no permit from the architectural heritage for the construction of objects, including agricultural objects. And today, what is the situation? The situation is that independently it is an architectural heritage, there is no, but the whole queues stand and, let's say, such created “income places” in the administrations of culture, in every area, in the reservation and in fact every person who wants to create a business or something should get this permission. I understand that such matters need to be settled. But if we send all the subjects and just the individuals to get permission, we create a sufficiently serious corrupt scheme. I'd like to ask you a question about getting permission from the architectural heritage to rule out this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u121	So you're suggesting partial consideration of the amendment in exchange for the individual suggestions you've made? Please rediscover the exact parts and sentences that are. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, we will now be determined by voting. Because this is a very brief proposal. It refers to the fact that in sub-paragraph 3 of the first digit “69” delete, but this leads to a series of subsequent decisions. So I propose now, if there is no objection to the national MPs, to put to the vote the proposal of the national deputy of Žebrovsky. The proposal of the national deputy, Zebrovsky. If it's supported, then we're going to vote on amendment number three, edited by the national deputy of Žebrovsky. I'm betting on the vote on the proposal of the people's representative of Zebrovsky to remove part of the proposals from Amendment 3. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:28:31]] For-151 Not supported. Amendments 3 to the legislative initiative of the national deputies Tomenka and Karmazin are put to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:28:56]] For-69 No correction supported. Amendment number 5. Is there a miscalculation? None. Amendment number nine. Is there any objection to the editorial process proposed by the committee? None. Amendment 11. Is there any objection to having the committee edited? None. Amendment number 12, and this one is rejected. Amendment number 21. Is there a miscalculation? None. 22nd. Is there a denial? None. 24th. Is there a denial? None. 27th. There's a denial. Please, the microphone of the People's Deputy Lapina.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u122	People’s MP Lapina, group “For Ukraine! ” I want to point out that this Amendment 27 is in line with the newly unsupported Hall Amendment number 3. That's actually where we didn't support, more faithfully, we supported the removal of this, this type of license from the Licensing Act, and now we have to harmonize it with the Cultural Heritage Act. And actually, then we have to settle this amendment, or there will be a conflict between the two laws, the Licensing Act and the Cultural Heritage Act. So this is a related amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u123	Amendment No. 27 shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:31:08]] For-0 Amendment No. 27 recommended by the committee is not supported. 34th Amendment. Is there a miscalculation? None. So we've looked at all of the amendments with you. The two amendments recommended by the committee were not supported by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I am voting on the second reading of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on simplifying business conditions in Ukraine. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:32:06]] For 325 Decision taken. Dear Valerius Petrovich, in view of the fact that the two amendments proposed by the committee were not supported, whether it was necessary to bring into line the text that was now adopted in the second reading for. You don't? There was no balance here. None. I'm betting on a vote on acceptance as a whole as a law. What? Is there a problem? Please, the microphone of the People's Deputy Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u124	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! Anyone who has a license plate can see on two pages the comments of the Chief Legal Authority. Their general conclusion is that the bill needs substantial work to be done to take into account management's observations and re-reading. That's the first one. The other one. He foresees, in particular, that, contrary to the requirements of article 116, paragraph 5, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the section “Ending Positions” violates constitutional requirements. So I don't think it's possible to vote in this way for the adoption of the law, it needs to be redrafted. I realize there's no regulation right now, but, Alexander Volodymyrovich, we can't help but draw the legal conclusion that some positions should be reconsidered. I think it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u125	Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u126	Dear Alexander Vladimirović, distinguished colleagues! Well, if lawyers don't comment, then the state has to cut and close. They work to make comments. That's the first one. Second. The bill has been completed, has been processed and placed in the hall on several occasions, working groups, meetings with entrepreneurs, and small businesses. I think we've come up with a balanced version of the law. Those two articles, which were deleted, did not balance the text of the law. Therefore, according to the procedure and practice in force in Parliament, without even referring to the rules, there is every reason for the adoption of the law as a whole, for the President to sign and enter into force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u127	National deputy, Žebrovsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u128	Dear colleagues, there is no limit to perfection, we can improve as much as possible. But putting off what makes it easier to do business, especially in times of crisis, but it's actually one of the key anti-crisis laws. And that's where we had to start, let the business get a job, create jobs, not wait years for a license or a license. This depends on jobs, wages and the social status of the people. I suggest you assign a profile committee to reconcile, maybe some inaccuracies in this mode, but accept now as a whole. In general, some adjustments may need to be taken with a commission, but we have had this practice. But the law must be passed in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u129	Valery Petrovich, please, your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u130	Agreed, agreed.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u131	I am betting on voting for adoption as a whole as a bill of the bill amending certain Ukrainian laws on simplifying business conditions in Ukraine. Registration number 5235. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:36:04]] For 349 The law has been passed in general. Thank you. Please have a seat. A draft Law amending certain Ukrainian laws on the provision of disabled persons by automobiles is being announced for consideration. Registration number 2740. Reports Valeriy Mikhailovich Suškevitch. Please turn on Valery Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u132	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I'd like to remind you of the substance of the bill, 2740. These include cases involving the provision of public transportation or humanitarian assistance for disabled persons to address the problem of the situation of a deceased disabled person in the family. The question is to leave this car in the family when the disabled recipient himself died. I repeat, in two cases, when this car is released by the state and when this car is received as humanitarian aid. The Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons to carry out the Head’s mandate at its meeting considered the bill in both the first and second readings. I considered the amendments that came to the committee. There were 23 suggestions and amendments that were included in the compare table. Of these, 12 are taken into account, 2 are partially counted, and 9 amendments are rejected. I ask you to support this law in a second reading, taking into account the proposals and decisions of the Supreme Council Committee in the matters of pensioners, veterans and disabled persons, and to regulate this rule in order to ensure that this car is still available in the family of a dead invalid. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u133	Thank you, Valery Mikhailovich. Please leave the reporter's microphone on. Is that the procedure under which we adopted the previous draft law for consideration of this project? Is there no objection? If not, then according to the amendments that are rejected by the committee, which the committee does not propose to consider. 1 amendment of the People's Deputy of Carmazin. Is the MP insisting? Please, the microphone of the People's Deputy Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u134	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think the content of the law corresponds to the name that is currently being proposed. If you look at the substance of the amendments, you'll see they're not just about providing disabled cars. Therefore, I propose the title of the law: “On the basis of social protection for persons with limited physical capacity in Ukraine”. I deliberately throw the word “disabled” out of here because they are citizens of Ukraine, but who have limited physical capacity. Yet, this is what many countries of the world call these people and treat them as citizens and care for the social protection of these people. I'd like to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u135	Please note the committee's point of view. Valerius Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u136	Thank you. Dear Yuri Anatoliyovich, thank you for your attention and your approach to those who need help as citizens of Ukraine with disabilities. I want to remind you that all the legislation in force today is defined in terms of terms such as people, citizens of Ukraine, with disabilities, or disabilities. To do that in a single law, it's going to be a non-systematic issue, and it actually does dissonance in a colossal with active legislation. Thanking you for your cooperation, I would like to point out that in order for this bill to actually work for the disabled of Ukraine, you have to leave the name that it is today. The matter of settlement is being dealt with in discussions with the public organizations of persons with disabilities today, and we will come to some agreement accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u137	Amendment No. 1 of the Karmazin People’s Deputies shall be subject to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:40:44]] For – 19 No correction supported. Amendment number 2. Yuri Anatolyevich insists on this amendment? Please, the microphone of the People's Deputy Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u138	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present part 1 of article 38 in this paper: “Disabled persons and children with disabilities are provided with free of charge or with benefits from socio-economic and medical services, technical and other means of rehabilitation, means of transport, prosthetic or orthopaedic devices — this was not in the previous amendment — surdotechnic devices, mobile phones, faxes and computers for written communication, etc., medical devices, individual devices, eye prosthetics, teeth, eye sockets, eye sockets, glasses, hearing aids and voice-generating devices, endoproteuses, ubiquitses, etc. on the basis of individual rehabilitation programmes and cars. for the existence of an appropriate medical conclusion.” Because people with limited physical capacity in certain circumstances are better able to obtain prosthetics than those of the world’s leading countries, and computers, because there are already software devices that allow people who are virtually unable to move to communicate with the world: writing, painting, and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u139	Please note the committee's point of view.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u140	Thank you, Yuri Anatoliyovich, for also paying attention to the needs of the disabled, their social protection. I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members and you personally to the fact that this bill touches on the basis of its definition of the provision of wheelchairs, that is, it has a certain course of problem solving. And I also want to draw your attention to prosthetics as a broader concept, which includes prosthetics. including orthopedic products, orthopedic shoes. What concerns issues related to the provision of faxes, computers, this issue is being prepared today in accordance with the Law on the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities, it is being determined in substance and will be proposed in another edition, another bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u141	Amendment No. 2 of the Karmazin People’s Deputy takes the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:43:11]] For-9 No correction supported. 3rd Amendment, People's Deputies Karpuk. Is the National MP insisting? Don't insist. Number five, also National Deputy Karpuk. He doesn't insist either. 4th Amendment, by Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich, is part of the committee. Adam Ivanovich, we will first conclude as we have agreed: after which the committee recommends not to count and then return to this amendment. 6th Amendment, People's Deputy Tarasjuk Boris Ivanovich. Don't insist. 11th Amendment, People's Deputy Martinjuk Adam Ivanovich. Adam Ivanovich, do you insist on the argument 11 of the amendment? Please record Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u142	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, literally a few words about the substance of the amendments I make and the essence of this law. It is proposed that the Cabinet of Ministers should now set up instead of the law -- and this is established only by law -- to transfer this right to the Cabinet of Ministers: to sell cars in the manual. So if a disabled person wants to keep a car, he has to pay for this car: what was being transported from abroad, if it was humanitarian aid, and so on and so forth. So basically, a disabled person gets not a free means of transport, but a disabled person has to pay sometimes even an amount that goes beyond the cost of a car, especially if it goes abroad. And so if you don't have the 4th and the 11th amendment counted, and that means what it means.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u143	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u144	on the status of war veterans, then we can't support such a law. Please support Amendment 11.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u145	Amendment No. 11 of the Martiniuk People’s Deputy is subject to a vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:45:59]] For-123 No correction supported. Amendment No. 18 of the People's Deputies of Carmazin. Is the National MP insisting? He doesn't insist. Amendment No. 19 of the People's Deputies of Karpuk. Don't insist. 20 Amendment of the People's Deputy of Tarasyuk. Don't insist. So we've now considered with you amendments that the committee recommended not to take into account. And now let's define what amendments the committee recommends to take into account or take into account in part in another edition. The first such amendment is the number 4 of the people's MP Martinyuk. Please, a microphone for Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u146	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Respectful colleagues and listening disabled ones! I'm gonna say it again and again. A good, noble goal: It's like we're trying to help you. But this is supposed to be done by the drafters of the bill, and all of the amendments that have been made to improve this situation have not been taken into account by the profile committee, and this good intentions will end up with you getting a car even more expensive sometimes than it costs, the initial cost. [[The bill's author is the Cabinet of Ministers]] This is about not setting conditions for the Cabinet of Ministers, but just to set order, on the basis of what is and how it is sold, it remains, more specifically, this car in a wheelchair. Here, too, it is suggested that he set conditions, or that he should pay everything past and beyond taxes and so on and so forth. So please support the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u147	Amendment number four, People's MP Martinyuk, as proposed by the Ukrainian People's Deputy. Put to the vote, please identify yourself. [[11:48:24]] For 201 Not supported in this edition. Adam Ivanovich, do you agree that there will be consideration in this editorial as suggested by the committee? I don't think so. Then the vote is amended by number four, please the microphone of the People’s Deputy Suškević argument from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u148	Thank you. Alexander Volodymyrovich! I want to take into account the position of respectable Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk at the point. in sub-paragraph 22, paragraph 4, where it is written “in order and under conditions defined by the Cabinet of Ministers”, the word “conditions” can be removed, then there is an absolute compromise situation that the Cabinet determines only order. And then we accept the normal situation. I think it's going to be a normal choice to vote, it's going to remove the "conditions," all the more so as to point out the scientific expertise. And then, in principle, the legislative standards that are defined are adopted and we adopt the law, taking into account the position of Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u149	The proposal by the head of the Committee of People's Deputies of Suškević to delete the word “conditions” from amendment number four shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:50.]] For 113 Not supported. The amendment number four, as proposed in the right column, is put to the vote, please identify yourself. [[11:50:22]] For-126 Not supported. Amendment number seven, National Deputy Suškević, is there a miscalculation? There's no objection. Amendment number 8. Is there a miscalculation? There's no objection. Amendment number nine. Does the National MP of Seminog agree with the committee’s proposal or not? It's okay. Does one of the Ukrainian national deputies insist on considering this amendment? No, it's not. 10th Amendment. Is there a miscalculation? There's no objection. 11th. That's what we've been looking at. 12th Amendment. People's deputy Karpuk. Is there any objection to taking this amendment into account? There's no objection. Amendment number 13. People's Deputy Carmazin. Is there a miscalculation? There's no objection. 14th Amendment. Is there a denial of consideration? None. 15th. Is there a denial? There's no objection. 16th. Is there a denial? There's no objection. 17th. Is there a denial? There's no objection. 21st. Is there any objection to taking this amendment into account? None. 22nd. Is there a denial? None. 23rd. There's no objection. So we've considered with you all of the amendments proposed to this bill. I am voting on the second reading of the draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the provision of disabled persons by cars]] [[Registration number 2740]] I'd like to make a statement. [[11:53:00]] For-140. Not supported. Please, National Deputy Suškević, your offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u150	Dear colleagues, I want to address the factions and Communists, and the Party of Regions, on the basis that this bill is needed for the people, and it really deals with all the issues that are being resolved today in order for a disabled car to remain in the family. The question of what was on the terms is proposed and not voted for. I call for us to go back to the vote and make sure that this bill is passed. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u151	Please, People's Deputy Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u152	Thank you! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine, Your Honor! You know, it's a very important law, and today it's because there's no legal norm, what to do with a car that's received through a social security system, or through a fund from an accident, or as a humanitarian aid, what to do with that car in case of a disabled person's death. And in view of the fact that this law overloads the powers of the Cabinet of Ministers because conditions are to be determined by law. The Cabinet of Ministers should regulate only the order, or procedure, in which way this is done. And imagine a car that's 6 years old, imported as a humanitarian aid and a rule that a disabled person needs to use it for more than 10 years. He died and used it for nine years, and for 15 years his real price has been $200, and families say we'll leave it to you if you pay $2,000 in taxes and taxes. This is the law at the time of import.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u153	Please complete, considering that the money unit in Ukraine is a bracelet.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u154	Thank you. Dear colleagues, in view of the fact that this law, as voted in, does not solve the problem, we cannot vote in favour of this law, for it will then further stimulate abuse in this area, which is enough. I propose that this law be sent back to read again.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u155	Cibenko Peter Stepanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u156	Thank you, Communist faction, head of the Ukrainian Veterans' Council, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, I propose on behalf of the faction of the Company of Ukraine, I propose to return to the vote on this document. Indeed, the law must be preserved, but it must be preserved in the light of the amendments 4 and 11 made by Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk. Because let's think about what we're doing! We suggest that we give the disabled the right to leave the car in the family, but with such a burden, the disabled will give it up. Why such a right that a disabled person would refuse? So, really, if a car, let's say, 8-9 years old, could be that its residual cost would be lower than those taxes and the congregations that the disabled should pay. So I propose to re-vote this law, but with amendments 4 and 11 made by the National MP Martinyuk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u157	Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u158	Oleg Zarubinsky's Block of Lithuania. Dear colleagues, the question here is simple enough. Or we're moving away from further work on this bill, and the question remains completely unresolved, because I see that only 140 deputies voted, unfortunately, just 140 deputies, and I don't know when, frankly, we can go back to this idea of the legislature to solve this problem. That's why I don't think that's going to end, and that's going to be effective if we're going to vote on this bill, taking into account any amendments. Obviously, a second reading is absolutely objective in this situation. I think that the head of the committee should officially make such a proposal so that the right and correct legislative initiative can be better formed and found support in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u159	Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u160	Dear Alexander Vladimirovic, distinguished colleagues, the Party of the Regions for having adopted the bill today, but in such a way that those who work under the law do not mock us and, in the last few words, do not call on us. And it would be fair if we adopted a bill without amendments to 4, 11 by Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk. Therefore, in order to enact the law there is a proposal to return and re-vote Amendments 4 and 11 of Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, if they are voted on, then a law can be passed in general and people will only thank us for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u161	Please make an offer now to the head of the committee Valery Mikhailovich Suškević.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u162	Dear colleagues, the meaning of what was said is. The only thing here is said to be the very serious work of law enforcement agencies so that there is no abuse. I'm saying what, what kind of situation might be. Perhaps my grandfather was given a car, and my grandfather was brought to a state where he could take the car and everything, and then the car transited to another person who was said to have provided for the maintenance of another person’s car. There is no doubt that there is danger. In this regard, it was suggested that the appropriate authorities provide a warning on these two articles. But, I think, so let's go back and save the bill, get back to the vote on Amendments 4 and 11. The only thing that the 11th amendment really means is what the Law on the Status of War Veterans provides and guarantees their social protection, and I would leave 22 articles in the text that are proposed by the Committee and 4 to vote and support, to go back to the vote and support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u163	Honorary colleagues, the proposals made by the national deputies of Cibenk, Chechtov and Suskević regarding the return of the 4th and 11th people’s deputies of Martinyuk are put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. Go back to making decisions on Amendments 4, 11. [[11:59:57]] For 312 We're back. Please go back to Amendment 4. Amendment 4 of Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, edited by the national deputy Martinyuk, is subject to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:00:29]] For 319 Decision taken. The correction is counted. Amendment No. 11 of the Martinyuk People's Deputy. Puts the vote to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:00:55.]] For 313 The amendment is supported. A motion for a return to the adoption of a second reading bill is put to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:01:19]] For 316 We're back. A motion for adoption is put to the vote in the second reading and generally as a law. a project to amend some Ukrainian legislation on the provision of disabled persons by cars. Registration number 2740. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:01:52]] For 342 The law has been passed in general. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 32 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u164	A draft Act supplementing the Ukrainian Act on Fundamentals for the Social Protection of Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 4607]] Reported to the Deputy Minister for Housing and Utilities Lototic Orestes Bogdanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u165	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! Your opinion is proposed by the Government Act on the Complementation of the Law on the Fundamentals of Social Protection for Persons with Disabilities. The draft is intended to supplement the law with a separate article of this content. “The owners of parking lots provide for the provision and provision of special parking spaces for general and specialized vehicles, which carry persons with disabilities for 10 per cent of the total, but not less than one vehicle marked with appropriate road signs and markings. There is no pay for the use of parking spaces for the designated means of transport. The adoption of the bill will facilitate access by persons with limited access to objects of general use. The government wants to support the bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u166	The question is, please report to the reporter. People's Deputy Cranwall.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u167	Dear reporter, I wanted to clarify. It's about parking because we don't know exactly what their status is, about parking a short-term stay, let's say there's a central part of the city, areas close to certain establishments, and so on, or the parking spaces that are actually the same status, where cars are treated for a long time, where they're often fixed by a particular car, where sometimes there's some kind of way of buying out areas in these parking lots for a particular car, where prices are already down. Is it just the first one, or can the second one be applied?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u168	It's just the first one, that's parking spaces, parking spaces for the temporary stay of cars.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u169	National Deputy Ariev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u170	Thank you. Dear reporter, would you please tell us whether this law provides for measures to influence private parking owners who may theoretically refuse to provide such services free of charge to disabled persons? Although on my part, I must point out that the bill is essential. And this is a perfectly normal European norm to support people with limited capabilities. This is what is done in all the civilized world. But unfortunately, we don't have all the private, private parking owners, they're civilized and they can do some sabotage. How do you want to avoid such opportunities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u171	The law provides for a more faithful distribution of all parking spaces, depending on the form of ownership, including private ones. Under this law, the government will adopt rules for parking vehicles, which are already provided for, and by the way, it is accepted, where the responsibility of those who do not comply with these rules, including this law, is laid down.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u172	Thank you, Orestes Bogdanovich, please sit down. The report from the committee is Valeriy Mikhailovich Suškević. Please turn on the microphone of the People’s Deputy Suškević.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u173	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues! I want to thank the government for this very timely bill. You know, that's the situation. He does not support disabled people as much as he determines the rights of people who are moving on cars today, and they cannot put their car on the stand. Therefore, the bill proposes that the owners of parking lots be obliged to provide for the provision and arrangement of special parking spaces for general and special vehicles carrying persons with disabilities. I'm not just paying attention to people with disabilities who drive their own car, but there's a car, like a van that carries people with disabilities, a specialized car. They also have a place that specializes in parking. At least 10 percent or at least one location respectively if the number is resolved within 10 parking spaces. The committee at its meeting considered and supported a legislative proposal by the government, such as one aimed at improving the solution of the rights of persons with disabilities. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the government has already, on December 3, at its meeting, worked out an appropriate regulation that regulates parking for people with disabilities in Ukraine, and it is also harmonised in what touches this bill. I would like to point out that there is a point of view from members of the committee about what the Ariev People’s Deputy State has said, which may need to be considered regarding the issue of changes in legislation, such as the Code of Administrative Offences regarding the responsibility for noncompliance. Unfortunately, the situation is that the level of our citizens' culture is sometimes such that they can put in these places, which are reserved for disabled cars, cars and ordinary cars. And that's going to be a problem, of course, given the perspective of the problem. So this is actually some of the issues that have been resolved at the level of the Cabinet of Ministers' decrees, but certainly today, committee members feel that changes in the legislation, such as the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences, should be made. What I'm saying is that the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, by making some remarks, proposes to adopt the bill as a basis, and we ask that you support this bill, and it is supported by a committee of profile. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u174	Any questions for Valery Mikhailovich? No questions asked. Please sign up for the discussion. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u175	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National MPs, the language in this law, in the government bill, I think it's clear to everyone what it means to each one. At least 10 percent of the total number of parking spaces for disabled cars was provided for each parking lot. In all of them, our colleague Arjev spoke about the fact that all civilized European countries have predicted these places. That doesn't mean they don't pay, we're offered by law to use the parking space of this vehicle to make sure the pay doesn't work. [[I mean, abroad.]] One question arises: What is the turn of these places? But I think it's not the norm of this law, and I think that this law is because it has a small subject of regulation and because it is actually here in the Scientific and Experimental Authority that there is only a question about the definition of a “stand” and I think that the expanded interpretation here should not be given as proposed in the law right now, that it is a “car parking device” and that it can be specified, that it can be written “for a temporary parking”, it can not be done. I propose not to do so, but to adopt this bill as a basis, and it can be accepted as a whole, because it's a 30-prim article. It is extremely short and understood completely by all Ukrainian citizens. This is going to be the first step towards civilization, and when guests from all over the world come to us on the Euro-2012, they'll see that we have these places all set up, and they exist. I think that's another proof that Ukraine is becoming a civilized country, so I'm making a proposal and I want to make a statement on this and a committee head, as he thinks about it, so that this bill should be adopted in the first and second readings, in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u176	Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u177	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies! The bill proposes to supplement the Ukrainian Law on Fundamentals for the Social Protection of Disabled Persons in Ukraine with a requirement to provide the owners of the facilities for parking transport, dedicating and equipping special parking spaces for general and special purpose vehicles carrying persons with disabilities for 10 per cent of the total quantity, but not less than one vehicle, with appropriate road signs and markings. In doing so, it is not possible to make use of the parking space for the designated means of transport. We fully support that. But by supporting the initiative, we are focusing on one point: the purpose of clarifying the bill's terminology, particularly with regard to the term "stand", since the term "stand" is not clearly regulated by the current legislation. Under the term “stand” you can mean both a place for long-term storage of cars and a specially equipped parking space for motor vehicles, a place defined by the local self-government authority for parking cars. In general, the faction of the Party of the Regions supports this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u178	The discussion is over. Final word, please, Orest Bogdanovich. Yes, yes, please turn the microphone on in your bed. Press the button there.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u179	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your support. Indeed, this bill is designed to improve the living conditions of our people with limited possibilities. And we're continuing to work, including with the profile committee, to make changes to other legislative acts that will apply exactly to the responsibility for failing to comply with those standards that are being proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u180	It's a closing statement. Valeriy Mihajlovich Suškević.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u181	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, there was a proposal by the national MP Carmazin for the adoption of this bill as a whole. There is only one observation regarding the terminology of the word “stand”. The suggestion is that, given the clarification of this term, together with the Ministry of Housing and Utilities, this bill should really be adopted in general, if the room doesn't deny it. I think it would be an effective, rapid approach to the solution of this right of a disabled person to move on the infrastructure of cities and settlement sites of Ukraine. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u182	Thank you. It deals with the adoption vote in the first reading of the draft Act supplementing the Ukrainian Act on Fundamentals for the Social Protection of Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine, registration number 4607. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:46:03]] For 282 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, National Deputy Carmazin has proposed that this draft law be adopted as a whole. Do national deputies have reservations about acceptance as a whole? There's a denial. Please, Terjehohin Sergey Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u183	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this law does not solve all issues of disabled parking in a comprehensive manner. I just want to point out that we have this local parking tax. So if you don't make it into this law, it's going to be like this: places are going to be allocated, but parking fees are going to be managed as a tax, because we haven't made appropriate changes to the Local Taxes and Congregations Act. There is therefore a request to expedite the preparation of this law for second reading. And look, the developers, please pay attention to this problem that I've just heard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u184	Thank you. Since there is one objection, we do not put the second reading to the vote. Please. As soon as the committee is ready, I think we'll take a look at the Conciliation Council immediately. Dear Valery Mikhailovich, we have concluded our consideration. In general, we will not vote. Dear colleagues, we now have draft number 3137 on the agenda for the amendment of the Ukrainian Tax System Act. Terjehohin Sergey Anatoliyovich reports. Please, Sergey Anatolyovich Teryohin, I invite you to report. Turn on the microphone of Deputy Teryochin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u185	Dear Lord Chairman! You know very well that, as the author of the bill, I ask the Supreme Council to withdraw this bill in view of the fact that it needs further consultations, in line with the draft Supreme Council Rules that are being developed on another committee. [[My letter lies before you]] This was given to you, and on many occasions I spoke about it on the Conciliation Council. And I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy has submitted 77 bills to the Supreme Council. We asked that more than two thirds of these bills have been submitted before this one. We asked for these bills in accordance with the Rules. Somehow this project, which is now completely out of date, is treating the Supreme Council and somehow we're loading our work, and others are not. This again speaks of the imperfections of planning our work. So please remove this bill as the author.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u186	Dear National Deputies! I'm informing you that all the projects, including this, are on the schedule of meetings solely for the submission of a profile committee and for the support of the leaders of the factions of Parliament. If the situation has changed, approaches have changed, the National MP has the power to make his proposal, and once the draft is included in the schedule, the decision to withdraw it is taken by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I am voting on the proposal by the legislator of the national MP Teryochin to call off the bill. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:50:15.]] For-138 The decision is not taken. So Sergey Anatolyovich, you have something to complete to report or not. If there is no need to report anything else, is there a need to discuss the draft law? Dear colleagues, is there a need? None. If there is no need to discuss it, I am voting on the adoption of the draft Tax Law in the first reading. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:51:02]] For 104 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Dear colleagues, it is now suggested that the issue of inclusion in the agenda and adoption of the decision of Project 5237, which concerns amendments to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget of Ukraine, be considered this year. At the same time, I am informing you that I have now received a request from four Ukrainian national deputies: Zarubinski, Ephraim, Kozemyakina and Martinique to consider also the possibility of including in today's schedule a question that we have for consideration on Thursday, which concerns two laws on amending the State budget for Ukraine, which concerns ensuring financial stability of coal enterprises and the issue of settling debt for electricity consumption. [[5394 and 5395]] Dear colleagues, if there's no objection, I'll make these proposals in turn. First proposal for the inclusion in the agenda and the adoption of a decision on a draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2009. [[Registration number 5237]] I'd like to make a statement. [[12:52:50]] For 318 Decision taken. I now propose to include in the agenda and to adopt a decision on the draft amendment to the Ukrainian Act on Ukraine's 2009 State Budget. [[Registration number 5394]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:53:20]] For 321 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda and to take decisions on the draft Act amending the Ukraine Act on Ukraine’s 2009 State Budget. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:53:50]] For 295 Decision taken. The draft Act “On Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2009” is being announced for consideration. [[on the increase in expenditure on the treatment of citizens abroad]] Registration number 5237. This is Mikola Ivanovich Derkac reporting, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u187	Dear Head, distinguished national deputies, invited! Submitted to your consideration by the People's Deputies, Litvin Volodymyr Mihajlovich and I have drafted a bill amending the 2009 Act on the State Budget of Ukraine, under number 5237, for the purpose of taking action to address the critical situation of the treatment of children with cancer abroad. According to the Ministry of Health to date, 49 patients are in need of life - threatening treatment abroad, of whom 25 are children, who have been given a positive decision on the board of the Ukrainian Ministry of Health on the referral of Ukrainian citizens to treatment abroad. The 2009 State Budget of the Ministry of Health provides 7.9 million dollars for this purpose, with a total need for 30 million dollars for the current year. The budget is currently fully budgeted. However, some children died without waiting for their turn. It is therefore proposed that the budget allocations for this goal be increased by 22 million dollars. The source of additional expenditure is an increase in the export duty by an appropriate amount. This source is realistic, since the annual plan for this tax to come to the general budget of the state budget for 90.3 million dollars has been revised in 11 months of the current year. Thus, the specified bill is balanced with regard to the budgetary indicators. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council generally supports the introduction of a legislative proposal, but considers it appropriate to draw the conclusion of the Government and of the Minfin to the bill. The Ministry of Finance, in its expert opinion, notes that there is no objection to the adoption of the bill. The Committee on Budget Issues, at its meeting on 20 October, considered the issue and approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council a bill number 5237. The adoption of the bill will provide an opportunity to provide surgery for sick children in need of bone marrow transplantation and are in line with the Ministry of Health. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u188	Please write the question to Nikola Ivanovich. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u189	Yuri Carmazin. I thank you very much for finding, Mikola Ivanovich, the source, because we all knew long ago that these measures should be funded. But what we found was the source of the replenishment just now, because last year, when we predicted 7.9 million dollars, we obviously didn't grant it, but we knew that we had a lot and maybe even more. That's why I'd like to. The essence of my question is this: why can't we accept this manny bill? Do you make such a suggestion that we accept it as a whole, or would it not happen again, as the Car Parking Act did, when we totally groundlessly rejected it, acceptance in the second reading. Because of this, I think that the tax rule is a completely different law, or we've made changes to the Disability Act. So, what do you think? I think you can do it right now in two readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u190	Dear colleague, the question is correct. In my statement, the Committee's decision indicated what was the basis. No other decision has been taken by the Committee, so I am only guided by the decision of the Committee. If the MPs so wish, then we should give the committee and the Office the appropriate mandate to provide all the budgetary indicators so that they can be balanced, those that we have already accepted today, including them.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u191	Bachelor's Aunt Dmitry.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u192	Dear colleagues, I urge the Party of the Regions to support not only on first reading but today in general as a law, because 55 Ukrainians today are looking forward to tomorrow, whether their lives will be extended or not. Unfortunately, today we can talk about a very complex situation in the health sector and in particular the child cancer programme, which was funded by the zero Government in 2009. That is why these miserable kopecks, who are still waiting for countries like Belarus, Russia, Germany, France to heal our children and Ukrainians, are obliged to provide this money for tomorrow's treatment, unfortunately, which is not available in our country, not because we have no expertise, but because we have no equipment and because health is financed in a residual way. Therefore, it is clear to support this money to be received in other countries tomorrow.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u193	Conovaluk Valérie Illich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u194	Dear Nikolai Ivanovich, there is no doubt that the sad statistics on child mortality from cancer diseases are of concern to Ukraine, but unfortunately these problems are also of concern to Ukraine. Nikolai Ivanovich! They address indeed more serious research and funding, both in the current year and in the planning, in the financing of next year. That is why I also appeal to all colleagues, to vote in general and to send this law to the President for signature. And the question of the next plan. Today, we were provided with the results of an audit of the efficiency of the use of budgetary resources for the prevention and treatment of cancer. The Budget Committee and you personally, as Chairman of the Committee, have considered these materials in advance in order to assess the situation in general with those violations that have taken on a systemic nature that affects the health of Ukrainian citizens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u195	Thank you for asking. We got it. There will be a committee tomorrow, we will consider the drafting of the 2010 budget, and all comments will be taken into account as much as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u196	School of Andriy Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u197	Thank you. Mikolo Ivanovich, of course very well, I thought that everyone had already spoken before me and I will join that the bill should be voted on as a whole. It's short, it's smug and it's understandable. There are just predecessors from the opposition, and they were going to know that two years or three years of other guidance did not even try to allocate funds for similar treatment. So we need to learn here and continue not to repeat our mistakes, but to learn about the quality things that we are doing now. But I do have a question. Mikolo Ivanovich, how much money is available? Or is it meant to build a medical base in Ukraine, so that we can finally see the perspective in a year, in two, in three years, in five even, but that we have a powerful same medical base in Ukraine. So, I think it's an important question, and here we should answer it, I don't know, maybe create some kind of state fund that would provide a similar accumulation of funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u198	Thank you for asking. A very serious topic was raised. There's a proposal. Please form a proposal for the 2010 draft budget, when it is received, as a people's representative, as we will address these issues, including. The issue is also of concern to the Government, of course, and I think that they will hear our conversation today at the 2010 session, in the draft budget and in the Economic and Social Development Plan, should be taken into account. It's a very important question.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u199	Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u200	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear Mikola Ivanovich, the explanatory note says that these children, who are at the expense of this, I hope and hope that the funds we have allocated for their treatment are at the turn of the Ukrainian Ministry of Health. And it may not be a question for you, rather, for health care, but you may have information. Once again, how many of these children are there, all of them have passed a proper commission, and will these 22 million be enough? So that it doesn't work out that a few kids won't be able to get there and understand what the result is, they're going to have an operation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u201	The decision of the commission of the relevant Ministry of Health is an incarceration of 25 children who must be treated abroad by the end of the year. And that amount, which is proposed, is 22 million dollars just to pay for those contracts. If the bill is signed in time, it will actually finance and heal children by the end of the year.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u202	Thank you, Mikola Ivanovich. Question completed. Let's sign up for a discussion. Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u203	Dear colleagues, it is regrettable that the current Government, led by Yulia Timoshenko, has eliminated priority sectors and health and education. Education is the intelligence of the nation. Health is a nation's health. Therefore, in the context of or in the context of this misunderstanding anti-national policy of the Government, I think the bill that is being submitted should be supported. The draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2009 has been drafted to address the critical situation of treatment of children with cancer abroad. Ukraine’s 2009 State Health Ministry provides, listen, 7.9 million dollars for the treatment of Ukrainian citizens abroad, with a total need of 30! I mean, four times less! The bill is designed for the purpose of taking action to address the critical situation of the treatment of oncological children abroad. The bill provides for an additional amount of 22 million dollars for the treatment of Ukrainian citizens abroad. The bill proposes to increase the budget allocations of the Ministry of Health under the budget programme “Lessing Ukrainian citizens abroad”. The source of additional expenditure is an increase in the projected export duty by the corresponding volume in the current year. This source is realistic, since the annual plan for the coming of this tax to the general government budget of 15.5 million rubies has been revised in nine months of this year. The adoption of the bill will provide an opportunity to provide surgery for sick children who need a bone marrow transplant and are in line with the Ukrainian Ministry of Health. The faction of the Party of the Regions supports the bill and invites the session hall to vote positively for the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u204	Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u205	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear colleagues! There are three categories of citizens whose attitude is defined by the state's civilization or non-civilization. These are children, the more seriously ill the children. These are elderly people who need protection and assistance from the State. And these are people with limited physical capacity, as we call them, with disabilities. I'm very happy to say that we're looking at a second bill today that applies to these categories of people. And maybe it doesn't look like the background of other space-based legislative initiatives with billions of expenses, with billions of dollars so big and significant. But if you go from the point of view of basic common sense and simply humanism, although it's tautology, humanism is humanity, then the few dozen people whose fate without carrying out these operations, without carrying out bone marrow transplants, unfortunately, are predictable and negative, this bill will save the lives of several dozen people, our citizens, children that no one else can help. And that's why I'm very grateful to Mikola Ivanovich Derkach, as one of the drafters of the bill, and to Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvina. What they found, it would seem, again I say, is not such a big question, which is often talked about, which is debated and which often does not lead to anything, but a real opportunity to help children. I support my colleague Karmazin, and he rightly said that there is no reason for us to postpone the adoption of this bill in general for two weeks. Because everyone understands what oncological children are. Everyone understands, I repeat, but on purpose, what could be the fate of these people any day, the day of recess, the day of removal. I ask very much that we all vote in favour of this bill today as a whole is a human mission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u206	Liszko Oleg Valeriyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u207	Ladies and gentlemen, Bill No. 5237 has been developed to take action to address the critical situation of the treatment of children with cancer abroad. According to the Ministry of Health, 49 patients, 25 of whom have been assigned a positive decision by the Ministry’s commission on the referral of Ukrainian citizens to treatment abroad, are needed to carry out life - support measures at present. The 2009 State Budget of the Ministry of Health provides 7.9 million dollars for this purpose, with a total need for 30 million dollars in the current year. It is therefore proposed that the budget allocations for this goal be increased by 22 million dollars. The adoption of the bill will provide an opportunity to provide surgery for sick children who need a bone marrow transplant and are in line with the Ministry of Health. That's why the faction of Yulia Tymoshenko will vote in favour of this bill in order to provide immediate medical care to people, children first, who need it. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u208	Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u209	Dear colleagues, I think the session room will be more unanimous in determining the fate of this bill than it will ever be, in the sense that we will all support it. One way to think about some of these figures is by reading them. I have great doubts that only 49 people need help — 25 of them. These must have been those who were able to go through appropriate bureaucratic procedures. I do not think that we have only 49 people in the country, of whom 25 are children who need immediate help in connection with this terrible disease of age. So you probably have to be more careful here not to say that it's only 49. They need thousands and tens of thousands of people in this medical facility. The fact is that such a number of people have already received treatment abroad, but once again I stress that this is not the final figure that limits, unfortunately, the people who have this terrible disease. This is one moment. One second. I find it difficult to tell you how much equipment costs now, even though the words of the head of the profile committee to be sent to Belarus, Russia. Is Ukrainian medicine far more distant than our neighboring nations? I don't think so. Something's wrong here. Something's wrong here. Something's wrong here. This is one moment. And the second. If we're talking about the fact that we don't have the equipment we need, it's probably for the amounts we're making for treatment that we might be able to buy the equipment we need, install it in us -- and treat these people in our hospitals. That would be much more effective and much faster. But since it is only, as it were, that the wish that it should be directed and administered by the State of the people who are to do so be sure that we have with you the obligation to adopt this law. And considering, dear fellows, that we are on the threshold with you, if we accept it now only in the first reading, send it to the second reading, by the time it's signed, it's clear that we can't use the funds this year, and unfortunately, we're not healing. [[See, the trees remind us of what time we're in.]] So let's please do it without any hooks, even though they're safe here. I propose to support this bill both in the first and generally as a law in order to save time and to preserve the health of children as far as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u210	School of Andriy Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u211	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. I'm sure a hundred percent of those here will support the bill. I think it's quite timely, unlike the previous speaker, because the funds are predictable. The question is, they're too small. And even with this budget, they're just too small for the number of patients who are already defined as needing treatment abroad. And by the way, the head of the committee that stood here, budgeted, didn't call either Russia or Belarus, but I think we're talking about other countries. It's just a question of what's burning me, and everyone here is going to have to build a powerful, stable medical base in Ukraine. And of course, it's not just one, maybe a year, it's a few. On the other hand, it has no right to stop an active process. So we now have to give first aid where we can give it to those who need it most right now. But in the future, the government will do everything on its own, and we hope to support it by building a clear and powerful healing base in Ukraine. Because this is to be done by an appropriate government fund, most likely by those who cannot be cared for by their parents or by other structures. Here, of course, this should affect children, for very often parents are unable to provide adequate treatment in connection with the huge losses that this treatment needs. So I urge you to stop this discussion right now. Nevertheless, vote in the first reading and in general the bill. And in the future, take care of it with the government so that there is a powerful medical base in Ukraine that will provide treatment in Ukraine, including. Although now that we've faced the simple, it would seem, and the annual problem of fighting the flu, unfortunately, the opposition has not supported us together with the President's Secretariat, and the President has not supported us in this, and a billion has not been allocated, unfortunately, to ensure that we don't have the spring epidemic again. But I hope that this is both a vote, and the next one will squeeze our elbows closer together in the name and in order to ensure the normal and quality life of our citizens in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u212	Pavlovsky Andry Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u213	Dear colleagues, we see from the speeches of our colleagues that all factions are set up to support this bill. That is why I propose that this bill be voted out without unnecessary words and speculation on the sick children, and the "Julia Timoshenko Block" will vote in the first and second readings as a whole. And urge the President not to delay signing this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u214	Sebravsky Paul Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u215	I think that the honourable colleagues that no man in this room is going to be against this bill, and that's probably the right thing to do, and 49 children to cure, and many, many others who aren't in line and unfortunately haven't gotten enough. But I would like to and I think that this bill needs to be voted on in both the first reading and in general. But I'd like to draw attention to a lot of other things. We are now in this room for the second time talking about health care, and we are pianists, including all of us, talking about how we love, but really, there is no serious talk today about the health system in Ukraine. The health system is not effective in Ukraine. It's not. So far, we finance the bed, so far we finance the building, not fund the patient. And that's the key problem. Today's vote is a billion, two. Friends! In order to reform the health care system, at least $100 billion is needed, and in general, good will and a realistic plan of action that would not be disrupted, and who would be in charge of the health insurance fund, whether group or group, and a bill that would give both health insurance and children a budget would be required, a pensioner would be paid by the Pension Fund, half an employee and half a person. And then we wouldn't have any problems treating the child, and we wouldn't be raising money to treat Ukraine's future. I am very sad about the fact that, by voting, we are not systematic in our response to certain challenges, and this is probably a key problem for today's parliament, for today's power in Ukraine. And until we realize that not giving 20, 30, 100, a billion dollars will solve some issues, but only a deep health reform system. And I'm sure I'm not convinced, but I know that there are several laws on health insurance at the top of Parliament today. We're looking at a lot of things, but so far we haven't gotten to all of this. Today, there are no medical standards, unconfirmed and, in fact, a health disorder, leading to the fact that one of the smallest in Europe is the life expectancy of Ukrainians today. Once again, I call upon the MPs, the heads of factions, for the reason that we need to reform the health system and then there will be no such pianists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u216	The discussion is over. I would like to vote on the first reading of the draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2009. [[Registration number 5237]] I'd like to make a statement. [[13:21:06]] For 377 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, during the discussion, several Ukrainian national deputies suggested that the draft law be adopted in general. Please, Michael Ivanovich's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u217	Dear colleagues, I submit a proposal for a transcript. Since the registration of the bill, a number of other bills have been adopted to amend the State Budget Act 2009 including today's financing of justice and measures to combat the influenza epidemic. In the case of the adoption of a bill as a whole as a law in the formulation of it for signature, the Committee on Budget Affairs, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council, is required to make the necessary editorial and technical legal clarifications to the text and the addition to the law in part of the summary figures of the State budget to comply with the laws already adopted to amend the 2009 State Budget. [[No. 5237]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u218	Dear colleagues, are there any objections to voting in general? None. I would like to vote on the adoption of the second reading and the whole draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2009. [[on the increase in expenditure on the treatment of citizens abroad]] [[Registration number 5237]] I'd like to make a statement. [[13:22:48]] For 389 Decision taken. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2009 is being announced for consideration. [[on the financial stability of coal enterprises]] [[Registration number 5394]] Titenko reports Sergey Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u219	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! Your attention is given to a very important bill that will allow for financial stability in the chain of heat power plants, mines and the wages of miners and during the fall-winter heating season. I want to remind you that this year, due to the economic and financial crisis, electricity consumption in the country has decreased by 15 percent. Power stations do not produce 22 percent less power than they did last year. At the same time, in order to secure the accumulation of fuel at the power plants for the autumn-winter period, coal was purchased by 1 billion dollars more than it is possible to provide financially. As a result, 940 million dollars of debt to coal miners accumulated on December 1. The bill proposes to reduce the amount of electricity allowance currently available for each kilowatt-time by 245 million dollars this month, in December. This will allow without increasing the wholesale price of electricity and retail electricity prices for end-users, to find additional sources to pay off coal miners' wages. The Committee on Fuel and Energy has considered, supported, addressed the Committee on Budget Affairs without delay and put it into the Supreme Council for adoption as a basis and as a whole. I ask you to support this decision. Regrettably, the Committee on Budgetary Questions, in connection with the absence of a quorum, was unable to consider it. And if it is accepted, this bill, in general, I ask you to take into account the observation that Mikola Ivanovich Derkach has just made regarding the correction by the Committee on Budget Affairs and the Legal Administration of Texts and Appendices, in view of the need to comply with the laws adopted earlier today on changes to the budget. Thank you very much. I'm counting on backup.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u220	Please sign up for a question to the reporter. Vazievsky Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u221	Vladimir Vyezivsky “Our Ukraine”. [[I'm right here next to the Cabinet of Ministers.]] I wanted to say, ask, actually, you have. I know that there is, not even a decree, but an order from the Cabinet of Ministers, more specifically, the Prime Minister, not to pay temporarily in connection with the crisis at the Pension Fund, to other coal miners, that is, people are getting money, but they're not getting a pension, which means they don't have half a year of the last miners working, and they don't have a pension. Is it true that these costs will go well, including to pay off the pension fund and the Fund from the loss of employment that is now fuelling payments? I'd like to know.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u222	Yes, that is the situation. And, well, this mechanism that you're saying right now is really governed, not by the laws of Ukraine, but by the decrees and decisions of the Cabinet of Ministers. And so in this case, we're only saying one thing that this money has to be directed at these mines where there's a debt on the wages. And as for the government's decision to distribute it, unfortunately, I can't say anything about that. But the source is, is the source.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u223	Konovaluk Valerius Illich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u224	Thank you. Dear Sergey Mikhailovich, the coal sector is in a very terrible state today. And we realize that this is not just a question of financing the expenditure, the debt that is, because the debt of wages is also increasing, it's a huge amount of debt. Please tell me what is the source of the cost of 245 million dollars more precisely. And I'm very curious about the decisions that the government has taken when additional loans are made and for the financing of heat through the enterprise, the state energy company, how has this money been used, how effective, and how does this affect the overall problem? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u225	Well, I'll start with the last one. Indeed, according to the government's decisions, the state-owned energy company has engaged more than one and a half billion loans to coal miners during this year. Today, there are mechanisms that allow for the next and probably six months of the next year beyond 2010, to reduce this lending burden. All the money was automatically recalculated because the special accounts were opened not only in the heat power plant but also in the mines, they were listed in all of Ukraine’s coal mines. Unfortunately, I still have nothing to say. And about the source. In this case, we don't have 245 million sources of coverage, but on the contrary, we're reducing 245 million loads. But according to the appropriate mechanism, this allows the power plants to get 245 million and the sources in this case, as if, well, zero into the bubble. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u226	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u227	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin. I'd like to ask you this. Now, as I read the bill, I saw that the conclusion of the Executive Directorate is missing, just missing. It's not entirely normal for such drafts, you agree with me. Nor do you think it is necessary to hear now the conclusions of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economics, which are bound to be concluded in such cases. I think that this problem needs to be solved and I'm going to propose, and I'm going to vote in favour of the bill in the first reading, but it can't be accepted as a whole until we get the right conclusions, because all good wishes sometimes lead to some coal mine managers not only changing 20-thousand or 40th-thousand dollar clocks every month, but also buying airplanes. And you probably know that too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u228	Yuri Anatolyovich, first of all, about the first reading. So if you could see that all the faction leaders went to the first vice-speaker and asked him to consider it today, even though he was standing on the fourth. So, if we accepted it in general on Thursday, it's too late. So either in general or not, I mean the ratio of procedure. As far as expert conclusions are concerned. In this case, indeed, unfortunately, Mr. Bordenyuk has not been able to consider this bill, but it looks very technical. Do. The cost of the Special Fund is down by 245 million -- all of it. There's nothing else in this bill. And the point is, right after tomorrow, this money is already going to be accounted for. And if we stabilize them, it's only today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u229	Sit down, Sergey Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u230	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u231	Let's sign up for a discussion. We're signing up for the discussion. Sebravsky Paul Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u232	Dear colleagues, we always save something: the village, the coal sector. I thought of it as the head of a subcommittee on expenditure, spending on the coal sector for 2010, that draft of the Budget Act that we rejected. And there's a billion dollars for the so-called mine closure article. This billions of dollars actually go to close down the mines. Everything else is for maintenance. So for today, what's going on? Of course, we need support, we need to help pay off. Today, however, coal is sold only through DAC “Ukrainian Coal”. That's a pretty interesting situation: 300 bucks on the mine and 600-700 bucks on the heat station. That's where this whole situation is today. And without making an order in the coal sector, talk about some normality. There's never enough money, if you steal at a crazy rate, you'll never have enough money. And then we'll always take off the price, the allowance that has to go on closing and regenerating the power plants and nuclear power stations and so on. But the problem is, there's no money in coal mines. The problem is there's no order. And here a colleague said about the coal barons that change the clocks. Yes. But the bigger problem is not even in these directors of mines, the biggest problem in those middlemen who have laid a paw on this whole situation today. And in large numbers, they get profits without putting anything in. When they have a cabinet, several computers, a few people, and they pass this coal through the roofs. And they've identified such a good state-owned stock company, the U.K. Coal Company. But at what prices and how does this come about, what is the basis for all of this? Without a single tender, the power plants get coal. Buying the only manufacturer. And what DAK “Ukrainian Coal” has to the only manufacturer, I don't know. And the thing is. Once again, the honourable colleagues, of course, now need to pay the wages to the miners, the wages to other people who work hard, they're not to blame for the gibberish, the larceny and the theft, I'd like to say, the people who are making serious money. If we had accumulated that money and actually honest tenders were there, that would have been enough money to shut down and rebuild the mine. And we would have normal things in the coal sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u233	Lyszko Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u234	Dear colleagues, the bill is extremely important and vital. And that's why we did the right thing by speeding it up, and that's what we're looking at right now, because, as the bill reporter put it right, it's going to be late tomorrow. But if we want the bill to be signed by the President or at least come out of the walls of the Supreme Council, we need to remove at least a bunch of arithmetic errors that are there. I'm paying attention to the rapporteurs of the bill. By budget revenue, you write 245 million, you reduce the budget's income, and you cut the budget's budget by 320 million. So even arithmetic, they say, doesn't happen. In addition, the bill refers to Law 4707, which you and I have adopted here and we have not overcome the veto. So you can't refer to a law that doesn't exist. Similar errors are contained in Bill 5395, which we will consider. Therefore, in general and with such errors, no law can be adopted. Because according to the Rules, it is to be signed by the head of the budget committee and the head of the secretariat, and they will not be able to sign, given the mass of mistakes that are made. Therefore, it is necessary to accept it in the first reading, to work on the committee for the second reading, because it is a change to the budget. And it actually looks strange when we take changes to the budget without the committee's conclusions, without the scientific expertise, without the conclusion of the legal administration. Wow, yeah, 300 million there and there, with no competent professional conclusion. But given the extreme need for this bill to be adopted, let's make a decision to get the committee to consider it as soon as possible, to prepare these bills for the second reading, to remove the mistakes that are there. And tomorrow morning, so we can vote and accept it as a whole. But the law should work. Let's not do the bear service, Mr. Reporter Sergey Mikolaiovich, I'm addressing you. Let's not do the bear service to the miners. Because we are in a hurry today to vote on a law that will not work. I'm just warning you. And in order for it to work real and to reduce these congregations using electricity, you have to remove all the mistakes that are there. Do you understand? And make a law that miners will use to develop mining. The “Timoshenko Block” supports this law, but subject to its development and that it works in the interests of miners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u235	Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u236	Dear colleagues, respectable Alexander Vladimirović! Thus, because of the wrong foreign policy course, because of the free foreign policy that has made Russia an enemy, we had doubts about the country's energy security for 18 years. It was in the former Soviet Union that we had free gas, free oil, practically free gasoline, solarium, coal, and today we live in our Ukrainian state house. The energy base, the energy resources are mostly in Russia. And thanks to the efforts of the country's leadership, the country's senior leadership, we are virtually cut off from normal energy prices. And we want it or not, but today, out of the five tons of oil consumed by Ukraine, we only get one from ourselves and we get four from Russia. And we want it or we don't want it, and out of the four cubes of gas we consume in Ukraine, we only get one from ourselves, and three from Russia or from Turkmenistan through Russia. And today, we have the only energy resource, coal, but thanks to the efforts of a free government, we have practically buried this industry. You see, right now, a colleague was speaking from BUTO. He told us everything so that the law wouldn't be passed. In fact, his speech puts the last nail in the cover of the tomb, in the funeral of the coal industry. You don't have to give a penny. Because if you throw away the whole word, you don't have to give away the money. They're probably thinking of picking up the coal industry in their ditches. Yes, there were a thousand times as many digs at Julia Vladimirovna's. They dig everywhere like moles. What did you do? We humiliate the people, we humiliate the miners. Coal policy must therefore be radically changed. It's the only energy that's left in our Ukrainian house. Forget about the gas and the oil. It's not the Soviet Union. So let's just invest here, help the industry, yeah. Yeah, on January 17th, we're changing the owner of the Bank, Victor Fedorovich is going to turn the corner, but the miners are going to have to live for another month, and people have to pay their wages, and the miners have people, and they have families, and so are children. At least buy a box of confetti, at least put a piece of meat in for the new year! Therefore, the Party of the Regions is proposing. Calls on everyone and proposes to support the Bill of the Party of the Regions, which individual deputies from alternate factions supported from other factions, and to vote today, not to postpone until tomorrow after tomorrow. We won't get that money for coal until summer. To vote today for the miners to get that money. The Party of the Regions calls on you to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u237	Vazievsky Vladimir Mikhajlovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u238	Dear Ukrainians! I would like to say that by adopting this bill, which, when we consider another bill to improve the situation in the coal industry, we find that, as long as today’s prime minister is in charge, we will not have order. We have done this more than once, and not once do we have bills that bring national MPs or even introduce government, but they confirm that we do not have a targeted exit from the crisis. The solution to the crisis is not in individual fields or in particular to individual electoral groups, but rather to a solution to the crisis as a whole in the state. It is this bill today that claims that once again, on the one hand, we will not be able to get the money in the State Budget for the necessary expenditure articles, for we must rescue miners who really need to buy a piece of bread before the new year. So I would like to say, really in the first reading of this bill we have to adopt, we have to read the second reading together with the Ministry of Finance, if there is such a thing today, to work on it, because the situation is that miners are mentioned in the preceding elections as teachers are mentioned in the preceding elections, just as farmers are mentioned in the preceding elections. The country must live daily, and Ukrainians in that country should feel comfortable. That is why I would like the new government -- and I am convinced that it will soon be formed, a new Ukrainian government that will work in the interests of the Ukrainians -- will be able to propose a whole programme for Parliament. I am convinced that if not in this composition of the Supreme Council, in the next, more Ukrainian, it will find adequate support -- and we will adopt laws that will work for the whole state and for all the Ukrainians who live in this state. Because the best thing we can do as Ukrainians are in that country, where no one will offer us decent wages, even though today we have to go there to make that piece of bread, no one will stand for our native language, Ukrainian, except here, as in the state. So, boys, before the elections, let's play with individual groups that are selective about the second national language -- let's build our state, both in terms of economics and in terms of the spiritual state. Over us Ukrainians, we were very much faked, we were starved, we were deprived of Ukrainian language, we now want to take it away from each other, give it to others. That's not right. And so let's go to the complex to solve the question, let's take this bill on the first reading and work on the second reading so that all the Ukrainians, and the miners, when we look at this bill, live comfortably in the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u239	Konovaluk Valerius Illich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u240	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, I understand that these speeches, they actually agree with this critical situation in the coal sector today. In fact, you know, the previous speech made it clear that just before the election, they were starting to remember teachers, miners, doctors and so on, five years was really not enough to reform, to provide for normal funding, funding, not what they did with the State budget today. So I urge my colleagues to vote in the first reading. Not only to fund these expenses, but to maintain the appropriate level of tariffs on electricity, which is in Ukraine today. Because the standard of living of people today is really low enough that it does not meet the standard of living today or the social standards that must be in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u241	The discussion is over. I am voting on the first reading of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2009 (Registration No. 5394). [[on the financial stability of coal enterprises]] I'd like to make a statement. [[13:45:37]] For 369 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, several Ukrainian national deputies who spoke in the discussion, commented on the text of the draft law. In this regard, there is a problem with the proposal, which also exists, regarding acceptance as a whole. We can't do this right now if there are disagreements or mistakes. I have a proposal that the authors, along with the Committee on Budgets, should work on this draft law for adoption in the second reading so that we can look at it with the first question tomorrow. Is such an offer accepted? Is there no objection? There's no objection. Such an offer is accepted. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2009 is being announced for consideration, registration number 5395. Please, Sergei Mikhailovich Titenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u242	Dear colleagues, thank you for your wise decisions. I hope the mistakes Mr. Lazko has found really do answer. That one day's transfer won't affect the miners. The next law is 5395, which has the same basis as the previous one, on the inability to pay coal miners, and accordingly many issues related to the income of coal miners. So I'm not going to repeat economic grounds. And I'm just going to tell you about the mechanism. Since last year, 260 million dollars have remained in the budget since 2008 and have been received as a special collection of electricity supplies, the same nature as the previous 245 million. But I mean, this money is in the budget now, and it's not being used. There are 15 days left before the New Year, and they can't be used except for the mechanism proposed in our bill. The mechanism is next. There are so-called third group mines that are ready for closure, these mines are fully funded by the State Budget, their total electricity debt today is over 350 million dollars. The mechanism, as envisaged by these bills, is to change the target of the remainder of these unused funds of the State Budget special fund to a little over 260 million and to target them on the programme that is, is repayment. the restructuring of the coal industry, including the repayment of the debt for electricity over the past years. And then this money goes into the skyscraper, and then it goes into the skyscraper, and it's automatically converted into a state-owned power plant, and then into power stations that are based on coal mines. [[I repeat, there can be no theft here.]] You can add an additional 260 million to the 245 million bill in the last year, and so miners will get about 505, slightly more than 505 million. And in this case, I was asked about the Pension Fund. In this case, I know that a draft government decree is being prepared to eventually get this money into the Pension Fund as a debt repayment. I can't do that because it's not the Prime Minister, but I mean, I know what it is. For now, yes. And my request to you, dear colleagues, is similar to the previous one. To accept as a whole, and again to entrust the Committee on Budget Affairs and the Legal Authority in preparing for the signing of the Head of the Supreme Council, to make some technical changes in accordance with the bills that we have voted on today. So that they can be mutually agreed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u243	Thank you, Sergei Mikhailovich. There's a question for the reporter. Please sign in. Yuri Alexanderovich Kolocei, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u244	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. I beg you to pass the word to Valerius Illich Konovaluk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u245	Thank you. Dear Sergey Mikhailovich, the total debt to miners is a billion million, that's on December 1st. We are certainly considering a question that concerns not only the provision of electricity bills, but how the state of debt repayment, wages, for example, for people and miners is also important. And what is planned for coal industry, coal industry, if coal mining is not enough, is to pay for electricity consumption. How do we change the cost planning mechanism so that we don't look at it at the end of the year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u246	You know how much in the past. I have once worked in the Ministry of Coal Industry and I have studied the very interesting experience of the country of Ludwig Erhard – Germany, where it is clearly defined that subsidies and all these other things should be, go on every ton, that these should be incentive payments, are the relevant EU directives, is appropriate, by the way, and the decision of the World Trade Organisation on the need to implement these mechanisms in our country. Unfortunately, we are only saying to Europe that we are going, we are not doing anything about implementing the relevant EU directives. The hundred gave us five years to think about it, and that's how everything that is remains, that's what it is, even though all the mechanisms are known. I don't want to just talk so professionally about these mechanisms right now, they're famous and they work very well in the same Germany. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u247	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u248	Yuri Carmazin. I'd like to ask the same questions, because the bill is kind of similar, but, I mean, expert opinions, I also want to assure you that for the first reading, I'm going to vote. On the second reading of the legal basis, I do not see, I emphasize, the legal basis. Why? Because of the documents I received, I saw that implementation of the bill needed to increase expenditure. And what the sources say is that we have to use the unused funds in 2008 under the State Budget General Fund, it's 260 million 478.6,000 dollars. I'm not sure whether these funds are still used by the government and if we're adopting those laws that we've been considering, we've not foreseen them for other purposes. Do you have that conviction? I'd like to let you know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u249	Dear Yuri Anatolyovich! This money is now in the State Treasury account. They are nowhere to be used, they have a purpose, they may be “no” to the fact, but they are officially on paper. I'm telling you, it's the official manual of the Treasury, this 260, coma, and so on and so forth. Well, let them tell you where they're going, it's like corruption "smells." They must be. [[B in m in s a l in]] Wait! I'm telling you again, the money from this special fund from the targeted power supply is transitional. They've gone, the remainder, because it's going to end up, until 01.01, and the money is coming in next year, they can't automatically be used this year. And in the past, in 2008, 260 million people crossed over this year. Unfortunately, they are still unused. And what we're saying right now is that let's change the target assignment, 260 million of these unused funds.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u250	Understanded the situation, there is a difference between the general and the special funds of the state budget. Please, Oleg Valeriovich Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u251	Thank you, Your Honor Alexander Volodymyrovich. Sergey Mikhailovich, I have a question for you. Now, when you started your speech, you said that we were going to expect the mistakes that Easy found in the previous Law 5394, and they really are. How do you understand that? We're talking about disagreements, inaccuracies in the law, and they're not there? Is that what you think? Are you accusing or suspecting someone deliberately refusing to give the miners money? So I have a question for you: why didn't you and your faction vote when, over the course of the year, the government passed several bills aimed at increasing the financing of the sector, and you didn't vote. And here they registered the 2nd of December law, 2nd of December, and you're telling me, let's think about it in one day, without the committee's decision, and with the mistakes that are there, the mass of mistakes. You guys, I already told you that you're doing me a favor to the miners. You're passing a law that won't work, it won't work. Why? To tell you what someone is guilty of? Come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u252	Can I answer that? I want to divide by two parts. First. We didn't vote on a bill to increase the financing of the coal sector. What's more, I'll tell you. There is also the Supreme Council decree of July 14, which obliges the Cabinet of Ministers to draft legislation on these mechanisms. Regrettably, the official response of the relevant officials of the Cabinet states that they do not. Now there are letters from both ministries about how they need this bill. It's about how we don't vote, how we don't like miners. It's about mistakes. I'm writing the laws myself, I want to tell you. Yesterday, when I was talking to those people who had just been found, they didn't see any mistakes. I took them, I said, this is December 2nd. I took them on December 1st from the official site of the Supreme Council. If there are mistakes, let's go to the Supreme Council's employees and give them the hat that they're giving you on the official website the wrong numbers that your employees might have found this morning, well.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u253	Thank you, Sergei Mikhailovich. Have a seat, please. Is there a need to discuss?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u254	We have a choice, or we sign up for the show now and we will.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u255	If there is no objection, I am voting on the approval in the first reading of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2009. [[Registration number 5395]] I'd like to make a statement. [[13:58:05]] For 365 Decision taken. The rapporteur proposed the adoption of a draft law as a whole. There is a denial of the national MPs Lazko and Karmazin. So, dear colleagues, I propose that we do this bill in the same way as before. Is there a denial? There's a denial. Please, Oleg Valeriovich Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u256	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, there is no objection. I suggest we consider this law tomorrow. But you and I just voted on the first reading of 5394. Now we're looking at 5395. Let's put them together in one and tomorrow we're going to write them as one law, because there's both the subject and the same, the issues that are dealt with in these laws. Therefore, until the second reading tomorrow, work together and pass as one coherent law without errors, balanced by expenditure, income, and so forth. I'm tasking the committee to do this.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u257	Dear Oleg Valeriyovich, I'll make my point on this, it'll complicate the situation, because there are different sources and there's a common, and there's a special fund and we've already adopted that project in the first reading and we've adopted it in the first reading. So just so we don't make it difficult, I have a proposal that we do work with two specific projects. Is there no objection? Dear colleagues, no one would deny that after the second reading of Project 5394 tomorrow, we have considered Project 5395? Is there no objection?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u258	Go to the government to make a statement!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-15-m0.u259	No one's denying it. So tomorrow the second question will be the draft of Law 5395. Dear colleagues, I declare this morning's plenary session closed. At 4 p.m., an evening plenary meeting will begin.
