ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:15]] There were 422 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, I would like to welcome the national deputies of Ukraine, who today are born: The weaver of Roman Volodymyrovich and Yatsenuk Arseny Petrovich And we wish our colleagues health and success. And now information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at plenary meetings on May 21, 2009. Forty-one questions of the agenda have been considered. As a result of the review, 17 laws and 18 regulations were passed, one bill was adopted on the basis of seven bills being returned to committees for re-reading, five bills and seven draft decrees were rejected; the President's proposals led to the President's overcoming the President's veto by one law, one law being rejected, and the President's veto not overcame. According to article 25 of the Rules, on Wednesday 30 minutes are taken to announce parliamentary requests. Now, one minute. Please, Adam Martinyuk microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u2	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, I think it's absolutely right that the Head always does information on the results of last plenary day's work. Using this, I would like to draw the attention of our distinguished fellow journalists: either they should be careful to keep an eye on the work of the Supreme Council, or they should not comment in a way that does not correspond to reality. Here are two examples from yesterday. I'm not going to call the media that distributed this, everyone will know themselves. First. They wrote that the Supreme Council did not want to increase scholarships, named scholarships for the Supreme Council by 500 dollars. On the contrary, the Supreme Council did not allow for the reduction of named scholarships. Because now it's 1200, 1,600, and it's 750, 900. Even more so, as it were, the thesis spoke of the Party of Regions and the Communists finally banning advertising on Russian television channels. It was about the Advertising Act. We didn't pass that law, we moved it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u3	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u4	So please, fellow journalists, pay attention to what is happening in the session room and do not misinformation our voters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, allow me to announce the parliamentary questions that have come. A request was received from the national deputies of Ukraine. Vladimir DENILENKA to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the award of the Football Club "Shahtar" by Gramot of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for a significant contribution to the promotion of the sport image of the state and the promotion of the rating of Ukraine among the European football states. For this reason, my dear fellows, I immediately turn to the district council of the Donetsk Region with the request to make an appropriate submission, and it is clear that the Supreme Council will unanimously support it, namely the award of the Football Club "The Shakhtar". Anatolia GRECENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, acting as Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine on the inability of the authorities of the State to ensure that the activities of RosUkrenergo in the area of gas supply to Ukrainian consumers are monitored. Mr. Vladimir DANILENK to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about the unsatisfactory work of the Conciliation Commission in the milk market regarding the preparation and submission of proposals to the Ministry of Agricultural Policy of Ukraine for purchasing milk prices. Boris DEJECH to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the answer not to the content of the question raised in the parliamentary inquiry concerning the restructuring of the state-owned enterprise Radgosp "Wesselivski" of the National Agricultural and Agriculture Association "Masandra" of the Sudak district of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, by joining it with the state-owned enterprise "Morskie", systematic non-payment of wages and artificial bankruptcy by the Ministry of Agrarian Policy of Ukraine. Edward PRUTNIK to the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine on the collective appeal of pensioners and disabled persons in the region of Montenegro for timely compensation for the payment of individual categories of citizens and for the use of appropriate debt repayments of 155 000 fines on State budget subsidies to local budgets for the implementation of contracts concluded between private carriers and the Bahamas regime of the Chernigiv region. MICHELLA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-sale of the stockholding of the open stock company Dniprometrobud. MICHELLE RUDEN to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for violating the requirements of the current legislation of Ukraine in the release of the employees of the Open Shareholders Association of the Malin Paper Factory - Weidmann in the city of Malin Zitomir district. Mr. Mikoli Shershun to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to improve the implementation by the executive bodies of the Executive Directorate of the Fund of Insurance against statutory accidents in the area of rehabilitation for victims of manufacturing. MICHELLA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to resolve the issue of determining the status of persons who, at the time of the Chernobyl disaster, were in childhood and were subsequently infected with thyroid cancer. Jury of Lithuania to the Prime Minister of Ukraine concerning Presidential Decree No. 62 of 29 January 2008 on certain measures for the development of road traffic in Ukraine, and Order of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of 20 August 2008 No. 1096 on the Approval of the Concept for the Reform of the Public Administration System for Motorways of General Use. Jurya TREUGUBOVA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the Head of the Security Service, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Attorney-General on the issue of gross violation of Ukrainian legislation. Vasila Petovka and Oksana Bilozir to the Prime Minister on taking urgent action to transfer the entire property complex of the State Enterprise "Lvivski ipodr" to the property of the community of Lviv. Groups of National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on creating inappropriate conditions for the education and training of pupils in general educational institutions. [[COMARA, CHECKOVA, MANKOVSKI]] Groups of National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine foresaw the 2009 target expenditure from the state budget for the elimination of the impact of the disaster. [[COMARA, CHECKOVA, MANKOVSKI]] Groups of National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the legality of the revocation of the licence by the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine. [[THE CHURCH, THE KNOCKET, AND OTHERS]] Vassil GREECE under the responsibility of the Minister of Finance of Ukraine to investigate the activities of the state-owned enterprise "The Ukrainian National Research Institute of Commercial and Monetary Technology, Financial and Stock Markets". [[Ukreekon State Enterprise]] Vassila FIVE to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service regarding the activities of BLEXTON’S INTERNECHENEL GROUP in Ukraine. Dmitra ŠPENOVA to the Minister for Regional Development and Construction of Ukraine on the situation that took place at the state-owned enterprise "Specialised State Expert Organisation – Central Service of Ukrainian State Building Expertise" with the appointment of Vladimir Churilov as Head. Mr. Ivan DENKOVIĆA to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine regarding the inappropriate response to the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine regarding the strengthening of the participation of student self - government bodies in the management and functioning of student dormitories of educational institutions. Mr. Eduard PRUTNIK's acting Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, Director-General of the Closed Shareholders' Association, Novgorod-Syverski Sirzavod, on the re-examination of the non-profit organization of the Union of Agricultural Producers of Wünka on behalf of 427 farmers of milk on the use of appropriate measures to monitor compliance with the legislation on the protection of economic competition and the cessation of anti-competitive concerted actions by the Closed Shareholder Society of the Novgorod-Syverska Sirzavod and other factories of the Montenegrin region in relation to the villagers of the Union. Igora GREENIVA to the Ministry of Environmental Protection of Ukraine, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, on removal from the territory of the Lviv region of the neutralized humid residues. Ms. Alexander VASILEVA to the Minister for Coal Industry of Ukraine for the free provision of housing for pensioners. Ms. Alexander ŠEPELEVA to the Minister for Housing and Utilities of Ukraine on the solution of the issue of water supply in the village of Shiroke Donetské region. Alexia PLOTNIKOVA to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for dissatisfaction with the parliamentary request for misconduct by patrol inspectors regarding the head of the Anatolia Malačka Regional Party. Helen BONDARENKO to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Attorney-General, on the non-use of law enforcement measures by Ukraine regarding the investigation of the acquisition of funds collected for gas pipelines in the village of the Great Crown of the area of Žitomir. Helen LUKASH to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, U.S. Attorney General of Ukraine, on the groundless delay in the investigation of a criminal case committed against Valentin Savitsky on the basis of the crime envisaged in article 2, paragraph 286 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code, which led to the death of Ludmila Lisenko. LITHUANIA’S Jury to the Head of the Ukrainian State Committee on Land Resources on Violations of Legislation in Forming Land Rights Documents for People living in the village of Makarih in the area of Zhaman district of Kirovograd. The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Head of the Poltava District Public Administration for the prevention of the closure of the stationary office of Mercy of the Territorial Labour and Social Protection Centre of the Executive Committee of Lubna Poltava Region and for the protection of the rights of citizens held in it and transferred all their movable and immovable property to live forever, to maintain and serve fully. Jury KARMAZIN to the head of the Supreme Council of Justice, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the violation of a criminal case against the judge of the Frankiv District Court of the Lviv Region of María Martínishin for violating the oath of a judge, for taking an unjust decision, for exceeding the authority that led to the unlawful deprivation of the will of the citizen of María Mayewska, for deciding whether to release her from court and for bringing her to criminal responsibility. Helen LUKASH to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the improper investigation of a criminal case involving a traffic accident that took place on 25 March 2007 in the city of Donetsk, with the participation of Maxim Rudičev and Ivan Rostoveck. Jaroslav KENDZYORA to the Head of the Accounting Chamber, the Attorney General, on the irregularity of the allocation by the Ministry of Regional Development and the construction of Ukraine of a budget of 25 million 803,000 dollars for the conduct of anti-removal measures of engineering and counter-accidental work in the territory of the Kiev-Pecher laurel religious organization of the Holy Uspen Kyew-Pecher Lavre. JAROSLA SOCIETY to the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine regarding the state of financing and the start of construction of housing to provide for the needs of military personnel in the Zaporozhye region. Anatolya GRECENKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the renewal of the criminal investigation, which was violated on July 27, 2007, under article 425 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine for the negligence of military personnel in A 0105 to military service during the decision to extend the lease of helicopters to the Army Air Force of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. - I'm sorry. Andrija PortnowA to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the investigation of systematic corruption and official crimes committed by the city’s city chief, Lviv Andriy Sadov. Arnold RADIO to the Attorney General of Kiev City on the return to the state property of privatized monuments of architecture and the construction of the city of Kiev, which are deliberately destroying. — Boris TARASJUKA to the Attorney General on the illegal decision of the Sevastopol City Council to prohibit instruction in Ukrainian in the city’s public educational institutions. VICTOR SINCHENKA to the Attorney General for the illegal alienation of land and the establishment of ownership of land in the Obukhiv district of Kyiv. VICTOR SINCHENKA to the Attorney General for the unlawful privatization of property owned by the community of the village of Szpendovka in the Kaharliecki district of Kyiv region, the renter Volodymyr Onuka. Vladimir PHILIPPEN to the Attorney General for the verification of the use by the head of the Ternopil State Administration, Yuri Chizmar, of a car with forged documents and of pressure on law enforcement authorities to avoid liability. Mr. Vladimir STRETOVIĆA to the Attorney-General on the violation of the Constitution and laws of Ukraine as a result of the deployment in Ukraine of the representation of the International Commercial Arbitration Court before the European Arbitration Chamber, established in Brussels under the legislation of the Kingdom of Belgium. To the Attorney General, Vladimir YAVORIYSKE, for the purpose of the adventurous “reorganization” of the city’s medical facilities, which could have a negative impact on the health situation in the city and the exacerbation of the epidemiological situation in the district center. Gregory OMELZENKA to the Attorney-General for not allowing the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine to delay the issue of the violation of a criminal case based on the fact of famine in 1932-1933 in Ukraine as the genocide of the Ukrainian people, that is, the crime envisaged in article 422 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code. GREGORY OMELČENKA to the Attorney General for the violation of a criminal case involving the head of the State Department of Ukraine in the Kyiv region of Andrija Ivanjuk for improperly carrying out his duties, resulting in violations of the constitutional rights of natural and legal persons and damages to the state and local budgets of 7 million dollars. Dmitra SPENOVA to the Attorney General on the improper examination of the parliamentary appeal and non-execution of the procurator's prescriptions by the officials of the Luhana Regional Chamber of Commerce and Industry. Mr. Ivana DENKOVIĆA to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the inappropriate response of the authorities of the Public Prosecutor’s Office of the Lviv Region to the decisions of the courts of the Radehiv District Council of the Lviv Region. Jury KRUKA to the Attorney General on the use of appropriate measures of procuratorial response to return to the state property of the Ukrowiska Budd company and the State Enterprise Ukrkkonvers of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine. GORDIENKA to the Attorney-General on the protection of the legitimate interests of citizens of the village of Bubnivska Slobyk of the Zolotonani region of the Cherka region of Mikali Tkachenka, Viktor Yasinenko, Alexander Lopczynski on the right to free privatization of housing, which was formerly owned by the local economy and was not transferred in accordance with the established order to the municipal property of the local council, the need for a thorough verification of the rule of law and the management of the assets of the housing foundation of today's founders of agriculture, the inactivity of the district prosecutor's offices and the area in question. Jury CARMAZIN to the Attorney-General of Ukraine, Deputy Attorney-General of Ukraine Renata Kuzmin, on the improper reaction to parliamentary appeals regarding fraud in particular large-scale cases, on the way to misleading the court and leading it to an unfair decision by citizens of John Kostul and Volodymyr Dodlski, on the examination of the facts of smuggling and on the gross violation of customs legislation of Ukraine and on the legislation on the registration of means of transport by indicated citizens, on the application of measures for the renewal of the constitutional rights of Ukrainian citizen Tetjana Kuzmik and on the proper response to the parliamentary appeal of March 23, 2009, No. 151. Jury KRUKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the use of appropriate measures of prosecutorial response to prevent the looting of the land resources of the village of Križanovka Odessa. JOURIA DORCHENKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for an official answer regarding the status of the criminal case. Groups of National Deputies to the Attorney General on the anticonstitutional decision of the Sevastopol City Council on the introduction of Russian language teaching in local schools. [[STATION, CANDJORA, AND OTHERS]] Irina HERASTENKO and Alexander TRETIJAKOVA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation by the City Council of Sevastopol in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. Mr. ANDRIA PORTNOVA to the Attorney General for the use of urgent measures to bring criminal responsibility and arrest one of the heads of the Ukrainian Security Service, Mr. Anatolia Pavlenko, for the organization of illegal listening to officials, national deputies and government officials of Ukraine. Andrija PAVLOWSKI to the Kiev city head for the prevention of illegal land construction at the address of the Gagarin Prospect, 15-A, in the Dniprovsk district of Kyiv. Thus, honourable national deputies, 71 MPs have been asked. Now for the announcement. Announcing, may I have your attention? On the termination of the mandate of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to investigate the corruption of officials who impede the return of 16 MI-8MT helicopters to the Ukrainian Armed Forces, who have been leased to the closed-circuit association “Ukrainian helicopters”. [[MTV]] The designated interim commission of inquiry was established in accordance with the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 15 January 2009, where paragraph 8 defines the term of the commission's activities three months from the date of its adoption, i.e. 15 April of this year. The report on the work carried out, in accordance with paragraph 9 of the decree, has been set out in two months, but until now the draft Ordinance on the report of the Interim Investigation Commission has not been registered, as provided for in the law of Ukraine “On temporary investigators of commissions, a special interim inquiry commission and temporary special commissions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine”. In connection with the above, in accordance with article 87, part 8, of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare the suspension of the powers of the Interim Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to investigate the corruption of officials who prevent the return of 16 MI-8MT helicopters to the Ukrainian Armed Forces, who have been leased to the closed-circuit association “Ukrainian helicopters”. [[MTV]] So all the announcements and queries are made. Dear colleagues! The two factions, the "Julia Timoshenko Block" and the "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" bloc, demand that the Rules suspend consultations on the TSC's report on monitoring the state of disaster management. Here we go. We've been through this three or four times. So are you going to break up or do you want to do a performance? What? Dear colleagues, there's a 30-minute recess for up to 10 hours for 55 minutes. Faction leaders are requested to meet in the office of the Chief of Staff of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention so that we may continue our work? Dear colleagues, at the Conciliation Board meeting, we discussed three questions: the first question, which concerns the report of the Interim Special Commission on Monitoring the state of elimination of the effects of the natural disaster that occurred in the summer of 2008, in Western and in some other areas. In view of the accusations that the commission’s report itself was not agreed upon, we decided that the report would be made by the head of the temporary special commission, Paklesenka Aleksandra Mikolaiovich, and with a joint report, or with a separate, special thought, a member of TSK Schlimko Dmitry Vasilovich would speak. And the draft decision on the outcome of the discussion will delete the sixth paragraph, which addresses the need to publish the report of the temporary special commission in the parliamentary newspaper Vos Ukraine. We have also reached the only position: in view of the fact that the session hall is divided by about half, in half, it will be very difficult to confirm the commission's report, but, at the same time, I appeal to the heads of the commission with a strong request that they work in such a way that the reports of the committees sound not from the commission's head, but from the commission, exactly as the decision. At the same time, it is proposed that the Committee on Rules, MPs and the Organization of the Work of the Supreme Council and the Chief Legal Authority propose possible amendments and additions to the TSC Act, particularly in order to guarantee the rights of opposition to the implementation of such a mechanism as temporary commissions of inquiry. The second question was also considered: The proposal to swear members of the High Council of Justice. The proposals on this issue were: first, to regulate this coalition by law and wait for the President's signature, then to bring the judges to justice. members of the High Council of Justice for the oath. The second sentence is to enact an appropriate law and immediately take the oath of the members of the High Council of Justice, without waiting for the decision of the President of Ukraine accordingly. And the third suggestion is to go to the session room for support to consider the issue of swearing to the members of the High Council of Justice. The final proposal received the greatest support from the leaders and authorized factions. The proposal was therefore put to the vote. The issue of the return to the review of the Act on the granting of admission to the territory of Ukraine to foreign forces for participation in training was also discussed. This question will also be put on your mind, your decision, your honourable colleagues. I've finished informing you of the outcome of the agreements reached at the Conciliation Council meeting, and so I'm announcing to consider the issues, the report of the Temporary Special Commission on Disaster Management, which took place from 23 to 27 July 2008 in Vinicki, Ivano-Frankivsky, Zakarpatski, Lvivsky, Ternopil and Chernivetic areas. The following Rules are proposed: For the report of the chairman of the commission, please pay attention! – up to 20 minutes, questions-answers – 5 minutes, a report by a member of the Temporary Special Commission – 10 minutes, and questions-answers – 5 minutes, speeches and discussions on the subject – in 20 minutes. No warning? Let's move on to the question. Reported to the head of the Temporary Commission, Pecklusenko Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u7	Respectable voters, respectable colleagues! Eight meetings were held during the commission. Members of the Commission made 50 trips to the scene of the tragedy and received thousands of letters and statements. The Commission's work was carried out in a constructive manner, as evidenced by the unanimous decision of the members of the Commission to adopt draft regulation 4377. We did not even differ according to the report, not by the facts set out there, but by the assessment of the work of the ministries, the observatories, the Cabinet of Ministers as a whole. In the final version, this dispute must be resolved today in this room. The main instrument of our work was requests by the Ministry, the occlusions and the Cabinet of Ministers. Based on their responses and information received on mission in the Western areas, the conclusions proposed to you have been drawn. It should be noted that since the first days of its work, the Commission has faced the reluctance of most ministries and executive bodies in the field to cooperate constructively with the Commission. This was particularly the case for the Ministry of Finance, Audit and other central authorities. The answers were based on recommendations, and all the materials required by the Commission can be downloaded from ministries and directly denied information. I will say objectively that this irresponsible position of officials has been clearly assessed by all members of the Commission. If there have been some positive changes since the interviews in the ministries with regard to the provision of information on the number, I will inform you. I'm sorry, I have to call you back. Look, please, at the number of documents received here in two folders only in the last month. A microscopic font that you can't find under any magnifying glass. I repeat, the number of papers has been such that not only 15 people are able to capture this information but all 450. There have been no quantitative and qualitative changes in the provision of information by the board of governors. At the invitation to participate in the work of the Commission in the outcome, expected on 6 March 2009, note that no Governor has responded to the question, so they are concerned. On the other hand, the head of the Ternopolsk People's Authority, Chižmar, totally ignored the invitation without coming alone, had not sent an alternate. At the request of the Commission to the Presidential Administration to respond to the behaviour of Chižmar to this day, no response shall be made. I hope Vladimir Mihajlovich, and my colleague, that the Supreme Council will assess this egregious disregard for the work of Parliament. In such difficult circumstances, the Commission was able to gather as much information as possible and to transmit the decision to you. The Constitution of Ukraine stipulates that a person, his life, health, honour and dignity, integrity and security are determined by the highest social value in Ukraine. However, the poor status of flood protection in Ukraine over the past 10 years has led to the worst consequences of loss of human life three times. I'm paying attention to my colleague. Get away from these numbers! Floods in 98 - 17 people, 2001 - 9, 2008 - 39 deaths. Ivano-Frankovska oblast – 23 people, Chernovicka – 11, Vinnitkaya – 3, Lviv – 1, Ternopol – 1. Dear colleagues! Please observe a minute of silence for the memory of the dead. Sit down, please. This is the largest and most terrible price Ukraine has paid, and no billions will return the dead to their families in this tragedy. The main conclusion that has been reached today is not by the deputies. the opposition and the main supervisory body of Ukraine, the Court of Auditors. The inaction of the authorities in providing flood protection is a direct violation of the constitutional rights of all citizens. That's the main conclusion. I repeat, not the opposition, not the main controlling body. In this regard, the Commission raises reasonable and responsible questions as to what conclusions the authorities have drawn since the tragedy, whether each tragic one has been examined, whether answers to questions were received as to how the forecasting system had been put in place and how the flood had worked. If it were good, if the organization was at an appropriate level, why so many victims that could and could not have done the services of the MCS, the MOUs, health institutions, the authorities on the ground, paying tribute to all the heroes who took the hit first, we all understand from the Commission that if the above-mentioned services had a logistic base that was in line with the requirements of the flood-threatening region, many lives could have been preserved. Who's against that conclusion? Despite repeated requests, no reasonable answers have been received, so new elements may be possible again. On its destructive scale, the disaster has no precedents, 36,000 houses, 11,000 of them completely, 11 major thousands of destructions, 22,000 very serious destructions, 317 educational institutions, 300 health institutions, 883 bridges, all those figures, I'm not stopping them, they're in your title. But you have to say that the magnitude of the disaster is enormous and you have to pay tribute to your colleagues, the money you have allocated on 31 June to deal with the impact of the disaster, given the complexity of the 2008 budget, the huge money, the 4 billion in the decision of the Supreme Council, you remember the disputes you had in the session room about where to send the money. The Government intended to take them as far as possible to the centre, the areas to themselves. The Supreme Council seems to me to have made the right decision: 50 by 50. But who in this very important dispute, the systemic issue was right: government, parliament, areas? The Commission has repeatedly requested Kabmin and the leadership of the regions. No response has been received so far. In our view, the reason for this silence is not to provoke a conflict of interest. If Kabmin starts criticizing areas for ineffective use of funds, there is something to respond to Kabina, which has in principle been the case with mutual claims to ministries and heads of administrations, from governors to ministers. But as soon as the money was swallowed up, by the time Kabmin and the districts met in March, everything had been wiped out, there was only a shared desire to absorb the new billions of people's money. I'll tell you what, we need to get the money to the affected areas. But if they are to be conquered with such violations, with such uncontrolledness, it is the people’s money thrown into the wind. This is illustrated by the letters that the Commission had received from the affected areas. We had no information, and there was nothing else for us to print in the regional newspapers and ask for information from the population. Thousands of letters go to this day! I will stop at the most frequent complaints in the letters. Thus, the Temporary Commission received numerous appeals from residents of the village of Zabrzej Kolomie district of Ivano-Frankov region. There is no response to them on the ground. We've had representatives of this village twice, we've sent all these documents to the authorities. Borodkina Vera Dmitryevan Tismenica Ivano-Frankovsky region reported that she had been awarded all of the 80,000 bracelets. There is nothing left of the economy, and it is impossible to recover this money and it is impossible to recover it. The situation described in the letter from the resident of the village of Bukivka Černovicki district of Olar Elena Ivanovna. Initially, 32,000 were paid. Then an official came in and said the money was illegal. She's already spent them on farming. Now they're asking her to return the money. The Commission received a request from the members of the Kosovo Paradise Council of Ivano-Frankov Region of Daniluk. Our fellow MP writes about the constant abuse of power, the falsification of acts. In fact, roads, premises, yes, are in poor condition, but not because they are affected by floods; rather, they are not systematically engaged in power. Acts were falsified and money was sent to these acts. In his letter, a member of the local council of the Kalish district of Ivano-Frankov Province of Papadjuk addressed serious deficiencies in the work on disaster management. The MP provides examples of violations in the construction of the shores. The estimate is on the Balohivka River and no money has yet been received. The people of the Archinca Chichman region of the Kitzman region of the Chernowitz region are also going to write and shout. Nina Ivanovna's writing from the Vinnitsk oblast tells and tells of the differences between the chairmen of the rural councils of Jurkovitsa and Srebrenica, who cannot divide the road and ultimately neither the road nor the bridge are repaired. All the letters received from the victims were carefully analysed with all colleagues. The replies were sent to Kabmin, and the replies were sent to the ombudsman. What are the mechanisms for dealing with those letters received by the clmissia? The Kabmin gave us a bill of lading. The state administration replied to us with its replies earlier. I want to say with all my responsibility. There wasn't one of them. The statement was not considered upon departure. It was only over that they were coming back. Therefore, the specific solutions to the issues that have been and are indeed needing to be addressed do not. Many complaints from the population about illegal, unbiased house surveys, which have been destroyed, provision of material assistance, and expenditure are still pending. Contact the Svetinski People's Commission. We, the members of the commission, understood that dealing with the consequences of the tragedy required an informal, urgent solution, especially when every victim, every family. We didn't touch each other for our own failures. But Kabmin's authority has allowed for systemic violations in the use of 4 billion funds. Contrary to article 117 of the Ukrainian Constitution on the Cabinet of Ministers, the master plan was not approved by the Cabinet of Ministers. The 14 decisions of Kabmin had no document under the Kabmin Rules. Dozens of actions by the Cabinet of Ministers do not contain any financial and economic indicators. Initially, the challenge was to induce money so that it would not be responsible for each of the allocations. Ignorance by Kabmin of the real situation has led to overpayments. Thus, the Ministry of Defence has returned 20 per cent to the budget, at a time when a billion is insufficient to recover from the Ministry of Defence has paid 20 per cent of the excess money. The Ministry of Fuel received 30 per cent of the money and returned it. But if these ministries have honestly returned money to a budget that cannot be used for any other purpose than disaster management, almost 70 per cent of the total amount allocated to them has been used by the Ukrainian Ministry of Emergency Management. In fact, it was budget funding. I'm not arguing whether these costs were needed or not. I am talking about the fact that they could not be financed through money spent on liquidation. The Ministry of the Interior of Ukraine, out of the total amount of funds received from the contingency fund, spent 1.7 million on the repair of its own administrative premises, the acquisition of passenger transport and 721,000 on activities not related to the impact of the disaster to the Office of Internal Affairs of the Odessa Region. The State Committee on Veterinary Medicine financed the acquisition of funds from the contingency fund of the budget amounting to 4.7 million United States dollars. The use of pigs throughout Ukraine is permitted to prevent African swine fever. This money is allocated to specific areas, not the whole territory of Ukraine. Of the materials of the State: does not have information on the state of funding. The Government's commitment to farmers remained on the paper. A similar picture in procurement. All you can think of is that under this brand of alcohol factories, a team was assigned to purchase unsuspecting prefabricated grain. As a result, the grain was purchased higher than the average price in Ukraine by 30 per cent. No clear humanitarian assistance has been monitored by individual citizens, charitable organizations. A triggering factor in the use of disaster response: a procedure for issuing special auction permits has been established that allows for 20 years of competition to be taken away from management and use of leverage! What are you going to do for 20 years to eliminate these consequences?Oh, my God! You're 20 years away from all competitions without winning a local or public budget. The magnitude of the destruction is enormous. The funds allocated to liquidation from the authorities required consolidated work and a parallel effective system. As of today, we have this picture: 20,000. Buildings, one and a half thousand budget distributors, almost 20,000. The structures are being used to eliminate them. It should be noted that most of them worked honestly, in good faith. But the letters from the inhabitants of the affected regions, the results of the missions indicate that violations, abuses, outright machining are more than enough. A total of 140 verifications were carried out by the CPR at 36,000 sites of 140. As many as 48 million have been identified. In addition, the members of the commission clearly determine how many cases have been referred to the Public Prosecutor's Office, how many criminal cases, what court decision, whether the CPR or the Cabinet of Ministers do not have and do not want to have much. I want to answer those who ask in advance, did not my colleagues and I see the great work that has been done by tens of thousands of people involved in the liquidation? We're saying that you participants in the elimination have shown patterns of heroism. Low tribute from a private policeman, a doctor, an MCS fighter, presidents of village councils, collectives, hundreds, tens of thousands of workers, builders. We see and appreciate this work, but against the backdrop of its particular indignation. All the branches of power that at the start, when it was the main novel event of the country's life, continued to fall from the television screens, to wave the plates off the destroyed bridges, to walk with a compassionate view in the affected villages, but as soon as the topic was removed from the television screens, the main actors left. The highest officials not only lost interest in who and how the money was spent but also signaled the monitoring authorities later on to address the issue. We want the special commission to be supported by you. The authorities have no right not to state the main causes of the tragedy. That's our request. The first is the lack of a clear programme to address the consequences of the flood in the Cabinet of Ministers, regions on the ground. Second. We demand an analysis of the miscalculations across the executive vertical. Third. It is the organization of systematic checks on the use of severe penalties against all perpetrators of theft and those who have covered theft. And most of all. We, the people's deputies, must devote money to combating the causes of the tragedies, and then there will be no consequences.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u8	The report is complete. Please sign up for Alexander Mikolaiovich Pecklesenka's question. National MP Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u9	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear Alexander Mikolaiovich, well, we have listened with consideration to your passionate report, but it seems to me that it is not entirely objective, but to say more, even completely unobjective. First of all, the information you gave me, as far as I know, wasn't confirmed at the board meeting, and you might think that's your information. Secondly, it is given through the prism of political interest. Now you're accusing the government of, you see, not doing anything, not doing anything, not forgetting people's problems. In fact, I think that the residents, especially the affected areas of western Ukraine, are very grateful to both the government of Timoshenko and the professional ministries involved in eliminating the consequences of this disaster, for the billions of dollars that have gone there, for the attention of the Prime Minister himself and so forth. Another question is that the local authorities, the governors, the governors, abused these funds, and you sign up for the government. The government responded immediately. Remember how we are.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u10	Complete the question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u11	The government responded immediately, and ask how we conducted the next session and so forth. So I'm asking you, Alexander Mikolaiovich: let's not make politicians on people's mountain and settle accounts with political opponents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u12	You just said that I and my colleagues have political interests. The essence of these political interests is specific: public money earned by the people allocated must be used as effectively as possible. There is order for that to happen. The Kabmin was obliged to approve the master plan and did not do so. No decision has financial and economic justification. This means that Kabmin initially decided not to be responsible for the economy. The third, most important cluster of our political issues. 50,000 business entities, 140. Count the percentage of 50! Of these, 70 are planned. 48 million have been identified. People scream, how much money is ineffective and misused! If Kabmin had cooperated with the commission from the very beginning if Kabmin had organized it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u13	Complete the answer more precisely, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u14	If Kabmin had checked at least one letter of departure from a thousand, everything you say must have happened. We have a political interest in controlling every numeral of folk money.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u15	Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u16	Thank you. I understood the position of Ukrainian national deputies from the coalition. From their point of view, what Timothy praises is objective and constructive. Any criticism, any remarks, is immediately unconstructive, it's unobjective, it's politics and so on. It's a deadlock, it closes the growth and closes the dynamics of any issue. Dear Alexander Mikolaiovich, I am so impressed, and I know that I have been there not once, and from your report, from your report to your committee, I have the impression that money for the elimination of the disaster and for the non-admission of the new trouble has been stolen: either it has not been allocated in full, because it has been stolen or stolen at all levels. And what is the right of a coalition colleague? We're probably going to have to deal with the local self-government authorities where the money is distributed. If the amount they're going to get on the spot is 100 percent, how much they're going to get on the spot, how much they're going to get.?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u17	Thank you, Jaroslav Mikhailovich. As a person of experience, you know that the word “advanced” and the word “used by appointment” between these two concepts is a gap. Why do I appeal so many times to the subject of the lack of a master plan? The challenge was to make money. And where and how this gave the individual what it gave to the individual region, how it protected the region in the future from the consequences, nobody cared. For that, it was all in a hurry to win the money. If this liquidation occurs, flood control measures that are estimated to require some 200 billion and urgent 10. And we had to get out of that money, and most of all, we buried it in sand and water. We've been strengthening the shores where it's impossible to find out who was strengthening them or not, because today, the blanket of the roosters is out, and tomorrow, it's gone, and there's no way to prove it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u18	Stonewall Valery Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u19	Kamchatny, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko”, Kharkiv region. I'm handing over my word for the speech so that I can ask a question to your trend report, a representative of the region who knows the truth really -- the representative of Ternopilska, Wooden Vasil Timothyovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u20	Dear Alexander Mikolaiovich, you're lying about the master plan. The general plan was adopted by the Cabinet of Ministers, and you know it very well. And the next. You also know very well and have not said anything that a representative of the Cabinet of Ministers, the Deputy Minister of the Cabinet of Ministers, has consistently participated in the work of the commission. And all the information we needed for the work of the commission was constantly, constantly being provided. Next. At one of the meetings of our commission with representatives of all ministries and departments, you personally thanked, expressed thanks to those ministries that really worked well.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u21	Thank you, colleague, for asking. Moreover, I can now say thank you to a number of representatives of the ministries. And you're gonna tell me, please, what's wrong with that? I want to talk to you about a friend who is being listened to by our constituents. And in our personal conversation with you, you spoke on your own on many occasions, Alexander Nikolaevich, hair, or return what is left of them, becoming a part of you when you meet people and they talk about the outrages that are taking place today in the development of this money. Therefore, neither with a view to burying the balance of hair, nor with a view to maintaining the balance of respect for the regions, do we require that, together with you, do not develop any plan, but show effectively that each bracelet allocated to these noble objectives has reached the performer, that you are working professionally to protect people's interests, not to develop budgetary money.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u22	John Popescu, last question from the affected area. Come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u23	Thank you. Dear Alexander Nikolayevich, I have a specific question. This is where we talked from specific regions and talked about not speculating. Worse yet, when power speculates, it speculates on the money that is allocated to the people. And here's a specific example. And how do we get out of this situation? I have in my hands a letter from the chairman of the village council of the upper petrace of the Watch Tower region. He writes that during the flood, rural roads stretching 9 kilometres, one bridge, one pedestrian crossing across the river, were destroyed on the banks of the Mali Medium River, at four plots of 1.3 kilometres long. For all these destructions, the necessary documents were drawn up and included in the master plan, urgent repairs, renovations to the Watchtower site, but no funding was made for the work in question. Similarly, in the neighboring village, the village of Jesuits of the same area, but already higher along the river, is the River Seiatel. At 1.7 kilometers, 15 million were allocated, and they did not do what they did when the money was allocated, people waited, and then they didn't come. It's not speculation, is it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u24	Thank you for asking. I mean, your question and the answer to it is in the main, it's a system of power. We have a fully balanced system of government. I told you that for three months the Commission had not been able to gather the heads of administration, the representative of the President's Administration, who had largely ignored this meeting, we had not been able to come up with common approaches, and it was the Supreme Council's fault, because it allowed such disrespect for Parliament, and that we were allowing ourselves to do the same. Therefore, there is a need to change the attitude of power, to change the attitude within Parliament. Because the obvious stuff in the report, if there's anything there, is a lie, say it's not a fact, you're not arguing on any fact, you're arguing on an evaluation of the government's work. I will never sign a report that will popularize positive experiences, problems are, problems remain, and they may be decimated if power is exercised.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u25	Thank you. Sit down, Alexander Mikolayovich. Dear colleagues, with a joint report, will speak separately to our colleague, Dmitry Vasilovich Schlemko, for ten minutes, please, and five questions and answers, and then we will go to the discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u26	Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, respected compatriots, indeed, the July 2008 disaster in the western areas of Ukraine brought the whole community together, the popular expression “Poor unites” found another confirmation. The Ukrainian people have not seen for the first time in recent years how they worked together to overcome the consequences of a legislative and executive element. Each of them faced its specific task, the Supreme Council of Ukraine allocated considerable funds, not yet seen, to deal with the consequences of the disaster, to be monitored for their use, as reported today by the Temporary Special Commission. The main burden of work and responsibility lies on the shoulders of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the local authorities who first faced the magnitude of a similar disaster. So one of the most important questions to be answered today is the next, whether the authorities in general have managed to deal with the assignment or not, which assessment is given by the people of six areas affected by the flood. From the members of the commission who have prepared this report, I would like to say that the vast majority of people express their sincere thanks to the Supreme Council, the government, the local authorities, the communities working in the areas expeditiously eliminating the effects of natural disasters, to all the individuals and legal entities who have provided relief to the victims of eastern, central, northern and southern areas. So it's kind of strange, and it's more incomprehensible, is a report by the head of the commission, which instead of the actual evaluation, the analysis of the political order made by the party that it represents, confirming that there are only three signatures under the report of the members of the committee of the region, pursuing a simple goal, criticizing everything that can be done, regardless of what is done in human misery. So after listening to the report from the head of the TSK today, he wants to say the wise Ukrainian proverb: “Let’s not look for fleas in fur, especially if they’re not there.” Of course, if it is good to fall into the documents of the Cabinet of Ministers regarding the events of the July flood, there are certain omissions. However, we ask ourselves, people, was it a major time in the critical days of the national tragedy when hundreds of bridges, schools, hospitals, kindergartens, thousands of individual dwellings, miles of roads, gasification and water supply systems were destroyed, and in general the vitality of each country was disrupted. The answer is clear: No paper was waiting for the victims, and people looked upon authority with hope as the last agency that could help them in difficult times. To the honor of the government, in an extraordinary situation he worked quickly, in part, making professional decisions adequately. Thus, confidence and business were also involved in the work of local authorities. On the second day of the flood, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Yulia Timoshenko, visited the Ivano-Frankivsky and Cherniewsky regions, organizing a large operational task-setting meeting for each of the central and local authorities, by the way, with nine working visits by the Prime Minister in the affected area. And the first Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Turkinov, organized and managed the headquarters, not from the government office, but from the affected areas. For the first time in Ukraine’s history, Ukraine felt protected, grateful to the authorities, and to many politicians who organized relief efforts. Once again, the total damage to the six areas of Ukraine was about 5.7 billion dollars, and the number of citizens affected by the flood was over 136 thousand. A government commission has been established to deal quickly and in an orderly manner with natural disasters and their consequences. State. An emergency plan for disaster management has been approved. Five special sessions of the Cabinet of Ministers and 28 meetings were organized to deal with and make decisions in one way or another. Among them, the government carried out the main tasks of financing the recovery of work in the disaster zone; providing humanitarian aid and voluntary donations to citizens affected by natural disasters; partially compensating for the costs of agricultural enterprises affected by natural disasters; and using the State Budget grant in 2008 to the district budgets of Vynitz, Ivano-Frankivsky, Zakarpatski, Lviv, Ternopil and Chernivetsk regions of the city budget of the city of Chernivs to deal with the consequences of natural disasters. The identification of priority measures to prevent uncontrolled deforestation in the Carpathian region and the artificial reproduction of forest plants. Designed and approved, once again, confirmed, as the commission head discussed, the overall plan to deal with the consequences of the disaster in the area of the victims and the sector in which the definition of the sources and the scope of funding of the general contractor and the deadlines for the performance of the work was established and approved. In total, 7,000,560 public and utility objects are included in the plan. The mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers to the relevant central and local executive authorities was to send out typical forms of household inspections that were caused by natural disasters. I recall that in the affected areas, in general, 35,000,372 individual housing units were damaged, from which to the first category, i.e. those destroyed by 1,297 buildings, to the second category, those in need of capital repairs are defined as 11,000,266 houses and to the third category those partially damaged by 22810 buildings. The Cabinet of Ministers also supported the proposal that the provision of Vinicki, Vano-Frankivsky, Zakarpatski, Lvivsky, Ternopil and Chernivsky authorities should determine the order of the organization and ensure the construction of the houses for the first category of affected families, as well as the production of appropriate project and cost-effective documentation taking into account objective circumstances, including the number of family members, etc., by ensuring the personal responsibility of the heads of the areas, the purpose and efficiency of the budget, as well as those that came into the region as sponsors and charitable contributions. With a view to operationally managing the problems that have arisen in areas of ecological emergency, the government’s home since 28 July 2008 had a telephone hotline running throughout the day, during which 8000,871 calls were made by citizens who had raised concerns about the definition of categories and payment of assistance to victims, the strengthening of shores, the restoration of roads and bridges, and other problems. 5,000 944 appeals were sent to central and local executive authorities for immediate regulation. In order to study the state of affairs related to the elimination of the effects of natural disasters, the effectiveness of measures taken by the authorities to restore housing and socially important objects to flood victims, working groups formed by representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers were dispatched. For the purpose of monitoring, an ongoing assessment of the pace and effectiveness of disaster management has been carried out. Yes, on September 22, 2008, a headquarters meeting was held with the organization of re-employment, inviting the heads of interested central and local executives. The authorities drew attention to the slowdown in the pace of housing restoration and other socially important subjects to the numerous cases of transfer of the deadlines for the completion of such work, as well as to financial disruptions and delays in the payment of citizens’ financial compensation. Regarding the financial violations that occurred in the report of the TSC’s head. Yes, July’s events last year reaffirmed the well - known truth: money, not only an economic category, but also a moral one. Especially when there are many. Costs set aside to eliminate the effects of floods have become a kind of lactus paper to test virtues such as honesty, openness, responsibility. Not everyone survived the clean hand exam. Yes, the city chief of Tisminic, Jarem Galiga District, gave illegal instructions to his subjects to draw up lists of flood victims without having to be examined previously. As a result of the wrong actions of the city’s head, the state suffered a loss of 395,000 dollars. But is this the government’s fault? When was the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to arrange for government funds made by the local authorities? Or another example. The primary administration of education and science of Ivano-Frankiv ODA sends the budget to the children's youth center “Artek” of children from the district center who live on the streets and on the fifth and seventh floors of buildings, where the water, apart from the rain that welded the asphalt, was virtually nonexistent. At the same time, the district attorney's office doesn't see this as a violation of the law, because it turns out that the President's decree makes the entire area a disaster zone, and high-level owners can do whatever they want in this area. Such examples are not a rule, but an exception. More than 150 criminal cases have been violated by the authorities in the areas affected by the disaster. They would like to be brought to a logical conclusion, and the courts have made fair decisions. A thief who reaches into a government pocket must sit where he is placed, regardless of political hue or party affiliation. And to conclude a few of our conclusions. First, the creation by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of temporary special commissions on the monitoring of the effects of natural disasters, which took place from 23 to 27 July 2008 in Vinnitsky, Ivano-Frankovsky, Zakarpatski, Lvivsky, Ternopil and Chernivsky areas, was of considerable importance, as this enabled not only to ensure the control of the purpose and efficiency of the use of budget funds, but also to mobilize executive bodies, especially local ones, for productive work. The other one. The assessment of what was done during and after the disaster revealed that the government, which was in a difficult situation, was able to make all the necessary decisions that enabled it to manage the process quickly, to provide disaster - stricken areas with both practical and methodical assistance. Third.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u27	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u28	The policy of central and local authorities, as well as the high-quality organization of disaster management measures, allowed virtually every effort to be made in 2008. However, there is still a need to pay off debt in certain areas for the work already done. Four. Taking into account that in 2008 the government approved an anti-refoulement programme, which should allow for the warning of such natural phenomena in the future, and the huge costs incurred in eliminating the effects of the flood last year, which in the absence of further work will be in vain, to make changes to the Ukrainian State budget for 2009 with a view to allocating these necessary funds. We suggest that the reports of the commission be made public. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u29	Dear colleagues, the report has been completed. Five minutes to ask. Please sign up, your honors. A question mark is being recorded. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? National Deputy Elbus Tedeev, faction of the Party of the Regions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u30	Thank you. Please pass the word to Bondiku Valeriy Anatolievich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u31	Who should I give my word to? Bondik, please. It's Bondick who gives himself the word, isn't it?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u32	No, it's not. Vladimir Mikhailovich, Elbrus Tedeyev, has passed on, and the machine has already turned on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u33	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u34	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear Dmitry Vasilovich! And tell me, please, how did it happen that you, as a member of the commission, did not participate in the examination of the facts, why did you not address in the order of article 16 of the People's Deputy Status Act with your head to the Audit Authority, which, by the way, controls the allocation, the purpose of the budget allocation? [[By the way, it's your right to have a separate opinion and to make a statement.]] As far as I know, by the way, Kabmin's already turned into pre-election headquarters, because Julia Volodymyrna said they were going to the election, and Kabmin became the election headquarters. As far as I know, Mr Sivulski is your representative, and think, by the way, once and for all, the ministers and the Sivulians themselves claim that we are "political persons". So they're not government officials, they're political people.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u35	Thank you for asking. I just want to say that at the board meetings we've listened to practically all the law enforcement agencies that have reported on the extent to which, in some way or other, the process of the development of state funds, which is to some extent misuse in the regions. And virtually every one of them made the right decisions. Most of all, the Local Audit Authority has tested and found appropriate abuses in each area. So today, when we talk about what there are financial violations, we have to make it clear and clear that there is no government party to such financial violations, because the government is directly counting money into places, not controlling it, but controlling the relevant authorities. And the authorities, by controlling them, have handed these cases over to the prosecutors. I said 150 for today's case is already transferred in. Prosecutors to the courts. Yes, there is indeed a problem today with the courts that do not fully address these issues, but I also said that it does not matter who is behind this, which political decoration or other person. He's a thief.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u36	So, who's next? Eugene Kirilchuk, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u37	Thank you. Eugene Kirilchuk, Fatherland Party, Yulia Timoshenko. Dr. Dmitry Vasilovich, you said in your report that it was a natural occurrence, perhaps once every 100 years, and it was also a natural disaster. Never has the authority of such an amount of money been allocated to this disaster, no matter what it may be. But neither reporter nor other reporter has identified how many miles of roads have been repaired and constructed, how many bridges have been rebuilt, how many new buildings have been built, how many have been repaired, how many pipelines, plumbing, electricity, and any other disaster have been eliminated during this brief historical period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u38	Thank you. Of course, two of the most important tasks have been solved during this period. The first task is to give proper housing to people who are practically without it. This is more than a thousand houses that were just demolished. And it was decided by the government that, in view of the need to resolve the issue in a timely order or construction, or compensation for these families, so that they could buy housing, by January 1st, all the people in the first category, all those in the second and third categories -- which is more than 35 and a half thousand families -- had either new houses, or they bought the compensable money of the apartment. All the houses in the second and third categories were repaired. So the housing issue was first solved. Also, extremely serious problems, as you said, with infrastructure. Bridges of different directions were. These are bridges that needed a long period of “Kravtodor”, these are bridges that began to be built and not for.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u39	People's MP Prokopchuk, faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u40	Yuri Prokopchuk, Timoshenko Yulia Block, Ravenshkina. Dear Dmitry Vasilovich! Of course, the government in this situation did all it could and transferred the funds that were being spent at the local level. This has already been mentioned in the previous report. I have this question: do you think it's effective to spend these funds and to deal with these consequences on the part of government administrations in places, or authorities that are in place, and who is responsible for it? I'm handing over the rest of the time to the national deputy Behiz, who represents the victim of Winnkin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u41	Of course, the problem of cost efficiency can be assessed only after they have been fully verified. all types of work checked. 4.1 billion dollars is an unprecedented cost that has gone to six areas to eliminate the consequences of a natural disaster. But it is indeed an unseen element that has never touched any region of Ukraine. So when today's absolute majority of people are satisfied with what's happened, because there's today where they can live, they're compensated for some of the costs of agricultural production, the roads are repaired, there's gasification and electricity going on, and so on. And when statements are made, these are dozens of statements, and we're talking about hundreds of thousands of people being affected. This is a sign that the total amount of these funds is spent on the assignment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u42	And the last question, Alexy Plonikov, is the faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u43	I give the word to John Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u44	John Popescu's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u45	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Reverend Dmitry Vasilovich, you were right when you said that people don't need papers, and people need specific help. So I want to ask you, why didn't the money that was on the paper, including the Supreme Council, and then the Kabmin, and so on? Have they not yet been issued by the Ministry of Finance? And here I'm going to give you a specific because you said "no specifics". One district at a time. The Watchman’s District. Why is there no gasification from the Keeper to the Houser and still in the Romanian - speaking areas affected? Why did not the village of Izeka in the Watchtower region cost 161 thousand dollars to make it a small cost for a pedestrian town, and there were children five miles [5 km] of the village to pass? Why did you get 15 million by 1.7 kilometers in the same place? If there's a problem and a flood again.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u46	What I'm trying to say is that nobody's lying, they're just lying to dogs. We're either here to give the right answer, or we're going to check it out. I want to say that the funds that are allocated are clearly, clearly, that if you take where the head of the commission prepared the report, look, there's a table right there on that committee, and there's a table of how much money is allocated to someone. Yes, you're asking for Cherniewsky. So there's 521.2 million allocated to Montenegro, and there's an allocation for that, and virtually all of that money came in.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u47	That's a different situation. This should already be asked of those who were in charge of the local funds. So you're anchored by the region of Cherniewecki. Ask them why they did not come, and do not turn to the problem of government. The government did not manage this. He listed funds to the administrators, to the governors.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u48	Thank you. Time's up. Dmitri Vasilovich, sit down. Dear colleagues, your offer, please. We need to finish our consideration of the matter. We have 20 minutes to talk about this. Let's finish the question, make the decision, then call it a break. Is there no objection? A record of the national MPs ’ statements in the discussion is being announced. Please, dear fellows. Please put the names of the people's deputies on the board. We have 20 minutes. Kamchatny, Ephraim, was enrolled. That's not him. What record did we have twice? I'm asking you to cancel the recording, let's write it down, we have one list, three deputies, and then a large list, that's not clear. Aah!? It's from the factions first. I'm sorry, first the factions, then the MPs. Stoney, I'm sorry, dear colleagues. Kamchatny, then Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov. Please. The factions have a guaranteed right to speak, so is there a Kamchatny? Vladimir Bondarenko, please, then, Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u49	Vladimir Bondarenko, Timoshenko Yuli Block. Dear friends! We're looking at a question that's extremely important to that corner of Ukraine that we call Carpathian, Carpathian. It's about people living in extremely difficult conditions there, these are mountain habitats, this is a special danger zone. And in literature, and in cinematography, we see that it's always been, but there wasn't that much trouble this year, last year. The point is that the long period of disregard for this corner of Ukraine has been manifest, and, unfortunately, the problems that have arisen there are so basic, they are not closed. But I would like to distinguish between the tragedies that occur as a result of totally unforeseeable natural disasters and those that could be predicted. And when, here, a distinguished colleague of ours began to speak a minute of silence, I want to remind you that she was already in this room, and in these moments of silence we will hardly be able to help. If anyone wanted to tie this moment of silence to the political dividends of his own, I would remind you that every day you would have to be the miners who have been killed by hundreds of companies in your one - party business in the Donetsk region. And announce the minutes of silence there, and it's also our people who are artificially killed, because you're not doing what you're supposed to do, it's not a natural phenomenon, it's an organized operation of the entire region to benefit your own pockets. And now, in fact, you say that there was little time or rush was, yes, there was a rush, people were running out of housing before the winter that was coming. In order to organize this apartment and build it, it took really haste, and the whole government was sitting there, and Julia Timoshenko, and Alexander Turchinov, and ministers, all worked to solve this problem, it's not easy. There are dozens of different questions, there are thieves in the local authorities, there are people who have just falsified data about where and who suffered, but this problem is largely closed. And you don't have to look for, excuse me, a little problem or some part of the problems of the unsettled, let's think about how to end this disaster and plan in our country a special program that would really turn Carpathian into a rest area, into a region of beautiful recreation, where the whole of Europe will go, not into a region of danger that has come up with cutting out the Carpathian forests in its own time, and today you want to write down all the problems that have been accumulated in the current government for years. So do not look for the garbage in the neighbor’s eye, but see the log that is in your own eye. Our prime minister used to go there, meet people freely, not be afraid that someone would throw an egg at her, she was actually going on a feat, to eliminate the trouble. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u50	Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov is referring the right to speech by Jaroslav Sukhoma. Please, from “Our Ukraine ” who will speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u51	Honorable colleagues, here in this session room, have rightly discussed the need for consolidation, the efforts of political elites, the need to unite the efforts of all of us, all of us branches of government. Instead, we hear a sharp, negative, crippling historical reaction to the normal report of the normal commission. I've heard a lot of reports from the committee from the third call, whether I think it's the only one where the question is calm, clear and consistent. You, the majority, are now doing bear service to the government, you're reacting so harshly and so loudly to any critical remark. You can't do that, you're taking away this government from any perspective, and it's wonderful that the other guy just came out of the office and told me about the mythical grateful people who are happy here. Thankfully, you have been heard by those people, especially from villages where roads are never repaired, where gas supplies are never restored, where houses are never repaired. But that doesn't warn me. I don't want to talk about government and this power right now! The pathological, mythical lies of today’s authorities become Ukraine’s main card. Hypocrisy, cynicism, that's not what this is about! I am alarmed by the fact that more than a hundred criminal cases have been violated as a result of the purposeless management of the funds that would have gone to eliminate the consequences of the disaster and prevent a new disaster. Thus, these crimes have not been brought to an end. Who's in love with whom? You're talking about locals and I agree. Dear colleagues! But today we have a fine reason to talk about the lack of political structural reform. Who are responsible for eliminating the consequences? Is it the political power that won the election? Is that head of administration appointed from Kiev? You're saying that this constitutional reform is not necessary. But the opposite is necessary. We are not insured and continue to be parasites in Ukraine. The main reason is that we fear responsibility. I'm surprised today, you know, the commission is carrying out a huge number of examples. Look at the report of the commission, the members of the commission, three signatures you didn't sign. So what? The money didn't get to the end, the roads weren't repaired. Spirit factories that were supposed to buy wet grain, if purchased, at a high price, and then completely stopped buying. The houses aren't restored. Well, who denies that the government along with us has taken an active part in eliminating the consequences? We talk about what we can and can do better. If you say it's the crown of the creation of your government, it's the price. And stop "piercing"! The Prime Minister himself was, well, this is her work, and it's wonderful that Alexander Turchinov was there, and thank them! And the honor and praise of those who took part in the liquidation.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u52	National MP Crnvolenko, faction "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u53	Dear friends, having listened to the commission’s report, should pay some attention to some of the inaccuracies expressed by the reporter. This must be explained by some political involvement. So for example, he accused the Ministry of Emergency Situations of not using money for purchases, so transport equipment, airbag specters, mobile cleaning stations, and so on. We have to point out right away that the commission could get a clear understanding of this and there's information that this is the money that has been taken from the Cabinet of Ministers' Reserve Fund in the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers, that is, completely legitimate use and more, that's what they had to be for, because that's exactly what's necessary for the proper functioning of the Ministry of Emergency Situations. For all the work that was done, 55 percent of the car bridges were rebuilt. Of these, 88 are damaged. 88 percent of pedestrian bridges, 80 roads, 82 percent of shores, and so on. That is, 99 percent of health care facilities, 99 schools. These are numbers that say that work is going on, and if we don't everywhere see figures that are close to 100 percent, I think the problem is that the Supreme Council didn't fully fund these jobs. Well, let's say every year we have to put a few billion dollars on the shoreline so that we don't have to do that. This number has to be constant, but this number always has to be fought for. Now the underfunding of this program is about one and a half billion dollars. And in general, in order to complete these jobs, now in the Ministry of Emergency Situations, about half a billion dollars would have to be added for this year. If changes are to be made to the budget, these figures will have to be taken into account, and they will have to be included in the preparation of the 2010 budget. We too need to take more seriously the financing of jobs related to forecasting, eliminating consequences, and warning of natural disasters. As evidenced by the global situation and the environmental situation in Ukraine, these problems are worsening. And we need to be ready for them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u54	Yeah, now from now on, one minute, we're not done with factions. It's from the factions. Finish the speech, then. From the Communist faction, please, who will be speaking? Peter Simonenko. People's deputy Beavs is transferring the right to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u55	Respectable colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! In discussing the principled issue that Ukraine is reporting today, as evidenced by the consequences of this natural disaster, I would like to reiterate the following. In fact, we heard the comments of the letters received today. There was no in-depth analysis of what the real power had done to deal with the consequences of the disaster. I want to draw attention to the following. Four billion greaves were allocated. After that, it's $800 million. Speaking of the previous two, let's say that this kind of money has been made, billions of dollars have been allocated to deal with the consequences. There were new areas that could be built for this money. I would therefore like to draw attention once again to the fact that, in considering how the funds were used, it is important to recognize that the Ministry of Emergency has failed to perform its functions and is unable to resolve in very short, short periods of time, short-term issues. This is the case for the lives and health of several million Ukrainian citizens. Second. Turning to the reserve, I would like to emphasize once again that we have not heard that the reservoir is ready to provide the necessary assistance today with building materials and other various materials to deal with the consequences. We have witnessed with you that at the time when we had a flood in the western regions of Ukraine, the Gosresevre advertised Bush's “scissors” and described how important it was to be able to store Bush's “scissors” rather than to provide construction materials for the conditions of these emergencies. Another fundamental conclusion: The Cabinet of Ministers, i.e. the official executive power, has been incapacitated because it is not in a position, firstly, to institutionalize these tasks, and secondly, it does not have an integrated approach to addressing these problems. I also draw attention to the fact that the President and his team, in fact, I am convinced of this, sabotaged these tasks because the heads of administration are, above all, subordinates to the President and they have not done so. And another fundamental problem. Our people suffered and the people suffered from the results of the flood, and it was because they were putting it all in their own pockets, and that is the opinion of our citizens. And the last one. If we are talking about the consequences of this flood, the main problem and the main problem we have is orange power. And today we need to understand that fighting the scourge is the first thing we need to do is to rule out the orange team. And I reiterate that both the Prime Minister and the Ministry of Defence confirm that Yushchenko must be retired immediately today, and that he should be considered criminally prosecuted in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u56	Dear colleagues, the factions are over. Did all the factions come out? Yes, we are now moving on to the speeches made by the National Deputies. The word is given by the national deputy of the Woodland instead of the national deputy of Shishkina. Please. Next is Michael Kossov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u57	Honourable National Deputies, Ukraine’s Cabinet of Ministers to eliminate the consequences of the natural disaster in the Ternopil region, according to a Supreme Council decree, allocated 96 million 90,000 dollars, that is, the full sum. However, it was found that only 51 million dollars were allocated to affected areas after the check of October 22, 2008, which was 53.5 per cent, and there were no funds at all for schools affected by the disaster. Taking into account the unsatisfying state of allocation of funds to the affected areas of the first Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine, Alexander Turchinov, on 6 November 2008, created an interdepartmental commission to study on the site of reconstruction work to eliminate the effects of natural disasters in the Ternopil region, which included representatives of ministries and state committees. The interdisciplinary commission found numerous violations. Like the 273 objects included in the Impact Plan, the November 11, 2008, report is available for 243 objects, 81 of which are not started or defined by subcontractors. The Commission also found that the level of funding was very low, and 951,000 of the contributions that were paid to one of the district administrations were not used at all. The Commission has established that DP “Ternopilski oblovtodor” is not involved in the implementation of capital and current road repairs. As a result, only 33 roads of 230 were completed during the repair work. As a result, it was harmful, that is, in spite of the decisions of the Ukraine’s Cabinet of Ministers, that the operation of the head of Ternopil’s ODA led to the loss of a job order. Yes, according to the U.S.A. authorities, rural heads have put into repairing public roads with private contractors, where only seals and bank accounts are available. The involvement of such private entrepreneurs of questionable backgrounds led to inadequate repairs. I would like to point out that, effectively in order to prevent and eliminate financial abuses, the police and the Audit Authority have been able to operate. At the conclusion of my statement, I would like to state that both the Prime Minister and the whole Government have provided quality and coordinated work to assist the people of the areas affected by the July disaster. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u58	Thank you. Mikhailo Kossov, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u59	Mikhailo Kosov, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, “Reforms and Orders”. So many today have been called on from various sides of our hall not to politicize this tragedy, not to resort to populism. And unfortunately, every speaker first calls for that noble work and then comes back and does the same thing that he's fighting against. So, colleagues, I'm not going to do that and I'm not going to give any grades. I want to get our attention back, everyone, to this hall that came together at the end of July last year, and there was the scaffolding, and we were doing the allocation of funds for the affected areas. And for me, it's a very painful subject, because many of those cities and villages that were called here, as for many of you, are family towns. The main mistake we made at the time was that we allowed the local authorities to manage the funds allocated by the Cabinet of Ministers. This is where it all started. The Minister's office has allocated enough money, but I remember when Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, Prime Minister, collected our faction and said, well, you know, they're not going to make any decisions. Therefore, we have to accept that these funds should be made available locally. What's wrong? More than 100 criminal cases. So what's the deal? We are to blame, first of all, and we are to blame for the contradictions that have been established in the Constitution, which have enabled this abuse to occur. And so, your fellow Members, let's take our next decisions out of the interests of our constituents, not out of the interests of one political party or another, because if all the funds that have been allocated to the liquidation of accidents were handled by the Cabinet of Ministers, and if all the ministers, and the Prime Minister, and the Deputy Prime Minister, had been able to allocate these funds themselves, there is no doubt that the consequences of the terrible that we have today would not have been. So let's take the blame.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u60	Thank you. The final performance of John Popescu instead of the national deputy Potapova.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u61	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Masterful colleagues! When the Supreme Council met urgently after the flood of 2008 and allocated the necessary funds during the extraordinary session, it was the BUIT who insisted on concentrating all the funds in the government’s hands at the first level, and even a decision was taken. But thanks to the position of the deputies from the affected regions in this room, a decision was made to allocate funds to specific objects. And that was true, because it added operationality to restored jobs. What I am saying is that I have the right to speak, since I was the only member of the budget committee in the region from Chernobyl at this time and kept in constant contact with each district. I've got people in the district where they've been hurt. My assistants worked there, and along with the district administration, we did everything we could to make sure that all the objects arrived. And we thought we were working quickly, and the money would reach people.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u62	Gusuk, by the way, arrived the next day. Only he wasn't on the committee floor. So you don't have to yell from the hall. The commission should continue to work because tragedy can be repeated this summer. Because neither the strengthening of the shores nor the financing nor the completion of all the work give us any reason to be calm here. I will give a few specific examples of those objects that were identified as injured. The documents were filed and included in the Henplan, but no money was allocated. And tragedy can happen again. I will quote a letter from the head of the village council in the Watch Tower region, where representatives of today’s authorities are in power, in the local authorities. I read the original language. “A list of sites included in the master plan for emergency repairs at the premises of the S.O.S. District in the village of Gornji Petrovtsa. First. Restoration of rural roads, only 9 kilometres, amounting to 1 million grivens. Restoration of bridges, only one bridge, amounting to 308,000 bracelets. Third. Restoration work on a pedestrian crossing through the Small Sirec river, just one pass, amounting to 149,000 bracelets. Fourth. Restoration of the small Sirec river, only four plots, with a length of 1.3 kilometres, amounting to 10 million 463,000 bracelets.” Why do we ask that question? Because the money was taken. The object was not defined. Once again, however, “no funding has been made for the rehabilitation and reconstruction data, and no work has been done”. Dear colleagues, if we finish the work of this commission, we will add a plus to the Government and local authorities, and this may happen again this summer. That's why we have to.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u63	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Clearly, a simple obvious problem has led us to a political understanding of our relationship. It would be good if this committee report were heard by communities on the spot. Obviously, then, they would be determined how real the painting is. We try to put political interests first. And now we need to make a draft decision. Attention, please prepare for the vote. The draft decree is given to you. We agreed that the sixth draft of the ruling would be deleted, we would delete, and therefore I would vote on the adoption of the draft decision on the basis of deletion of paragraph six. [[12:22:16]] For 401 Decision taken. Now, if you'll excuse me, dear colleagues! If there's no warning, I'm voting on the draft ruling as a ruling, or as a whole. Please vote. Registration number 4377. [[12:22:46]] For 403 Decision taken. Now, pay attention, a few questions. Dear colleagues! We have the demands of two factions -- the factions of the Party of Regions and the factions of the Communist Party of Ukraine -- for a break, one minute. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm asking if you'd like to make an application. [[B in m in s a l in]] . A statement, one minute, a statement or a recess? Wait, I'm asking you to calm down, please. Please make a statement. Dear colleagues! If you have agreed to make an application, please make an application. Okay, second of all, I'm going to put a motion to the vote right now, I've got a committee head coming up to me, and we've got everything else to finish. I'll tell you everything. Listen, please. We agreed that we would now put to the vote, before the recess, if we insist, on the consideration of the issue, on the consideration of the issue of the oath of judges, on the return to the consideration of the Act on the Admission of Foreign Forces. And the chairman of the committee asks that we adopt the law in a new edition that we postponed yesterday on physical culture and sports. So I'm going to have a proposal, so let's hold the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine with the finalization of the issue of a new draft law, taking into account the admission of foreign troops to Ukraine and the draft Law on Physical Culture and Sport. [[new editor]] Then, let us give up the “Victory”. Will you support me? I'm putting a motion to the vote, please. [[12:25:01]] For 216 The decision is not supported. I'll put a second sentence on the vote. Please, Adam Martinyuk, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u64	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, let us really do as you suggest, but as we discussed at the Conciliation Council. So we've discussed at the Conciliation Council that the question of whether we're going to go back to voting on the law of admission is going to be decided by the session room and the question of whether we're going to take, make an oath today, will also be decided by the session room. So separately you put these two questions to a vote and separately put a question to the vote, a request from the committee for us to adopt the law on physical culture and sports. Every single question we're going to solve in one or two minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u65	Okay. Dear colleagues, such an offer, let's look for compromise. I am voting on the proposal that the Supreme Council of Ukraine today consider making an oath to the members of the Supreme Council of Justice of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:26:20]] For 217 The decision is not taken. I am voting on the proposal to return to the draft law on approval of the decision of the President of Ukraine to admit the forces of other states to Ukraine in 2009 for participation in multinational military training. [[Registration number 4212]] Please vote. [[12:26:55]] For 133 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues! And with that, let's do it this way, I'm going to the Supreme Council of Ukraine! We don't understand the situation. In accordance with the Law and Rules, the Supreme Council of Ukraine should consider making an oath to members of the High Council of Justice. The fact that the Supreme Council of Ukraine has not sworn members of the High Council of Justice is a problem of the Supreme Council of Ukraine because the documents of the Supreme Council of Ukraine were filed at the right time. Therefore, dear fellows! I would ask for the next plenary week to ask this question and to perform the function that belongs to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. There is one problem that I want to inform you about. And the committee doesn't object, he doesn't deny that members of the High Council of Justice Kravchenko Kostin Timofijovich and Barbara Valentin Petrovich are having problems with the High Council of Justice of Volkov, there are trials. So I'd like to ask you to look at all the material that's going on there, and let's look at the issue of taking an oath at the next plenary week, if you didn't support it today. It is not the problem of these people that the Supreme Council of Ukraine sees political implications in this regard. Deal? Thank you. And now, my dear fellows! Consider the Law. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's wait for the application, I remember everything! For us to consider today the draft Law on Physical Culture and Sports. [[new editor]] [[2562]] Please vote. [[12:29:08]] For 310 Decision taken. All right. How are we going to proceed now? [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, let's work this out. They're about to make a statement, yes. We'll get to the point. Then, at 13 o'clock, it is time to announce the “Variance”. So let's cancel the "Variance" then today? Well, we're good, we're good. Well, it's a regular impurity issue. Well, then, what are we doing with the application or the break?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u66	Well, please make a statement. After that, do we consider the matter? That's the deal we made with you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u67	Dear colleagues, I wish to make a statement today from the faction of the regions regarding the catastrophic situation in the coal sector. But before I speak, I would like to draw the attention of our colleagues today, and my colleague spoke before me about the problem that was being discussed today, which began to compare with the problems in the coal industry, especially the deaths of miners. Have fear of God and your conscience. What are these comparisons for? So I tell my colleague that not only does the miner work in Eastern Ukraine, but they do in Western Ukraine. And on that tonight, I'd just like to not do it next time. Dear colleagues, over all the years of independence, but you know, the coal industry is a very complex, specific industry, so there are a lot of unresolved problems and wines, including, I think, the Supreme Council when we consider the coal sector budget. But for the first time, I stress that there has been no such incident in the coal industry in 17 years of independence. When at the beginning of 7, then seven more miners, 14 miners of the Chapaev Mines did not leave the mine for nine days. The media are talking about this, and the Prime Minister knows it, and the Minister of the Coal Industry knows it. We've had cases like this, well, for a maximum of two days, we've found a compromise solution to the problem. What is the problem with these miners? These miners are now in a rental company. Although the Ministry and the Government say they are private enterprises. I'm telling you all so you can understand. Don't lie. These are rentals that the Ministry has wasted in due time because of the lack of funds. Today, they do not consume the budget. What they are asking, the only coal they are extracting today, is a state-owned enterprise called the State-owned coal company, which has become a state-owned business. That's the way it is today. Today we know that last year, I called the Chapaev Mine the Zdanowska mine, the Lighthouse. They have no access to coal today. But today there is, and we know it well, dignitaries, which through state-owned enterprises, are using coal through the UK Coal GP. And there's a representative of the U.S.U.T. in charge today, you know that. That's why I want to say it today. With this approach on the part of the Government, the problem of the coal industry, I stress once again, has never been the case. And that's what I'm trying to say. That there is no better situation in public enterprises. Today, only net wages are paid. The warrants.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u68	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u69	Taxes don't pay anything. And you know, the last accident on the Novodzerzhinskia mine was a disaster. When they came to see the question, no money, no bolts, no groves, no woods, no shovels, nothing. Two hundred thousand in a firefight. That's the situation today. So saying that coal is very good is not fair.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u70	Thank you. Thank you, thank you. Dear colleagues! Let's go now. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm asking you, just one minute, just calm down! Please! I'll get it! I'll give it to you, don't yell! Dear colleagues, listen to me, you don't want to listen! In view of the fact that we have voted with you to consider the draft Law on Physical Culture, and in view of the fact that it takes an hour to listen to the report on Kiev in accordance with the Rules, such a request is made that we forward the report of the Commission, the Temporary Investigation Commission on Kiev, to the next week, and that we now have to consider the issue that you supported, namely: this is the draft Law on Physical Culture. [[new editor]] Oleg Easy, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u71	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, just a representative of the opposition, told how they cared about miners. I want the miners to know, in Donetsk, in Lugansk, in other regions, that yesterday, the budget committee was looking at passing over the government to allocate 500 million dollars to miners. The money's extra for the salary. And this decision was not made precisely by blocking the issue by the representatives of the Party of the Regions. And today they go out to the rostrum and say that, you see, the government doesn't care about miners. In recent years, the government has purchased more than three million tons of coal, made an energy supply. In the past 17 years, this has never happened. The government spends billions of dollars a month paying people their wages. These hungry miners, we feel sorry for them, but they're miners on a private mine, and there's a private TEC that belongs to the opposition, so take and buy coal from them so people can stop starving to get paid.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u72	Thank you. All of it. Please, Alexander Ephraim. Do you have a replica, too?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u73	Dear colleagues! I would ask you, especially in an emotional form, not to parasitize miners on the plight of coal mines, just because coal cuts are on the eastern territory of our State, the Government has no right to put these enterprises on their knees. As for the rental mines, believe me, colleagues, in our time, we've already passed this data when the State leased and then I personally collected this mine for two years ago, because they were unable to meet the responsibilities that stood. Therefore, it is important to approach the problems that exist and to allocate money not by hand, but should be recorded in the State budget, and the Minister of the Coal Industry should know how much money he has, not see when someone comes and gives him something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u74	People's MP Klimenko and we're moving on to the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u75	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like us to take down the tension a little bit. First of all, if the representatives of BUT don't realize that 3 million tons when they're in TEC warehouses today, that's the first thing that don't work for the economy of Ukraine; that coal is going to be a much worse quality. That's the first one. It's different. If this is about private businesses that are not receiving any money from the State budget, and the state today is not holding out, spending no money on their maintenance, they really need to help, help them not to buy coal from the holes that Mr. Turmanov said, he said absolutely right in the Luhansk region, in the Donetsk region, it's a business that is criminal, shadowy today, and extracts coal that is not worth more than 100 bracelets. Now here's the next one. I'd like to make a note of the safety issue. Today. It was just that terrible accident that took place on the Novozyrzynski Mine. Why are we silent about Carl Marx's mine? When the minister said it might be one of the workers, from the miners.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u76	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please let's calm down on this. We need to consider a very complex, responsible law, namely the amendment of the Ukrainian Law on Physical Culture and Sports and other legislative acts of Ukraine. It's actually about a new version of this law. The report invites Paul Kostenko, head of the committee of profile. Please. And let's work on making a decision today, your esteemed colleagues. And I'd like the deputies to be in the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u77	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Thank you very much for agreeing today to consider this law, which the country is looking forward to for almost 17 years. The committee discussed at its meeting on 4 February 2009 the draft Ukrainian Law on Physical Culture and Sport. [[Registration number 2562]] In preparation for the committee’s second reading, 282 amendments were made, of which only 27 were rejected after the addition of an additional comparative table. In making the relevant decisions, the committee took into account the comments and suggestions made by the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, proposals from ministries, government, experts in the field of physical culture and sport. The committee is very grateful to the employees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Chief Legal Authority for their assistance in preparing the bill for second reading. Based on an analysis of domestic and foreign experience, a new draft of the bill lays down legal rules on compliance with the standards set out in the Olympic Charter and the UNESCO International Charter on Physical Education and Sports. At the same time, I'd like to draw your attention to Amendments 128, 140 and 159. [[in article 17]] [[Article 24]] [[Article 31]] A comparative table was given to you yesterday, and today it is available in each of the deputies in the hall. Initially, at a committee meeting in preparation for the second reading of the bill, these amendments were taken into account. But the point is that they were supported by a system of relationships in the sport of disabled people that took place in previous years and is now in operation. On May 20, however, the Committee decided to reject the amendments. Articles 17, 24, 31 do not take into account that today there is a Constitutional Court decision to limit the State’s interference with the exercise of the right of citizens to freedom of union, which in turn calls into question the constitutionality of the amendments I have made. In particular, amendments 128 and 159 create a network of centres of physical culture and sports for disabled people who are part of the management of the Ukrainian Centre for Physical Culture and Sports, which are subordinated to the central executive body in the field of physical culture and sports. The Ukrainian Centre for Physical Culture and Sports of Disabled Persons is a budgetary organization. However, as amended, the National Committee on Disabled Persons’ Sports manages the activities of the Ukrainian Centre for Physical Culture and Sports, which violates the Constitution and requires full funding from the State budget. In addition, Amendment 140 of the National Committee on Disabled Persons gives the rights of the coordinator of the development of the Ukrainian Paralympic and Defolimian movement, which, according to the Constitutional Court’s decision, violates article 36 of the Constitution of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u78	Dear Paul Ivanovich, I think we can move on to amendments, considering that we have a limited time and that we still have a “various” today. Dear colleagues, there is such an offer that we will now move to work with the amendments, and start working with those amendments that the committee proposes not to take into account. And later, if there are any comments about the amendments the committee recommends to take into account, if there are any objections to returning to them and putting them to the vote. Will there be any objection to such a procedure? None. So let's move on to the amendments. The first amendment the committee proposes to reject is amendment number seven of the Kurilo People’s Deputies. Vitaly Semenovich insists on considering this amendment?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u79	We're not from 158, we're starting from the first. There's no insistence on a national MP. The following amendment is also made by the People's Deputy Kurilo, number 13. Is he insisting? Don't insist. The next amendment the committee proposes to reject, number 22, also by the national deputy Kurilo, does not insist. 24th Amendment, People's Deputy Kurilo. Is he insisting? Don't insist. Amendment 52, People's Deputy Kurilo. Don't insist. Amendment 72, National Deputy Bodnar Olga Borisovna. Please, the microphone. National Deputy Bodnar Olga Borisovna
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u80	I'm waiting. Thank you. I want to say right away that I've had some consultations with the sportsmen. And so for today, 72th and 280th, I'm not going to insist on them. But I cannot help but take advantage of the opportunity to welcome the Ukrainian archery assembly that won two gold, one silver, at the intermediate stage of Munich yesterday. I want to remind the hall that our congregation performed very well, an archery assembly, at the Olympics. So this is what I want to say today. The situation that exists in the free system of the issue of sports weapons makes it impossible to obtain weapons for our collectives in a timely manner. And removing these amendments won't solve this arms problem. That's why I'm officially asking the Ministry of Internal Affairs to provide for a simplified system in part of the permissive nature of shooter sports, with the provision of a permit for weapons.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u81	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u82	The issue of weapons for the sport of firearms is no less than a year. Please consider my speech to the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u83	About the 72, 270 amendments, don't you insist? The next amendment that the committee proposes to reject, 84, is the national MP Kurilo. Don't insist. 88th Amendment, National Deputy Shamanov, insists? Don't insist. 92 Amendment, People's Deputy Kurilo. Is he insisting? No, it's not. 95 amendment, People's Deputy Kurilo. Don't insist. 101 Amendment of the People's Deputy Kurilo. Nor does he insist. 117 Amendment of the People's Deputy Kurilo. He agrees with the committee. A series of subsequent amendments are all included, and here is National MP Kurilo 168. The Kurilo National MP does not insist. 172 amendment, National Deputy Suškević. Please microphone of the people's deputy Suškević.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u84	I'm asking you, 128, my amendment was, I've got a plate, I'm asking you to support it, dear colleagues. Physical culture and sports of disabled persons, the physical culture and sports system of disabled persons I'm asking all factions, dear friends, for your support, please. Support our paralympics who have shown what they have done and how they can win, I ask you to support this amendment. 128th.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u85	Dear colleagues, you have two tables on your hands, what Suškević has just announced will be considered later, because this amendment is in an additional table that is added to the main table. We have now completed a number of amendments made to this table, and then we will move on to the next one. Regarding amendment number 172. So, I understand that National Deputy Suškević does not insist. 191 the amendment of the Kurilo Committee suggests that it be rejected. The MP won't deny it. 224. Amendment of the People's Deputy Suškević. Don't insist. 237 amendment of the people’s MP Suškević, the committee proposes to reject. People's deputies agree. 266 amendment of the People's Deputy Suškević. Don't insist. 268 amendment of the People's Deputy Suškević. Don't insist. 269 amendment of the People's Deputy Suškević. Don't insist. 270 amendment of the People's Deputy Suškević. It's okay. 275 amendment of the People's Deputy Suškević. It's okay. 280 Amendment of the People’s Deputy Bodnar Olga Borisovna 280th. You agree. So the amendments that the committee proposed to reject in the basic table we considered. Now, please take an additional table, in which part of the other amendments. Amendment 128. It's counted, the committee's offering to take it into account. The 128th amendment of the people's MP Suskević's committee proposes to reject. Please, the microphone of the People's Deputy Suškević.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u86	Dear colleagues! This amendment defines the physical culture and sports of disability rehabilitation, the state system of physical culture, and the sport of disability rehabilitation. It showed today its efficiency and reality in what's touching the work in this direction, you know, as a result of the work of this system. And I very much ask all factions, please support people who by means of physical culture and sports help people with disabilities to enter a healthy life system. I'm begging you to back me up!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u87	Please, Paul Ivanovich Kostenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u88	Amendment 128 of Article 17 is rejected because the subordination of the network of centres of physical culture and sport, disabled persons, exclusively the Ukrainian Centre for Physical Culture and Sports of Disabled Persons, is contrary to the Ukrainian legislation on local government administrations and local authorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u89	Dear colleagues! I want to support the committee head. What's proposed here is beyond even constitutional norms. However, I am voting on Amendment 128 of the People's Deputy Suškević. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:53:37]] For-72 Correction not supported. The next amendment is the 140th National Deputy Suškević. Are you insisting? The Microphone of the People's Deputy Suškević.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u90	Dear colleagues, you know, I'm just surprised by the situation. When we talked about the Paralympics, when we were excited about the results, and now we're voting against what's actually going on in the work today. This bill is written on the basis of the Government's decrees, the President's decrees, the decisions of the government's administrations are all provided for by the applicable rules of the regulatory framework and has been introduced into the bill. I'm begging you to support me, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u91	Paul Ivanovich, please, your point of view.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u92	The Committee's decision in article 24 of Amendment 140 has been rejected, since it suggests that the National Committee on Disabled Persons' Sports of Ukraine will ensure Ukraine's representation in three different complex international competitions between the Paralympics, the Deflimpics, and the global games of athletes with intellectual disabilities. While the National Olympic Committee of Ukraine represents the state in just one international competition, it is the Olympic Games. The sports committee of Ukraine is only playing worldwide games of the Olympics. In addition, the amendment contains a standard for managing the public organization of the National Committee on Disabled Persons' Sports of Ukraine and the budgetary organization of the Ukrainian Centre for Physical Culture and Sports of Persons with Disabilities, subordinated to the central body and executive authority in the field of physical culture and sport. Which is in contravention of the requirements of the Ukrainian “Convention of Citizens” Act. In connection with this justification, we have proposed a standard according to which the status of the relevant National Committee of Disabled Persons is granted on competitive grounds only by one of the public organizations of physical and sporting orientation in the order established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Such an approach will ensure a level playing field between citizens and the development of disabled sports.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u93	Well, the argument's exhausted. I think it's the same problem as the previous amendment. Nevertheless, I am voting on amendment 140 of the people’s MP Suskević. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:56:13]] For-92 Correction not supported. Next amendment No. 159 of the People's Deputy Suškević. Are you insisting? No, it doesn't. We have thus concluded our consideration of the amendments on which the Committee recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine reject them. Now I am addressing the National Deputies, what amendments does the Committee recommend to the Supreme Council to support, are there objections to the National Deputies? Please, National Deputy Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u94	Yuri Carmazin. Using what is now a committee representative on the rostrum, I have a note to take into account 157 amendments. This is about physical training and sports in the Armed Forces, other military formations. This is article 131. Paragraph 379 was discarded because article 31 was presented in a different edition. At that, it begins immediately with the form and content and organization of physical training. And the fundamental position that has shown that the physical training of these people is an integral part of the overall system of training and training of the armed forces and other military formations and is aimed at ensuring the physical readiness of the individual to engage in professional activities is thrown out. I don't know why it's done. This significantly makes the law worse. So I'm asking you to leave the old editorial behind, except for this item. Let's keep everything else. So I'm asking you to vote on this point. Or maybe the committee will.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u95	Paul Ivanovich, please, your argument?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u96	The committee reviewed the bill several times. And I said at the beginning, 282 amendments came to the committee, including the Ministry of the Armed Forces. This amendment is therefore taken into account and is reasoned, in line with the Ministry of the Armed Forces of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u97	However, National Deputy Carmazin asked the question that he did not support the recommendation of the Committee on Amendment 157. In this regard, by exercising the right of a national MP, I am putting to the vote Amendment 157. Please identify yourself. The committee recommended her support. [[12:59:06]] For-44 The decision is not taken. Thus, the text will have to be edited, bearing in mind that this amendment is not supported by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the text of the first reading remains. Please note that there are other suggestions or warnings in the National Deputies against recommendations made by the Professional Committee where they recommend that the amendment be taken into account. Is it? Once again, National Deputy Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u98	Yuri Carmazin. I thank the national deputies for their support of my position. I would like to see 34 more articles “Physculture and Health in Pre-Prison Institutions and in Enforcement Institutions”.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u99	Yuri Anatolyevich, repair number, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u100	This is the 161st amendment. It is taken into account, but consider, if the first reading says: “Citizens who are in pre-trial detention and in institutions of execution are guaranteed the possibility of exercising physical and health activities.” So this is about meeting the requirements of the Constitution. It now sounds like this: “Those who are in pre-trial detention have the right to exercise.” This narrowing of the rights of Ukrainian citizens who are temporarily deprived of their will is a violation of the Constitution of Ukraine. And I demand that this amendment be eliminated, it's wrong, it's unconstitutional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u101	Paul Ivanovich, your point of view.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u102	I agree with the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u103	I'm voting on Amendment 161. People's deputies would like to be determined about their support. [[13:01:17]] For-42 Correction not supported. Let's go back to the first-reading text. Also, please, what are the proposals of the Ukrainian national deputies. Please, Paul Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u104	The proposal came from the people’s deputy Suškević. Article. in the comparative table of article 120, article 24, in order to accept the valid wording adopted in the supplementary table without the second paragraph. Status
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u105	Paul Ivanovich, I'm sorry. Please correct.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u106	This is article 24.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u107	Correction number, please!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u108	Correction number 128. In the end.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u109	Amendment 128 has already been voted on.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u110	No, it's this way.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u111	We've already voted on the 128th amendment. Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u112	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u113	We have already considered this question! Please, from the people's deputies what proposals. You don't? I will. National Deputy Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u114	Yuri Carmazin. Thank you. I thank our colleagues who study the law for the text of the law. I'd like to see the 175th amendment, it's very important. It's about professional sports. It was defined in the first reading as “a commercial direction in sports activities related to the preparation and conduct of spectacular sporting activities at a high organizational level with a view to earning profits”. And then it went "as an activity" and so on. In the second reading, this amendment is essentially worsened compared to what it was given in the first reading. So I'd like to say no to 175, so put it back on the vote and not back up, because we're making the law worse, and why make the law worse? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u115	Amendment 175 shall be put to the vote. Please determine for support. [[13:03:43]] For the four of us. Correction not supported. So now, we're removing the proposal that was recommended by the committee. What amendments do the national deputies of Ukraine have to make? None. There is a request for this bill to listen to Deputy Finance Minister Vladimir Makarovich Medvedchuk. There's a denial. [[B in m in s a l in]] Adam Ivanovich, I ask: is there a denial of national MPs? There's a denial. Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk is denied because this is not about the amendment of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Thus, we will not give the floor to the Deputy Minister of Finance. We have exhausted all the suggestions that have come from the Ukrainian national deputies regarding the amendments that the committee has recommended to support and reject. I am voting on the adoption in the second reading of the draft Law amending the Law on Physical Culture and Sports. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:05:17]] For 221 The decision is not taken. What's the committee's offer? By factions, please show me. Region Party – 170, “Julia Timoshenko Block” – 5, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” – 19, Communists – 27, “Litvina Block” – 0. The chairman of the committee proposes that the law be amended for a second reading. I am voting on the proposal of National Deputy Kostenk Pavel Ivanovich to send the draft law to read again. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:06:07]] For 370. Decision taken. I ask the committee to work more closely on the draft law so that it can take effect. Dear colleagues, the recording of the “Victane” is being announced. Jaroschuk Vladimir Ivanovich, please. Vadim Koleschenko, please. Vadim Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u116	Dear colleagues! The Party of the Regions faction, Vadim Koleschenko. Under the noise of political battles and scandals, taking advantage of the fact that the people of Ukraine are now exclusively engaged in the struggle for their physical survival in times of crisis, President Yushchenko continues to attempt to destroy the Russian language and languages of national minorities in Ukraine. To that end, the Head of State, in agreement with Kabmin Timoshenko, is planning to vote on a bill amending the Law on the ratification of the European Charter of Regional or Minority Languages. As experts, representatives of nationalities and parliamentarians have repeatedly stated, this presidential-government bill, registered in the Supreme Council on 15 September, aims at the de facto destruction of the European Charter of Regional Languages and Languages of Minorities and the human rights guaranteed by it. Indeed, it is the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the European Charter, which is intended to protect non-State languages historically used outside the territory of a particular State, that stand at the present nationalist authorities of Ukraine as a bone in the throat. In 2007, Ukraine first submitted a report to the Council of Europe on the implementation of the Charter. The State report was then fully criticised in an alternative report prepared by me and the group of human rights defenders. To our criticism and the specific comments of the 17 sections supported by statistics and the Ukrainian legislative base, the Ministry of Justice did not find anything to answer but simply quietly sent its report to Europe. In the spring of 2008, Ukraine was the subject of a special visit by a delegation of experts to the Committee of the European Charter of Regional Languages. The information received on discrimination against the Russian language and other minorities in Ukraine was shocking. An alternative report on the implementation of the European Charter can be found on the table of the UN, OSCE, UNESCO and the five committees of the Council of Europe of PARE, the EU and other bodies. Taking into account this report, the other Commission of the Council of Europe, the European Commission against Racism and Intolerance in its third report on Ukraine, adopted on 29 June 2007, recommends that the Ukrainian authorities ensure the adoption of a new Language Act that takes due account of the linguistic diversity of Ukraine as soon as possible, and that representatives of minority groups, non-governmental organizations, the public at large and that their views are taken into account as far as possible. The Commission also strongly advises the Ukrainian authorities to amend article 161 of the Criminal Code in order to prosecute anyone who incites racial hatred and hatred. The Commission once again recommends that the Ukrainian Government include race, colour and ethnic origin and language as a basis for protecting human dignity and feelings.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u117	The National MP, Horin Irina Anatoliyevna, hands over the right to speak to the national deputy of Kolesnick.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u118	The European Charter for Regional Languages, which is expected to be published in the coming months, seems to have brought together the President and Kabmin to end the Charter. To do so, they plan to change the title of the law in the first place and to insert “regional or minority languages” instead of “regional or minority languages”. Such language is needed to recognize all languages other than Ukrainian, minority and, as some nationalist leaders have interpreted, extinct. Thus, for example, the Russian language, which was recognized by the 2001 census, by 17 million Ukrainian citizens as native and by sociological data, more than 60 per cent of Ukrainians use it every day, will be artificially degraded, reduced to the margin, deprived of any prospects for official status even in regions with the total advantage of the Russian population, such as the Crimea 90 per cent, and in Sevastopol 93 per cent. [[or 30 million citizens]] Of course, all minority languages in Ukraine will suffer, but they are probably doomed to become a sheep by the plans of Ukrainian chiefs at the slaughter of the great goal of the destruction of the Russian language in Ukraine and the construction of a monolinguistic and monoethnic State. Moreover, in order to finally achieve the Russian language, a novel was introduced into the bill, in which the Ukrainian language, which is a state language for today, would be further protected and floated in the Republic of Crimea, Dnepropetrovsk, Donetsk, Zaporozsky, Lugansk, Nikolayevsky, Odessa, Harkovsky, Herson oblasts and in the town of Sevastopol. This is with 90 per cent of schoolchildren in Ukraine learning Ukrainian language, working in governmental institutions, and the judicial system should be conducted exclusively in Ukrainian. The national languages have been removed from cinematography and are being actively printed on air, as if the President had decided to recognize the Ukrainian language as dying. And he's probably right in part. Every year, he dies to half a million Ukrainians. And the tongue goes forth with them. It is clear that it is not worth sneezing against the enemy forces, but it is the President and his supporters who are the main enemy of the Ukrainian language. The Party of the Regions will not allow a depraved policy to involve Parliament in language games, nor will it allow the adoption of a violation of human rights in the Presidential Bill amending the Law on the Ratification of the European Charter or the “Languages of Minorities” until Parliament is blocked. We have introduced more than 20 bills from the Party of the Regions that allow for the resolution of language relations in Ukraine and for the protection of the rights of minorities. It is these bills that require early consideration, adoption and voting in Parliament. We will thus prove that Ukraine and its wealth are not monogamy, not monogamy, but in the diversity of languages in various spheres and the most important in the protection of human rights. This is the most important and final for the Party of the Regions. And only then will our Ukraine be united when the rights of everyone, even the smallest Ukrainian, are protected, although every Ukrainian is great in himself because he is building an independent state of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u119	National Deputy Kzarkovy Evgen Igorovich. He is also given his right to speak by Victoria Alexandrovna Demyanchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u120	Respectable voters! Respectable Ukrainian People's Deputies! The Ukrainian followers of Hitler, without hesitation depicting the swastika on their flags, claimed that on 16 May 2009, a week after our people celebrated the 64th anniversary of the victory in the Great Homeland War, they would gather in Kiev for their first socialist congress. And the democratic power of its name did not consider it necessary on that day to shake its finger to stop the brown Sabbath. Before long, our leader, Peter Simonenko, on behalf of the faction of the Company of Ukraine and all those who consider themselves to be the successors of the winners, warned, at the level of the State of Ukraine, by means of government telegrams, the Genprocurate, the Security Service of Ukraine, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Ministry of the Nationalist Shabash. Also on behalf of the faction from the rostrum, we have warned all factions of Parliament. But the fact that such an assembly has become possible in a country that has paid for the defeat of fascism by millions of lives in the city of Babi Jar, the largest brotherly grave in the history of the victims of the Nazi palace and the servants has caused real anger and resentment. The Yushchenko-led nationalist regime has been in the process of rehabilitating and planting nationalism since the first day of its existence. With his support in Ukraine, humane descriptions of Third Reich charges are publicly distributed, xenophobic newspapers are published, monuments are destroyed by Soviet liberator soldiers, and Hitler Special Forces agents in the line of military criminal Shuhevic are officially reported as heroes. The strengthened regime of nationalists and oligarchs is aimed at turning Ukraine into a fascism planter in Europe. This was illustrated by the recent elections in Ternopol, where Yushchenko was supported by law-abiding freedom and was able to obtain a third of the votes. But the fact remains that on 16 May the Nazis still arrived in Kiev for their Sabbath. We had information this morning that the event would take place in the House of Trade Unions, headed by the Hara region. And if you wanted to frame your parliamentary colleagues, you would just shut up and give the nation the opportunity to gather in the union hall and then break it up in all the media throughout the country. However, the response to our warning did not follow. At 3 p.m., the men in uniform, perfectly organized, swastika on the form, began to enter the building. And when the Kievers and the normal patriots of the country had no other choice, we blocked the neo-fascist event by removing documents that indicated the written intentions of such an event, thereby helping the Federation of Trade Unions to avoid political trouble. Of all the strengths who really helped on the eve of the great Day of Victory not to defile the honor and memory of the Soviet cause, only the members of the Ministry of Internal Affairs appeared, for which they were greatly grateful. Under Kiev, they stopped several buses with militants who were taking off from Harkov and Poltava, and they were perfectly equipped. And remember, they probably didn't forget the fact that they put face down last year, including specialnaz, Berkut and Falcon. Indeed, if the Ministry of Internal Affairs hadn't delayed these fighters, we would have had very disastrous consequences in dealing with law-abiding agents. It's just as surprising the position and the BSI. But what's surprising is, you know, in the people of the SBU they call “the service of the banding of Ukraine”. On that day, instead of preventing violations of the law, the Constitution and the international conventions of the United Nations, the law of Bandera at the National University of International Relations taught Bandera to be rehabilitated with a book on Bandera and Shuhevich in his hands called for a chaotic division of the country. And what's left of the notion of "guarantee," as you know, went to Bykovna and made a mess of it. Taking apart the anti-communist story, the one who, along with Paul Lazarenko, “chemichil” at the bank “Ukraine” set up a level of Nazi and Communist ideology. He spoke of those who were reprised for treason in the Stalin camps, and he kept quiet about those who drank coffee in the Nazi camps. And that makes sense. They are the heirs of the “receptive” and the traitors who raise their children in the examples of Mazepa and Bandera. And we are with you and most of us, heirs of the winners. Ukraine must finally finally be cleansed of the symbols of the communist regime, as stated by the President of Ukraine, Victor Yushchenko, on the territory of the National Reserve of Bykovnian Graves during the events devoted to the memory of victims of political repression. And in this regard, on behalf of the faction and all the honest citizens of Ukraine, I call upon the Messiah, with a three-percent rating, a clear example of an ideal betrayal symbol and a pervert, a citizen who, thanks to the great promotion of the Soviet people's right to life, received free education, attended a school of military training in the bodies of the KGB, Victor Yushchenko's KPCS member to begin an irreversible process of moral self-destruction of one of the unsuccessful symbols of the communist regime and the Soviet era, himself. [[& Tiles]] [[& Tiles]] Because even a member of your faction, Victor Andreevich, and your administration, they had you in mind, as they say in Odessa. Not long ago, we saw an example of optimism. One of your cousins, Victor Andreevich, is your wife's relative, an ex-worker of the U.S. Congress was in Odessa on the issue of the interests of the U.S. health care provider number two, Youth Guard. I expected different things, but I didn't expect one to come to meet the asset in a beautiful bright mother on her chest, who had a symbol of the Communist revolutionary Chigevare. And that's our pride, and that's our truth. Victory will follow us!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u121	The people’s deputies Hrapov and Cibenko hand over the right to speak to Catherine Semenovna Samojlik.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u122	Thank you to your colleagues for having the right to speak on behalf of both the faction and on behalf of the mentioned Ukrainian national deputies. Honorable colleagues, respectable Hersons, respectable builders, many suffering machine builders in our country. I want to convey your concern today and I wanted to be heard in both the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the President of Ukraine, and the Ministry of Prompolitics, and the Ministry of Agriculture. Today, it will be deadened and virtually destroyed, just by our construction. Once such powerful enterprises as the Herson Combinary Red Star, the Kharkiv Tractor Plant and other enterprises have virtually remained useless to our nation. All of this leads to people shrinking. They lose their wages, they lose their right to exist in that country. I just want to give you one example. That we remember recently in the Hersonian combine, one of the experienced workers was hanged by his station because he saw that it was impossible to survive and live in that country. Another, after receiving a meager salary, was unable to bring it home with joy. I want to address all those who have been commissioned by the Prime Minister of Ukraine to give advice on supporting our country's development. You forbid it, Julia Volodymyrna, by your decision to import foreign technology. And that's right. Because I don't understand how you can invest in a foreign economy like that, pay wages at the expense of our people, create jobs there? I'd like to ask the Prime Minister why your assignment regarding the allocation of the appropriate amount of money from the Stabilisation and Association Fund and within a week's time almost three months ago you entrusted the Ministry of Propolitics, the MinAPC, to the lysing company to develop a schedule for the directing of money to these, our domestic machinery companies. It's been almost three months, and your ministers are doing everything they can to prove to you that we can't do either the tractor or the combine. Look at the harvest on the nose. And the ministers did everything they could to practically destroy these factories. It's time for responsibility. I realize that those who purchase state funds and order foreign technology, combines and tractors receive bonuses. But please tell me, from what you receive, do you have the right to sleep peacefully, you have the right to walk quietly on this earth, knowing that thousands of carbuilders have no money to buy a piece of bread today to buy a bottle of milk? I think the time has come when we should all say, or you work for Ukraine, or where you go, for God's sake, or where "John Dire" is produced, or where "Don" is produced, if you are unable to work properly. For the death of humans, hunger must be their responsibility. I would like to remind the Prime Minister of Ukraine that you have entrusted the holding fund to verify why 51 percent of the shares of Hersonian motorists are in the holding fund, and why were they sold and transferred without a decision to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine? There are two judges, the Herson Economic Court and the Zaporez Court of Appeal, who say that all the laws of Ukraine have been violated, that everything needs to be done to restore the giant and the pride of our machine-building to state property. But everyone is silent, everyone in trouble is just making money! As a result of this and in response to the request of my countrymen, the Hersonian combine builders, we have registered today the Law of Ukraine on the Return to State Property of a Whole Property Complex, the Hersonian Machine Plant to the State. The number of this bill is 404. I believe that we can still raise the honor and glory of the country's machine builders, but to do so, it is necessary for the government to work, not for the sellers, but for the patriots of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u123	Alexander Pavlovich Popov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u124	Dear colleagues, it has been a month since the end of the heating season in our country, but the problems of housing and utilities continue to be relevant. And even though we have six months to prepare for the upcoming heating season of 2009-10, we have lost almost one month at this time. I would like to recall that in order to be properly prepared for this serious test, at least five major issues need to be addressed on a country-wide basis. The first question is to prepare technical engineering networks for the communication of housing and utility equipment. This will ensure a stable financial and economic situation in the industry. This must ensure that energy resources can be obtained at affordable prices. This must ensure the capacity of the main consumers, the population and the budgetary organizations. And, of course, an effective governance system must be placed at the top of the agenda. Very briefly for each of these paragraphs, I will say that, with regard to the technical situation this year, no amount of money is invested by the State in addressing this problem. This problem has now become a problem of local self-government of the territorial communities, but we know that there is absolutely no funding at this level, because budgets with enormous deficits have been adopted. An example of this is our capital city of Kiev. With regard to the financial and economic situation, it has not been so negative in the history of the independence of our Ukraine. Over 10 billion grevens are debts to housing and utilities for energy consumption and other expenditures. In addition, if we take the situation in the national stockholder company Naftegaz Ukraine, we will see that this business is indeed without the help of the State, without adjusting the State budget, it will not be able to receive and transfer natural gas to consumers, especially the imported natural gas, because the debts of this company already amounted to more than 60 billion grevens, and 34 billion are credit resources taken from each other during the heating season. In Ukraine today, payments have been sharply reduced, and budget organizations have a debt of 500 million. With regard to the management system. To be honest, it reminds Krylova’s “Lebed, Cancer and Hammer” at the highest level of government of the State of one position the local situation is quite different from that of the municipalities. In this regard, our committee decided in a substantive manner that on 3 June we would hold committee hearings on training matters.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u125	Finish up, Alexander Pavlovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u126	Preparations for the upcoming heating season. I invite the heads of local government and the heads of utilities to move forward with their proposals, which we will take into account in the preparatory process for this important meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u127	Ksenia Mikhailna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u128	Xenia Lapina, group “For Ukraine! ” I want to go back to the problems of small business in Ukraine. Yesterday, two important events took place: an open meeting of the government, where the government solved some of the business problems; and there was great care: more than 2 and a half thousand people were taking care of the Supreme Council first, and then an open meeting of the government of Ukraine. They came with economic requirements and wanted to bring these economic requirements to all leaders of the parliamentary factions, as well as to the Ukrainian government, to the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Unfortunately, the prime minister of Ukraine never went to entrepreneurs. Some of the chosen were sitting in the hall, others, real, those who work daily and pay taxes, stayed on board -- they weren't heard, they didn't hear the problem. And the problem is very real: they simply cannot comply with illegal Government Order No. 366, which has imposed additional, and very important, to contribute to the Pension Fund, which is forced to pay off the smallest entities of small businesses. For them, tax obligations have increased threefold or more. [[Think about it!]] I would like to point out that, to be objective, the government has made several useful decisions, such as a decree that has duplicated the moratorium bill for verifications. We welcome the adoption of this decision, but we point out that unfortunately, the settlement of this problem by the government's decision will not be effective because the authorities of the state that exercise State control are acting in accordance with the law and will ignore the ruling. At the same time, the most important issues came out of this decision: the issue of tax control. That is what affects the most subjects today, especially small businesses. These are issues the government is trying to ignore. Finally, yesterday, a committee meeting was held on the subject of tax policy, at which it was finally considered. For three months now, the bill on the tax moratorium has been submitted by me and representatives of the "For Ukraine" group. Finally, yesterday it was considered. Yet the position of the government, as presented by the representative of Minfin, is once again negative. Moreover, a government representative in the person of the deputy minister of finance has informed us that the government is going to raise taxes. Today, during the crisis, to raise the single tax primarily, that is to say, to resolve all budgetary problems at the expense of the smallest entrepreneur. It's totally unacceptable, anti-economic and anti-moral. And this is at a time when the government firmly refuses to report real information about the budget. He hides it, as we do not require real information. What is really going on today with the decline in GDP? Bo.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u129	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u130	From small entrepreneurs, we hear about a significant reduction in the extent of their implementation, which is, in fact, the GDP of the country. I'm just talking to everybody -- both the citizens and the political leaders -- we have to support, first of all, the small and medium-sized business, and it's the Ukraine that will get out of the crisis, but without support, and also with extra stress, Ukraine will never come out of the crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u131	National Deputy Koleschenko Vadim Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u132	Respectable colleagues, respected citizens and residents of Ukraine! The problem of language for today is indeed very complex, relevant and objective. All of us, especially language professionals and philosophers, recognize that literacy is a disaster. Young people do not speak either Ukrainian or Russian. This was the result of an active Russianophobic policy that has led to the destruction of the human right to use its native or national language. Romanian schools, Hungarian schools, Russian schools are closed. People whose mother tongue is the cradle of his own kind, his own tree, and his genetic code, according to the real Ukrainians, are being destroyed. Should Ukraine accept this? No, you shouldn't. That is why, in Sevastopol, the parent society, concerned that the State is destroying the right of the inhabitants of Sevastopol, the right of the children of Sevastopol to be the citizens of society, has gathered to the popular parental assembly and has raised the issue of the ribs before the city council: to ensure the right of children to use their mother tongue, to ensure the right of children not to be of the second class, but to be equal in Ukraine. Therefore, the City Council decided to amend the school code, to amend the school line, which stated that education was to be conducted in Russian with a study of Ukrainian. [[It was already in the charter, since 2000, which stated: To teach in Russian]] However, the Ukrainian Nazis from the rostrum of Parliament, without considering the subject, demanded the dissolution of the Sevastopol City Council, criminalizing people who care about the future of our State, and made numerous unfounded requests. They thus showed the beastly trunk of nationalism. This is a dangerous disease that needs to be eradicated in Ukraine. In Ukraine, only human rights should be in exceptional order. If we are seeking Europe, human rights are a priority and a priority. The human right to language, to culture, to history, to religion and only after that is the State that ensures the realization of these rights, not the realization of ambitious, fascist or other idiotic intentions of individual politicians. I believe, I know, I know. As an example. Sevastopol schoolchildren receive diplomas and medals at all Ukrainian, world Olympics in Ukrainian. This indicates that in both Sevastopol and Ukraine, people respect other languages, other peoples. But if we respect each other, we will achieve unity in diversity. Only then will Ukraine flourish in a single vein of different nationalities and languages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u133	Kulikov Kirilo Borisovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u134	Dear colleagues! Respectable compatriots! Today was the issue of the report of the interim commission of inquiry on Kiev. This is a global, serious problem that concerns not only Kiev, but also the whole of Ukraine. We are the interim investigative commission that worked under the Law on Temporary Investigative Commissions, which has worked for a hundred years. And I can be proud of what I've been doing, really in the community of professionals and very literate people. And this commission of inquiry took a consensual decision, 10 out of 11 votes and voted in favour of the commission of inquiry. It was not possible to make that decision in the hall today. Because of time, we failed because we did not understand in a number of factions. But delaying the issue of Kiev is like death today. Kiev is on the verge of a major technological catastrophe. All areas of governance have been destroyed, and today if we do not start to resolve this issue together, we will lose Kiev, the historic cultural capital of our country. Today it is not a matter of orange and blue and white. Today it is a matter of continuing the lives of us, our children, our parents. Today, there is nothing to be proud of for Kiev, but tears today, what we see happening in Kiev. Today, complete medicine is destroyed, today culture is destroyed, everything we were proud of is destroyed. But that doesn't mean that we put our hands down, that doesn't mean we're going to give up, that doesn't mean we're going to leave the citizens behind, that doesn't mean we're going to quit fighting for the Kievs. Nope. If we didn't give up now, if we didn't agree to all the contracts, promises, promises. That doesn't mean we're gonna give up. We will protect this city, and we will listen to everyone and make it possible to live in this city. Today in the city, life is impossible, today it is not just me, my colleagues, that is a challenge for everyone. Today the city is not ruled by a manager. Today the city is ruled by a call that aims to destroy this city, and I love it, I won't give it up.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u135	Gordijenko Sergey Volodymyrovich. None. The National Deputy of Paris hands over the right to speak to the People’s Deputy of Arjevetina.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u136	Stanislaw Arzhevtin, a deputy group “For Ukraine!” I would now like to make a statement as the first deputy to the Committee on Finance and Banking, considering that yesterday was a gross violation of the rules when I passed the bill, which I will now talk about. In accordance with paragraph 48 of the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council, please include my statement. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Finance and Banking emphasises that the adoption of a law on the protection of property rights in such a way as to insist on the leadership of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, ignoring and disregarding the professional and professional evaluation of this bill by our committee, could lead to the collapse of the banking system, as it would make it impossible to secure legitimate creditors' requirements for repayment of loans, artificial bankruptcy of banks, mass non-refundation and the threat of non-cash payments in Ukraine. The National Bank of Ukraine has repeatedly reported to our committee on the inadmissibility of adopting the bill in such a way. Under significant circumstances, such a bill does not support the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Sufficiently substantial comments are made by the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. Since the beginning of the work on the bill, the committee has taken a position in the context of developing mechanisms to balance the interests of citizens, banks, and the state. This was the direction of the committee when it was decided to consider the issue of the protection of the debtor’s property rights in a comprehensive manner in preparation by the committee for the second reading of another bill under the heading 3585. The committee twice addressed the Head of the Supreme Council with a reasoned and reasoned request for consideration of the first comprehensive bill 3585 and then yesterday 3459. But with the breach of the legislative procedure, yesterday's declaration that the social protection of citizens was supported by a group of deputies of the bill. As of January 1, 2009, the mortgage portfolio of banks accounts for over 100 billion dollars. The bank's capital is 124 billion dollars. Thus, the default of loans and the formation of additional reserves will result in the loss of banks. The introduction of temporary administrations in these banks, the automatic freezing of deposit payments, the issuing of loans, the making of payments. The above circumstances forced our committee to contact the Committee on Rules of Procedure to clarify the situation. What regulatory acts regulating the activities of the Supreme Legislative Authority of Ukraine allowed the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, without the participation of a professional committee, without obtaining the relevant documents, to bring this bill to the discussion and adoption of it as a whole under the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I refer to the subject of credit relations not to make hasty conclusions and plans before the final settlement of the matter, but to the Head of the Supreme Council, I ask you not to sign the bill until then.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u137	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u138	And to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, please do not sign this law until it has been formally concluded by the Legislative Committee and reviewed alternative bill 3585. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u139	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u140	Honorable National MPs, respected citizens of Ukraine. From this high rostrum, I want to go to the Ukrainian government, to the Ministry of Health about the use of immediate measures to ensure the protection of the life and health of Ukrainian citizens through the revitalization of the Ministry's organs in the field of security control and the quality of food, which is more recently mentioned, resembles the genocide of the Ukrainian people. Because according to the Ukrainian Food Safety and Quality Act, the Ministry of Health itself is the body that approves the mandatory parameters for food safety and regulations and good practices in food production. What is it really? In determining the safety of food, our ministry still uses the medical and biological requirements and health standards of food and food quality number 5061 89. That is, confirmed more than 25 years ago, which have long since met the current requirements, since a large number of food contaminants, primarily pesticides, hormones, antibiotics, microtoxins, and so on, have not been used for more than 25 years. For example, there are only three hormones that have long since been used by food producers. While there are more than 20 leftovers of hormones recommended by the WHO Joint Office in EU countries. This is despite Ukraine’s commitment. No document of the MOH is valid today and therefore no control of food raw materials and food products especially dangerous contaminants, which include dioxins, benzoperens, and transisomers of unsaturated fatty acids. This has been the case with the EU since 93 for the detection of benzoprene in food products. Even since 96, such control has taken place in the Russian Federation. In Ukrainian, in Ukrainian, in Ukraine, this is not done in the country. As a result, hydrogenized vegetable fats and their mixture with unsaturated fatty acids are imported and used in food production up to 60 percent of our country’s territory. While in the Russian Federation the limit is no more than 8, in Denmark 2, in other EU countries, Israel is no more than 5. Our Ukrainians are 12 times stronger. Thus, the population of Ukraine, with the silent consent of the MOH, consumes well - knownly dangerous products for life and health. There was also a misunderstanding about the use of food supplements. We have been given permission to use a wide range of supplements that consist of sodium salt carboxymethylcellulologists – E 466, which is the main component in the production of paper glue. In combination with soy protein, it has meat. Such policies legitimize the distribution of counterfeit meat products. I want to.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u141	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u142	I want my address to be considered at the M.O.S. College. And if the MOH is unable to change the situation, the entire management of the Ministry of Health will have to be changed. I'm paying attention to the government and I'm pointing out that most of the products that get into ice cream, candy, biscuits, waffles, melted cheeses, chips, dried potatoes, are consumed in large quantities by children and young people, and that's how we destroy our generation. We will not destroy the citizens of Ukraine and our nation from extinction. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u143	People's MP, Litwinov. None. The National MP of Samofal. None. People’s deputies Matthew and Danielenko hand over the right to speak to Marina Volodymyrny Perestenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u144	Marina Perestenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Dear voters, more than 150 years ago, the distinguished classic of political economy, Karl Marx, said that there was no crime that the capitalist would not commit in the prospect of earning a profit of 300 per cent or more. The fundamentality of this principle is taken with great pain and tragedy by the citizens of post-Soviet Ukraine, in particular the Crimea. In the pursuit of light and rapid gain over the 17 years of Ukraine's sovereignty, emerging capitalists, merchants, bankers and other members of the so-called elite have managed to break down the factory and factory, mine and mine industry, light and heavy industry, and have managed to bring to ruin a developed socialist agriculture based on unique Ukrainian blacks and a scientifically sound agricultural system. It is bitter to note that per capita population of two or three hundred lands, Communist China exports to us, to Europe and to other continents, rice, soybeans and other food products, while a poor Ukrainian citizen, having more than two hectares per capita of still fertile land, is forced to buy three-way overseas vegetables, fruits, genetically modified soybeans, raps, corn and other products. What is the reason for such a devastating situation? The answer is that most of these are enriched, not by production, but by fraudulent feeding of already existing foreign mainly state wealth. Today, everyone hears the egregious raid of 5,000 peasant pies in the villages of Pescano, Vilino, Bachchisarai, Bachchisarai Autonomous Republic of Crimea. The delinquents who wished to eat from the peasants had cancelled the decision of the village council on land degradation. By decision of the Bahchisarai District Court, the act was unlawful. The Court of Appeal also left the decision of the Court of First Instance unchanged. And here, by magic, is the ruling of another court of appeal already in the city of Sevastopol, repealing the previous two. As a result, up to 6,300 hectares of coastal land, the real masters of which are farmers of various Crimea nationalities, are still not used. Gardens and vineyards are devastated and the social sphere is completely destroyed. The fate of people working in the fields for 10 years is of no interest to anyone. Many of them are already retired and belong to a socially vulnerable group, and since Ukraine has not yet adopted a law on raiding, true pie masters cannot protect themselves from new attacks by land-privatizers. That is why plans are being drawn up and seizures in other agricultural areas and the Crimea and Ukraine as a whole are spreading. Ukraine's criminal land policy has come to be held accountable. Therefore, I would like to consider my statement to be a request for a violation of the land rights of the peasants of Pescano, Vilino and Beregovo Bahchisarai region of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, and by decision of the faction, please consider the statement made by the people's representative of Tzarkov today from this rostrum to be a request from the faction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u145	National MP Bondarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u146	Dear radio listeners! Respectable squires! Today, I wanted to address the issue of the work of a special commission of inquiry led and led by our colleague Kulikov, which dealt with the activities of the Kyiv city authorities and the massive violations of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine that were discovered during the commission's work. Sadly, though, the hearing was postponed, and I would not want to waste my time. So in particular, I want to ask four questions today that I would like to include as a parliamentary request to certain institutions that control the rule of law and order in Ukraine. First. I asked a few questions about the use of urban public transport to block the actions of the Kiev city opposition. In the winter and spring of this year, hundreds of buses were taken off routes to block the Crusader, so that the opposition could not reach the city’s Kiev authorities there, and that it would not be possible to say a word, killing all the information that was coming, signals and so forth. The answer to my questions was that someone had ordered these buses, it was not clear who had ordered them, and that no damage had been done. I'd like the D.A.'s office to confirm whether there's been any damage or not. The second question concerns 10 million money collected from the kyans to install apartment counters and house counters for hot water and heating. It was the Chinese who collected this money, counting it as a special counting fund. Unfortunately, the four answers that I received indicate that no one wants to understand why this money was used for absolutely no purpose. Kyivenergoholding, whose leaders are sitting in the Party and factions of the region, is likely to block the consideration of this issue in the Attorney General’s Office, which is to some extent subject to this political power. The same is true of the island of Bugs. It is a recreational area where thousands of Chinese have been resting and resting today, but in due course hundreds of hectares of land have been distributed to the Kyiv students. Then there was the prosecution's protest that they had suspended the action, and now I'm reading that the household court approved, canceled, more faithfully, rejected the prosecution's protest, and the prosecutor's office is surprisingly not continuing to fight in the Supreme Court without filing a cassation complaint. And the last question, which one is in the same series. I conducted an investigation and found that a huge amount of oil, which was a spare on the Kiev TECs, was sold to unknown businessmen. By contrast, the Chinese frauds had raised 71 million dollars. The case investigated by the police was transferred to the prosecutor’s office, and it was missing. I haven't been able to find the end of this case for a month, so I'd like to ask the Attorney General to give me an answer as a national MP, where this case is, and why are they trying to confuse it without allowing it to be concluded in court? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u147	People's Deputy Beales. None. Gnutkevich Yuri Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u148	Yuri Gnatkevitch, Yulia Timoshenko Block. Today, Ukrainian national patriotic forces celebrate the 148th anniversary of Taras Shevchenko's burial. For us Ukrainian patriots, this day is associated with our independence from all empires. I'll remind you that in 1914 Vladimir Illich Lenin wrote that the ban on the 100th anniversary of Taras Shevchenk's birthday proves once again that Russia was and remains a prison of the peoples. Thanks to God, Ukraine has become independent, and Taras Shevchenk’s credit is great. I would like to return you, dear colleagues, to the broadcast on the TV channel “Ukraine”, where the murder of student Maxim Teaki was committed in Odessa. Savik Schuster then asked a question such as: “Ukraine for Ukrainians” is patriotism, nationalism or Nazism?” But when we put such slogans and such questions, we should talk about the historical context in which they were born. The slogan “Ukraine for the Ukrainians ” was a continuation. Hence, exile from all over Ukraine of foreigners, oppressors. That is what the author of this slogan, Mikol Mihnowski, said, is a theory of Ukrainian nationalism. Ukraine today is an independent state, and the Ukrainian people are its host, and oppressors are not today. I'm a psycholinguist, and I know the value of the term. The word “patriotism”, the word “nationalism” or the word “Naziism” are terms. And terms are words that are understood and therefore must be understood by all exactly the same. Let's go back to the dictionaries. Patriotism for all dictionaries is love for its Fatherland, loyalty to its people, and willingness to perform in the name of its Fatherland. Nationalism is an active national consciousness and ideology, and politics, the advantage of the interests of its nation. And we in Ukraine today, unfortunately, have a lack of national consciousness, that is, a lack of active national consciousness, and we have a policy of favoring the interests of our nation. In Ukraine today there are Ukrainian nationalists, and in my opinion there are Russian nationalists. The nation is a form of a historical community of people who are united in language, origin, territory, and mentality. And the word "Nazi" in terms of us Ukrainian nationalists, as Ukrainian patriots, I ask our distinguished colleagues today not to use. Because the word “Naziism” is a shortcut to the German word “national socialism” and is understood exclusively as German fascism. When politicians use the word "Nazi" they are absolutely linking it to Hitler's ideology. So it's probably not about Nazism in the context of Schuster's transmission, it's about fascism as an ideology.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u149	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u150	Chauvinism. The latest chauvinism, in turn, is a policy of national uniqueness and the inflaming of national hatred. As Ukrainian nationalists, we are asked not to call us fascists or Nazis, for we do not preach our uniqueness. And we're talking more often even about our inferiority, that we as a nation are not yet formed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u151	Thank you, Yuri Vasilovich. Stanislaw Mikhailovich Arzvetin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u152	Dear voters, respected bankers, customers of the banking system! I am forced to return to this rostrum, bearing in mind yesterday's grave violation of the Rules and the legislative activity in the adoption of Bill 3459. I would now like to speak as the head of the Board of the Association of Ukrainian Banks and make an appropriate statement on behalf of the Association of Ukrainian Banks. The Association of Ukrainian Banks appreciates the adoption of Law 3459 on the protection of property rights, such as the impact on Ukraine’s entire banking system, on its customers. While the drafters declare social protection for the purpose of the bill, the professional analysis strongly indicates that the adoption of the bill does not reach the goal set for such deputies. These populist statements demonstrate an absolute misunderstanding of the very essence of the functioning of the banking system as a balance of interests of all its parties. The law will have disastrous consequences for the capacity and viability of the banking system and its customers. The law violates the general foundations of the legal life of Ukrainian society and the Constitution of Ukraine. The discrimination of investors of banks and honest lenders of banks in relation to unscrupulous lenders of banks is unacceptable and violates article 24 of the Constitution, which states that all Ukrainian citizens have all equal constitutional rights and freedoms and are equal before the law. The law that has been passed will discriminate against a good - conscienceed borrower and encourage unscrupulous borrowers. However, a good - conscienceed borrower will find himself in an unenviable position, under this law his law of obedience appreciated by the Ukrainian people’s deputies as unnecessary conduct for the State. The bill also violates 41 articles of the Constitution, which states that the use of property cannot harm the rights, freedoms and dignity of citizens; the interests of society in this situation are those of investors in the banking system. The Association of Ukrainian Banks will request the President of Ukraine to veto the Ukrainian draft “On first-line measures to prevent the negative effects of the financial crisis and to amend certain legislative acts on the protection of property rights under the title 3459. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-22-m0.u153	Dear colleagues! The morning plenary session is closed. The next plenary will open on Tuesday, June 2nd, at 10 a.m. Good luck.
