ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, please register. Please turn on the "Council" system. [[16:03:43]] There are 435 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. I declare the evening plenary session open. We continue to consider issues related to the President’s proposals for laws adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The draft Law is being considered with the comments of the President, "On the Disciplinary Statute of the State Special Liaison and Information Protection Service of Ukraine", No. 0856. There is no representative authorized by the President to deal with this issue. From the committee is Gricenko Anatoly Stepanovich, please. The committee head is also absent from the session room. The question is out of the question. It is announced for consideration by the President's Act on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on Effective Control in the Field of Civil Protection and Technological Security, No. 0863. Reported to the Head of the State Committee on Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, Constantine Alexanderovich Vashchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u2	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies! On behalf of the President of Ukraine, allow me to inform you that the Act “On amending certain laws of Ukraine on ensuring effective control in the field of civil protection and technological security” cannot be signed by the Head of State for the following reasons. The law that came into force introduced the licensing of economic activity from design, installation, and maintenance of emergency detection systems and local alert systems in emergency situations; the identification and declaration of safety of high - risk objects; the development of localization plans; and the elimination of accidents and accidents. In this regard, it should be noted that the licensing of a particular type of business is only appropriate if other State regulations are not sufficient to ensure the proper protection of the rights, legitimate interests of natural and legal persons, the environment and the security of the State. This is one of the basic principles of public policy in the field of licensing. In this case, the law in force provides sufficient powers for the appropriate executive authorities to prevent emergencies. If, in short, existing legislation gives appropriate powers to the Ministry of Education, the local authorities of the State, that is to say, it provides for all the rules that allow proper control of the State in this area. Thus, in the event of the introduction of the listed types of licensing, there will be duplication, that is, additional stress on operators without addressing the fundamental task of improving State control in this area. In view of the foregoing, the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine is proposed to be rejected. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u3	Head of the Gacko Committee Valeri Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u4	Honourable National Deputies, the Committee on Industrial, Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship considered the President's proposal of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Laws on Effective Control in the Field of Civil Protection and Technological Security. The President of Ukraine proposes to reject the stated Ukrainian Law, considering that the licensing of the listed activities effectively duplicates the existing system of government control, and the identification and declaration of high - risk objects are to be carried out directly by the operators. The Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Expert Office, in its conclusion, believes that the introduction of licensing will not duplicate the existing system of state control in this area, but the envisaged requirement for the licensing of economic activity, which is related to the provision of services and the execution of work to carry out and declare the safety of high-risk objects, is logical. National deputies, members of the committee, believe that such a law is necessary because the issue of ensuring the proper level of state control in the field of technological security is not settled. As a result, the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship requests the Supreme Council to amend the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws (to ensure effective control of civil protection and technological security). Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u5	Have a seat, please. Again, we have the same case that we had in the morning when the committee, instead of the conclusions it was supposed to make, tells us that it would have to work. The proposal by the President of Ukraine to reject the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws to ensure effective control in the area of civil protection and technological security is therefore put to the vote. Please be sure. [[16:10:01]] For 240 The President's proposal is supported, the law is rejected. The draft Law 0858 on the amendment of article 14 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Peoples' Deputies is under consideration. [[on participation in the work of temporary special and follow-up committees]] Stannijuk Marina Ivanovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u6	Good afternoon, honourable chairman, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! Ukraine's Act of 17 May 2007 “to amend article 14 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Ukrainian People's Deputies”, voted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 29 May 2007, cannot be signed by the President of Ukraine for the following reasons. Such a law provides for the extension of the rights of the Ukrainian national deputy to participate in the work of the temporary commissions of the Supreme Council by allowing him to participate simultaneously in the work of a temporary special and temporary commission of inquiry. In doing so, the proposed edition of part two of article 14 of the Ukrainian Law “On the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine” provides for a listed right for the Ukrainian National Deputy, which does not form part of any of the deputy factions. The Constitution of Ukraine is known to establish that each Ukrainian deputy belongs to a corresponding faction, not as his right, but as a constitutional duty. Considering that, according to the Ukrainian People's Deputies Act, the election of Ukrainian National Deputies is conducted according to the proportional system and the election of Ukrainian National Deputies is held solely under the electoral lists of candidates from political parties, election blocs of political parties, the position of the law that has been signed by the President of Ukraine, which in fact foresees the possibility of non-representation of the Ukrainian People's Deputies as part of a parliamentary faction, does not correspond to the Constitution of Ukraine. In connection with the proposed Ukrainian President, an article on the first law that came to be signed is proposed: first, to make such changes to article 14 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Ukrainian People's Deputies. The first item is the first part of the paper: first, the Ukrainian national deputy, in agreement with the respective MP faction, may be elected as a member of a committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and may be a member of a temporary investigator and a temporary special commission at the same time. At the same time, the Supreme Council of Ukraine ensures the proportional election of national deputies to the respective committees. Part two of the president's proposal is to exclude it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u7	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u8	At the same time, it is proposed to supplement the law that came upon the signature with provisions which provided for the introduction in accordance with the requirements of the Constitution and other provisions of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Ukrainian People's Deputies. In particular, it's part 5th, article 6th of the 13th law in force, under which the Ukrainian national deputy has the right to resign freely as a member of the deputy faction, or not to join any of the registered articles 6, 13 and 14, 18, 24th and 28th on the participation of national deputies in the work of the deputy factions. Here's the main content of the position, the President's proposals for this law. Thank you for your attention, national deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u9	Thank you, sit down, please. Who will report to the Rules Committee? [[B in m in s a l in]] Sass? Please. Turn on the microphone from the city of the national MP, Sasa.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u10	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Honorary colleagues, the Committee on Rules, discussed this issue at its meeting and decided to support the President's proposals and asked for a bill to be put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u11	Thank you. I put to the vote a proposal by the Committee on Rules, a parliamentary ethics to take into account the President's comments on the Ukrainian law amending article 14 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine. I'd like to make a statement. [[16:15:11]] For 380 Decision taken. For the reasons of the vote, Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u12	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, Mr. Alexander Volodymyrovich, I think it would be perfectly logical, because there is already a representative of the President, a bill reporter that we should have considered, I see, the head of the Grisenko Committee of Profiles. Let us consider the statute of specialty.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u13	I mean, I understand that, Adam Ivanovich, you're proposing to work with a violation of the Rules. Thank you. A draft law on the President's proposal to amend the Ukrainian Law on the National Broadcasting Board, No. 0953, is being announced for consideration. The report is Marina Ivanovna Stavniczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u14	Dear Head, distinguished National Deputies of Ukraine! The Ukrainian Supreme Council adopted on 18 December 2008 the Act "On Amendments to the Ukrainian Act "On the National Council on Television and Broadcasting" cannot be signed by the President of Ukraine on the following. The National Council on Television and Radio Broadcasting Act of Ukraine is a constitutional, permanent, collegiate body with the aim of overseeing compliance with the laws of Ukraine in the field of television broadcasting, as well as the exercise of regulatory powers, part one of the first article. It consists of eight persons, four of whom are appointed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and four by the President of Ukraine and is in charge of the appointment of at least six of its members. [[Part One, Part Two, Article 4]] At the same time, it has been established by law that a member of the National Council cannot perform the functions assigned to the National Council alone. [[Part Two of Article 3 of the Law]] Under such conditions, the proposed law that came to the President’s signature, the mechanism for expressing mistrust in the National Television and Radio Broadcasting Council, which, given its status and authority, could lead to the blocking of the body’s work, which, given its status and authority, cannot be accepted. The position of the law in question is denied because, in fact, it introduces the responsibility of members of the National Council's college body, which is formed by Parliament and the President on a parity basis only in front of one of these bodies. This, in turn, may lead to dependence, impartiality, prejudice on members of the National Council in carrying out their respective activities, which does not correspond to article 3 of the Ukrainian Law on the National Council for Television and Radiocommunication, according to which independence, objectivity in particular, are principles on which the National Council is based. Taking into account what has been said, the President of Ukraine proposes the Ukrainian Act “On Making Changes to the Law of Ukraine“On the National Council of Ukraine on Television and Broadcasting” to reject. Thank you, distinguished national MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u15	Thank you, Marina Ivanovna. Have a seat, please. Anna Mikolayevna Herman. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u16	Dear colleagues, I would like to ask the Supreme Council for time for a committee to take up further the President's proposals and additions to the President's. Since there is a very sharp and ambiguous discussion going on and on the committee too, the committee has not reached the necessary conclusions in order to offer them today to the Supreme Council, so I ask you to postpone the consideration of this issue for a later period.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u17	Please. Mikola Volodymyrovich Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u18	Anna Mikolayevno, because it was so historic that we listened to the President's representative, because in fact, when the committee didn't decide on this issue, we didn't have to deal with it. But since we have, unfortunately, entered into the consideration of this issue, I propose to support the committee head's proposal and to vote in favour of moving the matter forward. The committee in a calm environment will consider, take into account all the points of view, and we will be defined in the session room. Therefore, I am asked to postpone the consideration of this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u19	There's no objection to the people's deputies? Is there a denial? Please, National MPs, please log in from the question procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u20	I ask my fellow MPs again, because the question is.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u21	Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u22	Dear colleagues, Jaroslav Suhi, Zaporozhye, Party of Regions I don't think we have here right now in this room to demonstrate some super-regulatory purgatory, trying to figure out what you're trying to do, and you're turning an important bill into a mockery. Those who insisted on a new approach simply had to put their hand down, listen to what I said. And the head of the committee, and the honourable colleague Tomenko, who headed this committee, and who is on the subject, and Marina Ivanovna, who is here, agree that these remarks of the President need to be heeded, to approach collectively with regard to the view of all the members of the committee, to ensure their appearance to this work, and thus, we will make a balanced decision that will contribute to the development and improvement of the television information space in the territories of our independent sovereign Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u23	Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u24	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that you consider this matter immediately and determine yourself first by overcoming the President's veto. Why? The National Council on Television and Broadcasting has turned into a political body, and there are issues that virtually destroy the information space of Ukraine and Baloga today, and they are similar today to the future and modern information space, and they have dismembered it among certain clans that are now practically desecrating the information space of Ukraine, and they have a very serious impact on the awareness of our citizens. They pose a threat to national security today. Secondly, today the National Television and Radio Council consists of two virtually delegated powers from the Supreme Council, which are also vested by the President. So those of us today from the Supreme Council are out of the practical process of controlling the information space and are completely under the influence of the same oligaric clans. So I think we should make a decision today and the Supreme Council of Pows.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u25	Dear Mr. Head, if you really think about the outcome of this question.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u26	No, Hanna Mikolayevna, we've just finished the procedure, and then you'll say so. Yavorovsky Volodymyr Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u27	Honourable Parliamentarians of Ukraine, the Committee on Culture and Spirituality of the Supreme Council, are fully in solidarity with the Committee on Freedom of Speech and, in this case, with the President of Ukraine. I'm convinced that the question is too serious to be dealt with emotionally right now. Because I fully support once again the Committee on Freedom of Speech, let's carry on, let's have the committee reconsider and then we'll make a professional, thoughtful and intelligent decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u28	Thank you. Chef Roman Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u29	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! I can take an understanding of the position of the committee that wants to consider the proposals of the President of Ukraine. But I would also like to draw the Committee's attention to the fact that the proposal by the President of Ukraine is based on one legal position: repealing this law. So the position here may be either yes or no. You can't let the committee work on the law, I emphasize, the law, not the bill. This legal nature of this document is already now that it is the law. So I propose that we finish the consideration of this issue, make the appropriate decision, and if the committee believes that the subject matter of regulation is still to be defined, the next bill can be introduced.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u30	Anna Mikolayevna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u31	Dear colleagues, or we want to have a result that will contribute to the development of freedom of speech in Ukraine, the development of Ukrainian-information space, or we want to make a decision here in emotion, in the sense that we have just been called upon by the deputy, the representative of "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense", without really understanding the many nuances of this process. I ask you once again to give the committee a chance to reconsider the President's proposals, the essence of them, and to reach such a consolidated decision that will be supported by all of this room, and not to be broken down and rejected for a very long time. I ask you to listen to the information experts at times, and members of our committee are very good professionals in this field. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u32	Please sit down, Anna Mikolayevno. Dear colleagues, the situation is quite clear. The committee was unable to consider and make its proposals for comments by the President of Ukraine to this draft law. Of course, it is not good that the committee did not hold a meeting on this subject in time, realizing that the issue has already been put in order for the week, but the situation requires that we give a good look at the matter. His consideration and approval should now be postponed. I am voting on a motion to move the matter to the next plenary week. I'd like to make a statement. [[16:26:43]] For 211 The decision is not taken. Do you have a question for your vote? Mr. Shevchenko, please, Deputy Head of the Committee, for the reasons of the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u33	Colleagues, the position is very simple, if the room is ready to be defined, let's define. This is a question of different approaches. To the independence of the National Council, to the various visions. I think the question is simple enough to determine today. If the hall is ready, please do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u34	National MP Bondik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u35	Dear colleagues, and dear colleague, Mr. Andrew, you know, father for son or son for father, is a subordination, there are regulations. If the head of the Hanna Hermann committee reports. Sadly, on the Conciliation Council, they may not have been able to consider it, for this law is in order during the day. So in order to get out of this legal community, I would suggest, Alexander Volodymyrovich, that we return to the vote and satisfy the concerns of the head of the Hanna Hermann committee. And before I prepare for the second reading of this law, I will personally make proposals, which was, indeed, the independent work of this constitutional body to carry out their duties on public principles rather than on public service. I suggest you go back to the vote, Alexander Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u36	Thank you. No more offers? There was a proposal to return to the vote on the postponement of the matter. People's deputies please identify themselves. I am voting on the proposal to return to the decision to postpone consideration of the matter. People's deputies are asked to be determined carefully. [[16:28:51]] For 238. Decision taken. We'll make a decision next plenary week. The Ukrainian Act on amending certain laws of Ukraine on minimizing the impact of the financial crisis on the development of the domestic industry, with proposals from the President, is being announced for consideration. [[Number 3430]] Reportedly, Deputy Head of the Ukrainian Presidential Secretariat, Honcharuk Andri Ivanovich. Please. I'm sorry, we went back to the vote, but we didn't approve. I'm sorry. I am putting to the vote the question of moving the issue of the comments of the President of Ukraine to the Act on the National Council of Ukraine on Television and Broadcasting next plenary week. Please be sure. [[16:30:00]] For 275 Decision taken. The next plenary week will consider this issue. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian laws on minimizing the impact of the financial crisis on the development of the domestic industry is being published, with proposals from the President. Please report to Stavnichuk Marina Ivanovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u37	Dear national MPs, distinguished members of the government! The President of Ukraine suggested rejecting the Ukrainian Act of 18 December 2008 on amending certain Ukrainian laws to minimize the impact of the financial crisis on the development of the domestic industry, resulting from this. First. By January 1, 2011, the Act exempts the payment of import duties for equipment and the combined production of goods groups Nos. 84, 85, 90 of the OCHA, which are not produced in Ukraine and imported into the customs territory by industrial enterprises. In addition, basic funds, materials, equipment, equipment, and kits are exempt from the payment of import duties and the value added tax, which are imported by industrial enterprises in order to create new productions with the introduction of energy-saving technologies, including imports of goods such as contributions to the statutory funds of these companies. This provides for the order of imports of such enterprises, and the volume of goods is established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. According to the President of Ukraine, the granting of the government the right to establish lists of industrial enterprises and the volume of goods to which the benefits are extended does not correspond with the constitutional provisions under which the system of taxation, taxes, congregations are established solely by the laws of Ukraine and the regulations on the equality of all subjects of property rights before the law. The first part of article 92, part four of article 13 of the Constitution of Ukraine. The Act conflicts with the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2005 and with certain other legislative acts implementing five-year monitoring for the provision of new and expanding existing benefits other than those granted for the purpose of stimulating energy conservation measures in accordance with legislation. The other one. Section 2, paragraph 2, of the Transitional Regulations of the Act by 1 January 2011, establishes that the purchase of goods, jobs and services for public funds is carried out in domestic producers of these goods, jobs and services, except goods which are not produced in Ukraine. These measures are not appropriate.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u38	Please finish Marina Ivanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u39	do not meet Ukraine’s obligations to the World Trade Organization to comply with the requirements of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade in 1947. The above provisions are also not in line with the basic principles set out in the EU directives and will prevent the establishment of a free trade zone. And the third. Its date of entry into force of January 1, 2009, is set without taking into account the legal changes that affect the formation of the income part of the budget and therefore do not comply with article 27 of the Ukrainian Budget Code. In view of these arguments, it is proposed that the Supreme Council should be rejected by law. Thank you, distinguished national MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u40	Thank you, Marina Ivanovna. Have a seat, please. Royal Natalia Yuriovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u41	I would like to remind you that on 18 December 2008, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted by 370 votes the bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on minimizing the impact of the financial crisis on the development of the domestic industry. The purpose of the law was the main and main one that today concerns our entire national economy: to support the domestic industry in times of crisis. These measures were recognized by the Supreme Council as relevant and correct. I recall that today, the basic funds of the domestic industry are more than 60 per cent physical and more than 90 per cent moral. Today, it is impossible for our domestic industries to compete in a crisis, in principle, when the volume of implementation is falling, when less money is coming into the budgets, when unemployment is rising at an enormous rate. On 9 January 2009, the President of Ukraine returned the law to the Supreme Council for review, taking into account his comments. We have all heard the comments now, and I would like to comment on them. With regard to the President's first comment, the following point is made: severe diseases are treated with strong means, and the world is in a situation of economic crisis. And we must take radical action and serious action today. And if we do not urgently begin to support our domestic industry today, in just a few months, perhaps nothing will be supported. Therefore, we now need to take emergency economic measures. Changes in the tax system are introduced, not by the Cabinet of Ministers, but by the law, as envisaged by the Constitution. Nor does the Cabinet of Ministers have the responsibility to comply with this law within the scope of its constitutional powers. Today, we are all MPs and the Government and the President must be lobbyists of the domestic industry. I want to repeat: we must all become lobbyists of the domestic industry. As for the second observation, the President.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u42	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u43	The Committee's decision yesterday was taken unanimously, with one abstention. We propose that the President of Ukraine submit a proposal to the Supreme Council for consideration and propose to overcome the veto of the President. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u44	Thank you, sit down, please. Please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal by the President of Ukraine to reject the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws. [[on minimizing the impact of the financial crisis on the development of the domestic industry]] I'd like to make a statement. [[16:36:56]] For-30 The decision is not taken. I am voting on a proposal by the committee to overcome the veto of the President of Ukraine on the Act of Ukraine amending certain laws of Ukraine to minimize the impact of the financial crisis on the development of the domestic industry. I'd like to make a statement. [[16:37:35]] For 400. Decision taken. Veto overpowered. The law will be sent back to the President of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, in this section, “The review of Ukraine's laws with the President's remarks”, we still have one law pending: the Criminal Statute of the State Service for Special Liaison and Protection of Information of Ukraine – due to the absence of reporters from both who were to report it. Now they are both present in the hall, apologizing to the Ukrainian National Deputies for their delay. And Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk is proposing to return to this issue. Anyone who supports the return to this issue, please vote. Turn on the "Council" system. [[16:38:34]] For 412 We went back to discussing the matter. I invite Marina Ivanovna Stavniczuk to report on this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u45	Honourable Chairman, Honourable People's Deputies of Ukraine! The analysis of the law that came to the President's signature shows that it is different from the same law that was returned by the President on 13 January 2007 for re-examination by Parliament. In particular, the law received was dated 4 September 2008 at 373-6 and signed by the Head of the Supreme Council, Arsen Yatsenuk. The law, which was returned by the President to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for review, dated 16 March 2007, at number 759-5, and signed by Alexander Moroz, Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In view of this, the President points to such positions. According to the legal position of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine in its decision of 7 July 1998, the term “law” is used in part four of article 94 of the Constitution of Ukraine in the sense of a legally binding, structurally completed legal act adopted by the Supreme Council in accordance with its constitutional and legal powers, paragraph one of the first part of article 85, article 92 of the Constitution of Ukraine. [[by number 11PP]] And it doesn't mean the content of a piece of the law or the amendment to it. Thus, all decrees, including the adoption date, the law number and the signing of the head of the Supreme Council, are integral elements. By the way, the same position is maintained by the Supreme Council itself in article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on Regulatory Acts, which was adopted on the first reading on September 16, 2008 and which provides that the legal and regulatory act should be requisitioned accordingly: name, form, date of acceptance, number and signature of the authorized official. Similarly, practice has been established over the past 13 years since the adoption of the valid Constitution of Ukraine. So in line with article 894 of the Constitution, taking into account the Constitutional Court's ruling of July 7, 98, the President of Ukraine has spoken to the Ukrainian Act of September 4, 2008, under number 373-6 on the disciplinary statute of the State Service socially.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u46	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u47	The comments and suggestions you have, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u48	Thank you, Marina Ivanovna. Have a seat, please. Heads of the National Security and Defence Committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u49	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, your honor, we have just heard the argument and in order for the President to have the full right to sign this law and not violate the Constitutional Court's decision, we have once again, I think, confirmed more than 300 votes of the President's veto. The important thing is that there is a statute in the force structure, since today neither encouragement nor punishment can be given to the violator in this structure. The committee once again unanimously supported this decision and asked for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u50	Thank you, Anatoly Stepanovich. Please prepare for the vote. I am voting on a proposal by the President of Ukraine to reject the Ukrainian law on the disciplinary statute of the State Service for Special Liaison and Protection of Information. I'd like to make a statement. [[16:42:29]] For 20 The decision is not taken, the President's proposal is not supported. I'm voting on the proposal of a committee to defeat the veto of the President of Ukraine. I'd like to make a statement. [[16:42:56]] For 411 The veto is over, the law is passed and will be re-scheduled to the President of Ukraine for signature. Dear colleagues, in the course of the meetings, there were proposals from factions’ leaders and government officials regarding the following two issues. The first question is that when we consider the schedule of meetings for a week, we were looking at draft Law 0924 on a single social contribution, as well as on the next issue, the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the fight against smuggling and violations of customs rules. According to the first bill, it is proposed that it be considered today and included in the schedule of the evening plenary. According to Bill 3359, it is proposed to move the matter forward. I am addressing the Ukrainian National Deputies, are there any understanding and willingness to support these proposals? Is it? Then I put to the vote a motion for consideration at this evening's plenary session of draft law 0924. Please be sure. [[16:44:36]] For 351 Decision taken. So at this evening's plenary session, we're going to consider this bill. The next question is to move the draft law to amend some Ukrainian legislation on the fight against smuggling and the violation of customs rules. I'm voting on a motion to move this issue to the next plenary week. I'd like to make a statement. [[16:45:18]] For – 342 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there is a comparative table and materials in the session room relating to the consideration of the draft Law on Temporary Special Investigations Commissions, together with the conclusion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Legal Authority. People’s deputies, who were already in charge, requested time to read the committee’s proposals. Have you read it yet? Is there a willingness that we could begin our consideration of the matter? Is there a denial or not? There is a denial of the national MPs of Ukraine. Please, if there is a objection, then I suggest that we continue on schedule and after a while, when we read all the necessary suggestions. There is an urgent need for time to study. Please. Please sign the procedure. People's MP Landik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u51	Please pass the word to Efraem Alexander Sergeevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u52	Thank you, Vladimir Ivanovich. Dear Alexander Vladimirovic, distinguished colleagues, you know the fate of this bill, and you know why it is constantly promised by the President of Ukraine. We have worked very scrupulously on all the articles of this bill in the Committee, have tried to consider those proposals that were tabled by the people's deputies and have unanimously voted in favour of this bill. We have worked all night to reconcile all issues with the judiciary, Aleksandr Vladimirović, and we do not have much of a disagreement there either. Therefore, it is a huge request not to delay consideration of this issue, because there are representatives of one faction who will constantly oppose the consideration of this bill, to submit it, as agreed on at the Conciliation Council, and to consider it today in the sessional room.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u53	National Deputy Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u54	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Ladies and gentlemen, we have been developing this law since 1998. He's suffering a lot, he's suffering from one president, then another president, everyone's vetoing, everyone's saying what they need. Finally, I am grateful to the committee that he considered my number adjustments. True, with regard to Amendment 102, I will insist that they do, because this is exactly what it takes to balance in the Criminal Code, and it has to be taken into account, and it has to be in line with the Criminal Code. And here's the bill they gave us. We can go as amended, absolutely, by Alexander Volodymyrovich, and whoever made the amendments has the right to sound them, support them, or not. Whoever did not submit, no, of course not, as according to the Rules, but may object against those counted as prescribed by the Rules, so let us consider the Rules and not draw them because society expects us to adopt this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u55	National MP Taran, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u56	Please give it to Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u57	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues, see how many more bills remain, including anticrisis bills. Our faction insists on returning to the vote, which was in the morning and continuing to work in today's plenary regime of the Supreme Council until we consider all the bills proposed today. Alexander Volodymyrovich, the office is set to work. Please put this question to the vote so that we can consider all the bills. Please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u58	National MP Simonenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u59	Dear colleagues, this bill needs to be considered and adopted, because in a state-run environment where practically powerful capital has seized power, used in its own interests one or other state-owned structures, used in its own interests the State's budget, and the other today must urgently adopt the law that expands the scope of powers for the Supreme Council to study the processes and problems, as it turns out, today we are setting up a special commission to investigate crimes in the banking sphere, and there it is blocked and prevented from being considered, and thus the thieves and fraudsters remain outside the attention of the same national deputies in terms of leading to a logical conclusion of the investigation of those or other issues. So a faction of Communists insists that the draft law be urgently reviewed, that it be adopted by a majority, so that presidents such as Yushchenko will not be able to reject laws at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u60	Thank you. I want to remind you that the Supreme Council of Ukraine has made a special decision to consider this draft law in the second reading of this plenary week and has halved the time spent preparing for the second reading. That is why we today can consider this bill in accordance with the decision of the Supreme Council. With regard to Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko's proposal, unfortunately, I do not have the right to put her to the vote right now, because, in accordance with the Rules, this decision can only be taken in the morning plenary. So I'm announcing in the second reading, draft law, number 3250-d on the interim commission of inquiry, a special interim commission of inquiry and temporary special commissions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please give a report on this question to the national MP, Sass. Please come to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u61	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies! At the meeting of the Committee on 14 January 2009, the proposals submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputies to the draft Ukrainian Law on Temporary Commissions of Inquiry, a special interim commission of inquiry, temporary special commissions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted on the basis of the first reading of December 26, 2008 were considered. 102 proposals for this bill have been processed by the committee, most of which have been taken into account. Only proposals that conflict with the Constitution of Ukraine, the laws of Ukraine, and the concept adopted in the first reading of the bill remain unaccounted for. The committee did not take into account the proposal of Ukrainian national deputy Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, as he spoke in his report to the Final Orders of the Bill amending article 384 “Promisingly false testimony” and article 385 “The testimony of the testimony or refusal of an expert or translator to perform his duties under the Criminal Code of Ukraine”. With regard to the replacement of the words “Temporary Special Commission” with the words “Special Temporary Commission of Inquiry”, which are necessary for the implementation of the provisions of this law in the event of its adoption. Because they were not considered in the first reading in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The committee will not object if these proposals are taken into account by the Supreme Council for the second reading. The committee, as Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov had already said, decided unanimously yesterday at the meeting to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of the bill 3250-D on second reading and in general. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u62	Thank you. Please proceed to the draft law on comments. Before that, I would like you to answer the questions posed by the Chief Legal Authority, who made their comments on the four pages. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u63	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. The Law was being prepared for a second reading in close cooperation with the legal authorities. Practically every position defined in the bill agreed with legal experts. And today I have no reason to believe that there are extremely important observations in the legal system today. If there are specific comments, we will discuss the matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u64	I don't understand. Haven't you been familiar with the comments? These are very specific remarks to a whole series of articles.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u65	Alexander Volodymyrovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u66	So I understand you haven't studied this question, you're not ready to answer it now.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u67	The committee prepared the bill in agreement with each position, each article with the legal authorities. As far as your question is concerned, I must point out that the second reading procedure does not provide for the question. Please, if you're correct, let's go through the amendments. If there are specific suggestions, please let us address this issue. But once again, I emphasize that the bill was discussed with the legal authorities together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u68	Dear Sergey Volodymyrovich! I must upset you and tell you that the second reading provides for a mandatory conclusion under the Rules by the Supreme Legal Authority of Ukraine, without which the draft law is not considered at all in the second reading. And that's why the committee should answer the questions that are being asked. For reasons of whether they are right or wrong, this is not about relevance, but about the conformity of the Constitution of Ukraine and the interaction between legislative acts. This is important so that we do not work in such a way that we then have to correct mistakes. If the committee isn't ready to respond, we're going to consider the amendments. Please. Amendment number one of the Sasa People's Deputies is counted. Is there any objection to taking this amendment into account? Amendment number two is counted. There's a denial. Please, Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u69	Yuri Klukkowski. I understand that the main object of political interest in this law is the special commission of inquiry. Yet I am concerned about regulating the activities of so - called special commissions that are created to deal with matters of knowledge of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. There are a number of discriminatory norms that actually make it impossible to create such committees. And one of them, in particular, is envisioned by the second amendment. It is predicted that a temporary special commission can be created only if the matter does not belong to the knowledge of a separate committee. But, I'm sorry, there are no such issues in nature. And that actually means that a special commission can't be made. For example, the Special Commission for the Preparation of the Criminal Code worked long enough. Today there is a proposal for the creation of a special commission on the preparation of the Criminal Procedure Code. But it's all a matter of committee knowledge. As a result, such restrictions on the basis of the creation of special commissions are not clear to me. I'm offering a special part.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u70	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u71	I propose in the special committee section that this formation is “only if it does not belong to the committee’s competence” simply to exclude. The Supreme Council should be here on matters of due diligence. And once again, I want to emphasize that this formulation prohibits the creation of special commissions at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u72	Thank you. Honorable Yuri Bogdanovich, the establishment of special commissions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, temporary special commissions are regulated by the fifth chapter of the bill. The Supreme Council has established temporary special commissions to prepare and pre-examine issues, as well as to finalize bills and other acts of the Supreme Council. As far as you're concerned, the Supreme Council, when setting up committees, adopted a decree on the subjects of the committee's knowledge. And committees according to the subject of knowledge should consider their questions. So I think it's right and the committee has supported that special commissions can only be formed in cases where a particular question is not addressed to the subject of committee knowledge. Let me give you an example. There was a proposal to set up a special committee of members of the Health Committee, which was composed of all members of the Health Committee and the subject matter of knowledge, and wrote a paper on the fight against tuberculosis, drug abuse, and so forth. When, according to the Supreme Council’s decree, this is referred to as the subject of this committee’s knowledge. That's why the committee, I think, counted the proposal correctly. Thank you. I would like to point out that the proposals from the distinguished colleague Yuri Bogdanovich Klukkowski did not come to the committee. And when it comes to giving a word. I would like to ask, Alexander Volodymyrovich, to be guided by article 35 of the Rules, which provides only for the authors of the proposals, if they have to say so, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u73	I ask you to be guided by the Rules as a whole, and every Ukrainian national MP has the right to question any proposal. I therefore vote in favour of Amendment No. 2 of the Sasa People's Deputies. I'd like to make a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u74	The committee's asking. [[17:00:41]] For 351
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u75	Correction supported. Amendment No. 3 of the Sasa People's Deputies is counted. Is there any objection to taking this amendment into account? There's no objection. Amendment number four of Kravchuk’s national deputies is included in part three of article four. Is there a denial? There's a denial. National MP Bondik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u76	Dear colleagues, you know, with or without respect for our President, it is important to take into account that he has the right under the Constitution to resign voluntarily, because we know that the President's health is one that does not allow him to perform his duties. He's resting, he's not dealing with economics. So I would suggest that we include this amendment in this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u77	Is the objection relevant to this amendment? None. The following amendment is the number five amendment of the national MP Kravchuk. As listed in article four. Is there a denial? None. Amendment number six of the Sasa People's Deputies. Is there a denial of consideration? Please, Klukkowski Yuri Bogdanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u78	I would like to pay attention to the content of this amendment. We regulate by law that the issue of the report is included in the agenda without a vote. I don't know, apart from personnel issues, other issues that involve without a vote in the agenda. So it seems to me that, perhaps in the first order, it may not be possible not to include it, but without a vote. I think that's a strange offer. I'm offering to bet on support.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u79	Sergey Volodymyrovich, your point of view.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u80	Thank you. Well, I wanted to point out to Yuri Bogdanovich that my amendment was not about what Yuri Bogdanovich had just said. My amendment applied. In part six of article 3, add the words “unless otherwise is established by the Supreme Council’s ruling” to exclude. And this, according to Yuri Bogdanovich, was the subject of the first reading, and this position was supported in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u81	I vote in favour of Amendment 6 of the Sasa People's Deputies. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u82	The committee's asking for support. [[17:03:23]] For 365
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u83	Correction supported. Amendment No. 7 is the national MP of Sasa. Is there any objection to taking it into account? National MP Klukkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u84	I reiterate my proposal not to create artificial obstacles to the activities of the special commission provided for in the Constitution of Ukraine on any matter that belongs to the powers of the Supreme Council. We have already made an unconstitutional decision, which could be the basis for both the veto and the appeal to the Constitutional Court. But now let's think about it: we're setting a six-month deadline for a special commission. I'm asking both the reporter and the chairman to listen anyway. We set limits on the work of a special commission in six months. And if they haven't done their job in six months, the commission will dissolve. Please tell me, how many years have we been working on the Criminal Procedural Code? Do you see an opportunity in six years to make such a complicated bill? So I think it's such an ultimatum norm that six months and a dot is just not an intelligent, solid special commission. I'm just calling for a healthy one.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u85	Thank you, Yuri Bogdanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u86	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u87	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like you to hear that this is about the distribution of two principles of different committees: investigators and specials who are working on big projects. It may not be right to place the same requirements on them. Sergey Volodymyrovich, your point of view?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u88	Thank you. Dear Yuri Bogdanovich, my dear colleagues, I wanted to put it this way: the commission's maximum term, in accordance with the commission's law, for the commission of inquiry is not more than one year. In doing so, the first report should be made by the Supreme Council in its decision to set up a commission of inquiry, or no later than six months later. If the Supreme Council decides to continue the work of the commission during its consideration of the report, the commission will continue its work for a period of not more than one year. With regard to a special, temporary special commission concerning the President’s impeachment, this committee is set up within three months. This is provided for, the first report for this commission is submitted within a two-month period, after which, if the Supreme Council decides to charge the President, the verdict is sent for, the decision is sent for conclusion to the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Court. To the Constitutional Court, to determine whether there are signs of crime or treason in the President's actions, to confirm the constitutional procedure and to the Supreme Court. In the case of a special commission, it is created on an appropriate date, either on an appropriate date, or before considering certain issues, before the completion of the consideration of certain matters. So in this case, I'd like to support the President's position, because if we take some positions out of the context of this bill, we're not going to have anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u89	I vote in favour of amendment number seven of the Sasa People's Deputies. I'd like to make a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u90	Please be supportive. The committee's asking for support. [[17:07:13]] For 362
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u91	Decision taken. Amendment No. 8 of the Karmazin People's Deputy is dismissed. Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin denies it or not? Microphone, please, the People's Deputy of Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u92	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! After this text, many of my amendments were made. I'll take off more than half of them today. But those who improve the law, in my opinion, I'm going to insist anyway to bet. I'll just take the rest of the economy off. Since the economy of time. This amendment provides a basis for the establishment of a commission of inquiry. I add to the second paragraph that there are reports of massive violations of the rights, freedoms and legitimate interests of citizens, as well as their unification of the words “or corruption and other offences related to corruption and abuse of power by persons authorized to perform the functions of the State and other official officials who have caused significant harm to social interests”. I mean, I add these few sentences that refer to corruption and other crimes involving corruption and abuse of power by the highest authorities. So I'd like to ask you to support this amendment. I don't understand why it's rejected. Please support the room during the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u93	Sergey Volodymyrovich, please, your point of view.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u94	Thank you. With regard to the amendment, the committee, in its decision on rejection, was guided by the following: the second part of the second article in question states that the following is the reason for the commission of inquiry is the report of a mass violation of the rights and freedoms of citizens or the abuse of power, by officials, by officials, and by officials who have caused material harm to social interests. In our view, our position is much wider because it is not only about corruption but also about getting bribes, about getting bribes, about the malignment of their powers. I would also like to point out that the issue of combating corruption is regulated by the relevant Anti-Corruption Act. Article 1 defines what corruption is and what corruption is. Article 4 sets out a list of authorities that fight corruption. Well, there's no commission of inquiry. To our conviction, the definition of corruption already presupposes some blame. In this case, the algorithm of the commission should be the following: the commission, when preparing certain issues, if there are signs of corruption in the actions of certain persons, submits proposals to the Supreme Council for recourse to the Attorney General's Office, to other law enforcement authorities in order to take certain steps in accordance with the law. Including being held accountable for corruption and other activities, that is, in our view, our position is much larger and wider. Therefore, I ask the committee to support the rejection of the noted amendment of the People's Deputies of Carmazin. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u95	I'm voting on Amendment No. 8 of the People's Deputies of Carmazin. I'd like to make a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u96	The committee didn't support it. [[17:10:50]] For – 47 Correction not supported. Amendment No. 9 of the People's Deputy Kravchuk. Counted. Is there a denial of consideration? There's no objection. Amendment No. 10 of the Sasa People's Deputy. Counted. Is there a denial? Amendment No. 11 of the Sasa People's Deputy. Counted. Is there a denial? People's MP Klukkowski. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u97	Ladies and gentlemen, I think that for the Supreme Council of Ukraine, it is not an honor, and I'm going to say that there are already two decisions of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine that have been taken lightly. Look what it says. I understand what was written in the first reading, that was before those decisions, but the second reading takes place after these decisions, “the laws of Ukraine and the Rules”. I want to remind you, the content of the resolution part of the two decisions of the Constitutional Court, which are required to be implemented throughout Ukraine. The regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine must be approved by law and have the status of law. Thus, such a repetition is simply an unacceptable violation of the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine by the Supreme Council. I don't think that's acceptable. I request that this amendment be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u98	I'm putting to the vote Amendment No. 11 of the Sasa People's Deputies, please identify yourself. [[17:12:34]] For 343 Decision taken. Amendment No. 12 of the People’s Deputies of Carmazin, are you satisfied with the wording in which it is included? Amendment No. 13 of the Sasa People's Deputies, is there a denial of consideration? None. Amendment No. 14 of the Kravczuk People's Deputy, is there a denial of consideration? None. Amendment No. 15 of the Sasa People's Deputies, is there a denial of consideration? None. Amendment No. 16 of the national MP Kravczuk, is there a denial of consideration? None. Amendment No. 17 of the Sasa People's Deputy, is there a denial of consideration? None. Amendment No. 18 of the Sasa People's Deputy, is there a denial of consideration? None. Amendment No. 19 of the Karmazin People's Deputy, rejected. Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u99	Dear National Deputies, George Carmazin, Amendment 19 speaks of the fact that in the sittings of the commission of inquiry, this is Article 7, I remind you, such issues are being addressed, including, in my opinion, the decision to bring administrative responsibility for failing to meet the legal requirements of the commission of inquiry or to create obstacles to its work. Or giving it information that is known to be false, as well as the failure to comply with the time limits established by the legislation to provide information to the investigating commissions and the lack of appearance of a meeting for no good reason. The other two points are taken into account, but the point is that no one in particular decides whether or not to initiate this. So what I'm saying is that there's a warehouse, we've seen, we've made decisions, and then we're asked. I didn't understand why the committee didn't support this for legal clarity it would have to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u100	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u101	Sergei Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u102	Thank you. Dear Yuri Anatoliyovich, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this amendment under number 8 at your suggestion of withdrawal, you have asked the committee to remove it from consideration. But with regard to content, it is included in article 37 of the bill, which provides for and provides for criminal and administrative responsibility for obstructing the actions of an investigator or a special commission. So if you look at it, I think. It is a matter of considering matters at a meeting of the committee!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u103	Yes, there is no need for discussion. I'm putting to the vote amendment number 19 of People's Deputies Karmazin. Now, now. Take off the vote, please. Sergey Volodymyrovich, I ask then in the form that it be properly formulated so that it is not rejected where part is counted. Please tell me which part of this amendment is included.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u104	What part of that is counted? I'd like to say, let me read, paragraph 8 of the order of confidentiality of information with limited access, including classified and other protected information in the work of the commission of inquiry with such information. This is counted. And the next, the tenth point.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u105	Wait a minute! Stop! As far as this part is concerned, is there a denial?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u106	Vote!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u107	No objection, none taken into account. Then, please, where there's a deviation.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u108	And the committee requests that the amendment be rejected: the decision to bring administrative responsibility for failure to comply with the legal requirements of the commission of inquiry or to create an obstacle to its work, or to give it false information for what is known, and the failure to comply with the time limits established by the legislation to provide information to the commission of inquiry and not to appear at its meeting without valid reasons. The committee requests that the amendment be rejected because it is essentially included in other articles of the law. If we count it now, it's just going to change, so some accents and some structure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u109	National MP Klukkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u110	Thank you. Well, of course, the table is prepared by the following criticisms, and this indicates the level of willingness of the committee to report on the bill. I'm talking about paragraph 9 in the right column, which corresponds to paragraph 10 of the 19th Amendment of Carmazin. About removing items and documents that could be evidence. Well, first of all, it's a questionable right to be removed by the commission of inquiry. However, I would like to draw attention to the legal quality of this proposal by the committee. “Except for those who are living in housing or other persons owned.” I would like to remind you that according to the Civil Code, individuals and legal persons are individuals. So you can only delete what you found on the street, because everything else is in someone else's possession. So this is just the level of preparation of the bill. This is for the general level of familiarity with the text.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u111	Yuri Bogdanovich, for the record, if you'll excuse me, please contact the President of Ukraine. Because it's this proposal about the non-removal of housing or other property that was the subject of the President's veto in the last draft of the law. Your Honor! So go to the President, that was his offer. As far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u112	Turn off the microphone on the stand. I'm voting on the proposal of National Deputy Carmazin, who's been rejected by the profile committee. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:18:43]] For-99 There is no support for the proposal of the national deputy Karmazin. Amendment No. 20 of the People's Deputies of Carmazin. Is there a denial of consideration? None. Amendment 21 of the Karmazin People's Deputy. Overruled. Is there a denial? None. Sergei Volodymyrovich, if you're writing in the table "refused" and you say it's counted, it really shows the quality of your committee's work on this law. Amendment No. 22 of the Karmazin People’s Deputy is rejected. Are you insisting? No, it's not. Amendment No. 23 of the Sasa People's Deputy counts. Is there a denial of consideration? There's no objection. Amendment 24 of the Karmazin People’s Deputy is rejected. Is there a denial? There's no objection. Amendment No. 25 of the Karmazin People's Deputy counts. Is there a denial? None. Amendment 26 of the Sasa People's Deputy counts. Is there a denial? None. Amendment No. 27 of the Karmazin People's Deputy is partially taken into account. Is there a denial? None. Amendment No. 28 of the Sasa People's Deputy counts. Is there a denial? None. Amendment 29 of the Karmazin People’s Deputy is rejected. There's no objection. Amendment No. 30 of the Sasa People's Deputy counts. Is there a denial? None. Amendment No. 31 of the Sasa People's Deputy counts. Is there a denial? None. Amendment No. 32 of the Karmazin People’s Deputy is rejected. Is there a denial? [[B in m in s a l in]] Amendment No. 33 of the Karmazin People's Deputy is rejected. Don't insist. Amendment 34 of the Sasa People's Deputy counts. Is there a denial? None. Amendment 35 of the Karmazin People’s Deputy is rejected. Is there a denial? The Microphone of the People's Deputy Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u113	Yuri Carmazin. Dear friends, I'm asking you about an editorial on how to explain the valid paragraph 5 in the first part of article 12. “Get a witness or a written explanation from persons other than the President, the judges of the Constitutional Court and the judges of the courts of general jurisdiction” - continue to think, listen to the text: “If the latter are not witnesses or eyewitnesses of events which are the subject of a study of the commission on the circumstances that are being investigated except in cases established by law”. So I want us to make this legal. So I didn’t understand the reason for the rejection. Please tell me I'm addressing the committee head. And I have a question. In many where it is written “distorted”, it is actually counted by text. Is there any way that we can fix this or how? A stenographer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u114	With regard to the position that Yuri Anatoliyovich says cannot be invited if the latter is not a witness, the President of Ukraine, the judges of the Constitutional Court and the judges of general jurisdiction, if the latter are not witnesses or eyewitnesses of events that are the subject of the commission. The committee came out of a previous version of the law adopted by the Supreme Council and from the provisions of article 105 of the Constitution of Ukraine and 126 of the Constitution on the integrity of judges. [[on the integrity of the President of Ukraine]] I wanted to draw Yuri Anatoliyovich's attention to the Constitutional Court's decision to explain the issue. The effect on judges is prohibited in any way. This is the position of part two of Article 126 of the Constitution, where in the motivational part it is particularly noted that the influence of judges in any way is prohibited. We need to understand how to ensure the independence of judges in relation to their administration of justice, as well as the prohibition on judges of any kind, irrespective of the form of their manifestation by public authorities, institutions, organizations, local self-government bodies, their officials, natural, legal persons, and beyond. So, Yuri Anatolyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u115	I'm voting on the proposal for. You're filming. You should have done it sooner. National MP Sas, please, amendment 36, accounted for. Is there a denial? None. Amendment 37 of the people's Sass, counted. Is there a denial? Amendment 38 of the Karmazin People's Deputy, dismissed. Is there a denial? None. Amendment 39, People's Deputy Carmazin. I'm good. Amendment 40, People's Deputy Carmazin. Declined. He's taking it off. Amendment 41, People's Deputy Kravchuk. Counted. Is there a miscalculation? None. Amendment 42 of the Karmazin deputies included. Is there a denial? None. Amendment 43 of the Sasa People's Deputy counts. Is there a denial? None. Amendment 44 of the Kravchuk People's Deputy counts. Is there a denial? None. Amendment No. 45 of the Karmazin People's Deputy counts. Is there a denial? None. Amendment 46 of the Sasa People's Deputy counts. Is there a denial? None. Amendment No. 47 of the Karmazin People's Deputy is partially taken into account. How's it going, Yuri Anatolyovich? The 48th amendment of the Sasa People's Deputy is taken into account. Is there a denial? There's no objection. 49th National Deputy Sasa. Is there a miscalculation? None. The 50th Amendment of the People's Deputy of Carmazin has been taken into account. Is there a denial? None. The 51st amendment of the Sasa People's Deputy is taken into account. Is there a denial? None. The 52nd Amendment of People's Deputy Karmazin was rejected. Don't insist. The 53rd amendment of the Sasa People's Deputy is taken into account. Is there a denial? None. 54th Amendment of the Sasa People's Deputy. Is there a miscalculation? None. 55th Amendment of the Sasa People's Deputy. Any objections? None. The 56th Amendment of the People's Deputy of Carmazin is partially taken into account. How's it going? It's fine. 57th National Deputy Sass is accounted for. Is there a miscalculation? None. The 58th amendment of the Sasa People's Deputy is taken into account. Is there a denial? There's no objection. The 59th amendment of the Sasa People's Deputy is taken into account. Is there a denial? There's no objection. The 60th amendment of the Sasa People's Deputy is taken into account. Is there a denial? There's no objection. The 61st amendment of the Sasa People's Deputy has been taken into account. Is there a denial? There's no objection. The 62nd amendment of the Sasa People's Deputy is taken into account. Is there a denial? There's no objection. The 63rd amendment of the People's Deputy Carmazin has been rejected. Is there a denial? Don't insist. The 64th amendment of the Sasa People's Deputy is taken into account. Is there a denial? None. The 65th amendment of the Karmazin People's Deputy has been rejected. Is he insisting? Yuri Anatolyovich? Don't insist. 66th Amendment of the Sasa People's Deputy. Is there a denial of consideration? 67th Amendment of the Sasa People's Deputy. Is there a denial of consideration? The 68th amendment of the Sasa People's Deputy. Is there a denial of consideration? I won't. 69th Amendment of the Sasa People's Deputy. Is there a denial of consideration? None. Amendment No. 70 of the Sasa People's Deputy counts. Is there a denial? None. Amendment 71 of the Sasa People's Deputy counts. Is there a miscalculation? None. Amendment No. 72 of the Sasa People's Deputy. Is there a miscalculation? None. Amendment No. 73 of the Karmazin People's Deputy is dismissed. Is there a denial? People's deputy Karmazin's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u116	Honorable National MPs. Yuri Carmazin. I ask that you pay attention to the positions that I propose to add to this article. It's okay. Here only to be added: “Organization and order of activities of the special commission of inquiry shall be carried out in accordance with the provisions of chapter two of this law, taking into account the features provided for in this chapter.” [[it's written]] I would like to add: “To the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine and the Criminal Code of Ukraine”. Because that's what this is about. That's an investigation, it's got to be written down. I don't understand why those words came out. Obviously, I want the committee to be informed now and to support me on this issue, to add “Criminal and Criminal”. These are valid laws that are binding upon you in any kind of loving action.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u117	Sergei Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u118	I wanted to comment on this position. I wanted to draw Jury Anatoliyovich's attention to part four of article 1, which states: “Organization and order of the commission of inquiry, the special commission of inquiry, the special commission of inquiry, People's deputy Karmazin's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u119	Dear people's deputies, it's about. This is Yuri Carmazin. So it's about the special prosecutor and the special investigators and their candidates. In this norm, why do I propose to exclude part 4 of Article 25? It allows the committee, whose subject of knowledge on such matters, to block this candidature, as well as therefore, in view of the issues being investigated and they have a serious and political influence, to make the work of the commission of inquiry more difficult. So I proposed, let's rule out this article, part 4 of article 25, and then there's not going to be this item that there's going to be an appointment for a special prosecutor to be considered in advance at a committee meeting. That's it, it's such a simple logic. By the way, it wasn't in previous texts and the law that Kuchma was making, and the law that Yushchenko later made, they weren't in previous texts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u120	Sergei Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u121	Dear colleagues, well, Yuri Anatoliyevich proposed that the candidates of the special prosecutor and special investigators be considered at the meeting of the special, temporary commission of inquiry. However, this cannot be done only for one reason, which is that the temporary prosecutor and the temporary investigator are members of a temporary special commission. And that's why the commission can only be created by their participation. This is what article 111 of the Constitution provides. As far as the situation is concerned, this is about whether the Supreme Council determines a committee that examines the candidates submitted for office as a special prosecutor and a special investigator, whether they meet the requirements of article 25 of the law or not. So I think in this case the Supreme Council can determine which committee should deal with these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u122	I'm voting on Amendment 86. Yuri Anatolyevich is pleased now. Correction rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u123	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u124	Amendment No. 87 of Sasa's deputies are accounted for. Is there a denial? None. Amendment 88 of the Karmazin People’s Deputy is taken into account in an editorial way. Is he editing? It's fine. Amendment 89 of the Karmazin People's Deputy counts. Is there a denial? None. The 90th Amendment of the People's Deputy, Carmazin, has been denied. Are you insisting? Don't insist. 91st National Deputy Sassa has been accounted for. Is there a denial? There's no objection. 92nd Amendment People's Deputy Sasa accounted for. Is there a denial? There's no objection. 93rd Amendment People's Deputy Sasa accounted for. Is there a denial? There's no objection. The 94th amendment of the Sasa People's Deputy is taken into account. Is there a denial? None. The 95th amendment of the Karmazin People's Deputy has been rejected. Is he insisting? Please, the microphone of the People's Deputy Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u125	Dear National Deputies! Yuri Carmazin. I wanted to shed light on one problem that in society is something, well, until you know it. The point is that we have no official in the state to investigate the Attorney General of Ukraine. There is no such official. I want you to understand that. Therefore, I propose to introduce an additional chapter, a new chapter, “Special Commissions of the Supreme Council to investigate the circumstances of the crime created by the Attorney General of Ukraine or the head of the Ukrainian Security Service. In the history of the Ukrainian Parliament, there has already been a case where seals have just been stamped and all of us have been listened to and the investigators have been abused. But then we couldn't get out of this situation. We didn't have that right. Sooner or later in a democratic society, this has to be foreseen. No matter what the Attorney General's name is, no matter what the President's last name is. And what is now happening in the Security Service, when two years of government is being usurped there, contrary to the law and the Constitution, it must also be persecuted somehow. So I would like to hear the committee's opinion and what we are.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u126	Yes, please, Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u127	Thank you. Dear Yuri Anatoliyovich, well, with regard to your amendment to the text of the law, there's a new chapter on special commissions of the Supreme Council. We already have a chapter, so here, I understand, an editorial error about that. Next, National Deputy Carmazin proposes to set up commissions for the head of the National Bank, the head of the Security Service, and the Attorney General. The committee concluded that there were no warnings today, if the bill was supported, to create an inquiry commission to investigate the facts that, if the above-mentioned persons had signs of crime, the commission of inquiry could solve the issue without problems. In this case, it is suggested that a special commission of inquiry be established only in accordance with article 111 of the Constitution when it comes to the impeachment of the President, a temporary special commission of inquiry. The committee suggests that the proposal be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u128	I'm voting on amendment 95 of the Karmazin People's Deputies. I'd like to make a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u129	The committee is not asking for support. [[17:37:42]] For – 205 Correction not supported. The ninety - sixth amendment of the national MP, Sasa, is counted. Is there a denial? None. Amendment No.97 of the People's Deputy of Carmazin. Is there a denial? None. Amendment No.98 of the Sasa People's Deputy. Counted. Is there a denial? None. Ninety - nine amendments to the People’s Deputies of Carmazin Counted. Is there a denial? None. A hundred amendments to the Sasa People's Deputy. Counted. Is there a denial? None. One hundredth of the first amendment of the Sasa People's Deputy. Counted. Is there a denial? None. One-hundred-and-second amendment of the People's Deputy Carmazin. Declined. The Microphone to the People's Deputy Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u130	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the final amendment. I would like to take a very serious look at the letter from the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I quote him. Item 11. “It is entirely correct to propose No. 102 to the draft tabled by the People’s Deputies of U.Karmazin on the completion of the final provisions of the bill, paragraph 4, which amends articles 384-386 of the Criminal Code. This proposal is not considered by the committee, as it seems that it was not considered. However, these changes are designed to harmonize the Criminal Code with the provisions of the bill under consideration. So I'd like to support this, because the legal department supports it, and the practice of life supports it, and I'm telling you, as a person who has spent three years putting his life in order to adopt a new criminal code that needs to be reconciled, it needs to be done, it's going to improve the bill, and it's going to give us mechanisms to keep this state in order to avoid this chaos. I'm asking you to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u131	Dear colleagues, if you've noticed, in the opening statement, I said that the committee would not object if this amendment was supported by the Supreme Council. Thank you for your attention. Please support the amendment of National Deputy Carmazin for Number 102.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u132	I'm voting on Amendment 102 of People's Deputies Karmazin, please identify yourself. [[17:40:21]] For 394 Correction supported. So we've considered all of the amendments that we've come up with to the second reading of this important draft law. I'm voting on the second reading of draft Law No. 3250-D, please identify yourself. [[17:41:01]] For 406 Decision taken. Sergey Volodymyrovich, now I have a question to ask you whether there is a need for a third reading, taking into account the proposal of the Chief Legal Authority, please, Sergey Volodymyrovich Sas.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u133	Thank you. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, I'm here, by the way, to see the observation of the Scientific and Expert Legal Department. Well, they're certain they're of such a theoretical nature. As for 11 notes, we took it into account. As for some questions. Dear colleagues, the committee has made a decision, I have to give him a wire, adopt a bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u134	Please sit down.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u135	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u136	I'm voting on the adoption of Bill 3250-d on temporary commission investigators for a special interim commission of inquiry and temporary special commissions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'd like to make up my mind. [[17:42:18]] For 408 Decision taken. The law's been passed. [[Applause]] By factions, please, the Party of the Regions - 171, the Block of July Timoshenko - 155, Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense - 36, the Communists - 27, the Block of Lithuania - 19. Dear colleagues, this chapter of second reading, as approved by the decision of the Supreme Council, we have the next draft of Law 0918 on concessions for the construction and operation of roadways. Kozak Volodymyr Vasilovich will report, please. Dear colleagues, the reduced procedure in the second reading does not exist.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u137	Dear Alexander Vladimirovich! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Since the Road Concessions Act was distributed only today and at the request of many deputies, the Committee is not ready to report the Act today and requests that it be transposed in time by the Rules so that members can study the law in full.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u138	Vladimir Vasilovich, given to the National Deputies a table with all necessary visas and with the conclusions of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. Is there a misunderstanding? Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich, please, from the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u139	Dear colleagues, Reverend Alexander Volodymyrovich. I think the question here is as clear as God's day. The committee prepared and gave us a table. The committee may have a separate opinion, even in the head of the committee, and he may have the right to express it. But we do have an original or a secondary material to work with. So we have absolutely no reason not to. What will be the decision is another matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u140	Dear colleagues, the committee's decision authorizes the national deputy Kozak to present himself. If you are not ready to represent now, which member of the committee is ready to represent? Please. People's deputy Crook. I want to say that this was the decision of the Conciliation Board that this bill is being considered today and we can only withdraw it by decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u141	Dear Alexander Vladimirović, distinguished colleagues! The Committee's decision on this law was positive. They voted unanimously. And, I think, what is the state of the road today, there are too many comments. I think there might be some sort of principled position. But in principle, we have worked very hard on this law in the committee and, I think, we should put it to a vote and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u142	Thank you. No, I understand enthusiasm, but we will consider in accordance with the procedure established by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I, the honourable national deputies, am warning that the evening plenary session will continue for 15 minutes. Amendment No. 1 of the national MP Kozak has been rejected. Are you insisting? Please, the microphone of the Cossack MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u143	I insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u144	Put it to a vote? I'm voting on amendment number one. Please be sure. [[17:46:51]] For-164 Correction not supported. Amendment No. 2 of the Cabinet of Ministers is included. Is there a denial? None. Amendment No. 3 of the Cabinet of Ministers is included. Is there a denial? None. Amendment No. 4 of the national MP Kozak has been rejected. Are you insisting? Please, Volodymyr Vasilovich Kozak's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u145	Yes, I insist on this amendment, too, because it does not take into account the policy of this law, because in this law this amendment, if we do not take it down, the question is that it is possible not to build railways, but to transfer it to concession purely for exploitation. I therefore insist on this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u146	Committee position on deviation, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u147	This is not about the railway, but about the roads. But that's not the point. The point is that we actually voted in favour of this amendment in Committee 50 by 50. Therefore, I think today, as the hall will say, it will be, but it can be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u148	I'm putting to the vote amendment number four of the national MP Kozak. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:48:20]] For-143 No correction supported. Amendment No. 5 of the Cabinet of Ministers is included. Is there a denial? There's no objection. Amendment No. 6 of the Demishkan People's Demishcan People's Demishcan is counted. Is there a denial? None.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u149	Alexander Vladimirovich, perhaps only those who are unaccounted for because why go through all the amendments?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u150	Please don't tell me how to do my job properly. I know how to do it. Amendment No. 7 of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Is there a denial of consideration? None. Amendment No. 8 of the people's representative of Kozaka is counted. Is there a denial? There's no objection. Amendment No. 9 of the people's representative of Kozaka is counted. Is there a denial? None. Amendment No. 10 of Demishcan's People's Demishcan is dismissed. Is the Demiscan National Deputy insisting? Don't insist. Amendment No. 11 of the Demishcan People's Demishcan People's Demishcan has been rejected. Don't insist. Amendment to Cabinet number 12 is included. Is there a denial? None. Amendment No. 13 of the Demishcan People's Demishcan People's Demishcan is counted. Is there a denial? None. Amendment No. 14 of the Demishcan People's Demishcan People's Demishcan has been rejected. Don't insist. The 15th amendment of the Cabinet of Ministers is included. Is there a denial? None. Amendment No. 16 of the people's deputies, Kozak, has been rejected. Is there a denial? It's okay. Amendment No. 17 of the national MP Kozak has been rejected. Are you insisting? I'm good. Amendment No. 18 of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is partially taken into account. Is there an insistence on the Cabinet of Ministers? None. Amendment No. 19 of the people's representative of Kozaka is counted. Is there a denial? None. Amendment No. 20 of the people's representative of Kozaka is counted. Is there a denial? None. The 21st amendment of the Demishkan People's Demishcan People's Demishcan has been rejected. Don't insist. The 22nd Amendment of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is included. Is there a denial? There's no objection. The 23rd amendment of the people's representative of Kozaka has been counted. Is there a denial? None. The 24th Amendment of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is included. Is there a denial? None. The 25th Amendment of the Cabinet of Ministers is included. Is there a denial? There's no objection. The 26th amendment of the Cossack People's Deputy was rejected. It's okay. The 27th amendment of the people's representative of Kozak has been counted. Is there a denial? There's no objection. The 28th Amendment of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is taken into account. Is there a denial? There's no objection. So we've looked at all the amendments. I am voting on the adoption of a second reading of the Ukrainian Law on Construction and Exploitation of Roads, registration number 0918. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:51:51:51]] For 251 Decision taken. Is there a need to prepare for the second reading of the project?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u151	None. Request of the Committee. We voted on the committee to adopt it as a law as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u152	I am voting on the adoption of the entire draft Law 0918 on concessions for the construction and operation of roads. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:52:35.]] For 252 Decision adopted, law approved. Another draft of the Law, adopted in accordance with the decision of the session hall, registration number 0924 on the congregation system and the calculation of the only social contribution to the general government social insurance, is announced in this chapter. Reported by the National MP of Ukraine Papiew.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u153	Honourable Ukrainian National Deputies, you have before you a bill on the system of assembly and the calculation of the only social contribution to the general government social insurance. Let me remind you of the history of this bill. This is a bill prepared by not one government since 2004, and the government of Timoshenko and the government of Yanukovich and the government of Yehanurov have prepared the bill. Today, in all the pre-election programs of all the political powers that have gone to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the adoption of this bill on the only social contribution is defined as a priority task. This bill was drafted by a working group, it's not just a bill that worked either by the Cabinet of Ministers or by the Ukrainian National Deputies. The working group included representatives of all interested ministries and departments, representatives of the National Bank, the State Treasury of Ukraine, representatives of social dialogue parties, all - Ukrainian organizations of professional associations and all - Ukrainian employers’ organizations. To the bill from the task force. We agreed as follows: the working group approved this bill as a whole, and all the proposals that are being considered for the second reading today, we agreed that they are being formed by the Ukrainian National Deputies, the representatives of all the factions of the Supreme Council who participated in the work of the working group in order to prepare this bill for the second reading. Therefore, all the proposals that have been taken into account have been made by the national deputies of Papiev, the national deputy of Vlasenko, the national deputy of Vizevski, the national deputy of Baranova, the national deputy of Maruschenko, the national deputy of School, and the national deputy of Days. Ukraine’s distinguished national deputies, 174 of those proposals, accounted for 159, did not take into account any of the proposals made by Ukraine’s national deputies, Cibenko, and Stoyan’s national deputy. These proposals, they're taken into account in part, but given that they were filed before the working group started, this bill came out as a whole. I am grateful to the National Deputy of Cibenko, because this is one of the authors of the Ukrainian Law “On the National Compulsory State Pension Insurance” and the National Deputy of Stoyan. When we talked to them, we took into account all the right suggestions that are before this bill. Therefore, the decision of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Social Policy and Work is proposed to agree with the table and to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the bill on second reading and in general. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u154	Thank you. Here, according to the reporter, most of the amendments made by the stable copyright team are included. I will, with your permission, call a number for the amendment, and if there is a denial of consideration, I ask you to raise your hand and give a signal. Amendment number one? Number two? Number three? Number four? Number five? Number six? Number seven? Number eight? Nine? Ten? Eleventh Amendment? Twelve? Thirteen? Fourteen? The 15th? Sixteen? Seventeen? Eighteen? Dear colleagues, please tell me after listing these amendments, including amendment 55.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u155	Seventy-four.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u156	No, I've looked where it's all accounted for, 55, is there even one objection?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u157	None.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u158	There are no objections to the first 55 amendments that are included. Is there no objection?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u159	None.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u160	None. Let's move on. First rejected amendment number 56. Is there any insistence on taking this amendment into account?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u161	No, we talked to the people.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u162	The Stoyan National MP does not insist. Fifty-seventh amendment, national deputy Stoyan insists? Don't insist. Fifty - eight revisions are included. No objections?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u163	I won't.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u164	Fifty - nine of Stoyan’s national deputies were rejected. Is he insisting?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u165	Don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u166	Don't insist. Sixty counts. Is there a denial?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u167	None
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u168	61st Amendment of People's Deputy Stoyan rejected. Do you agree? It's okay. 62nd, groups of national deputies are accounted for. Is there a denial? None. Rejected Amendment 64, National Deputy Stoyan agrees? Don't insist. It's a 65th amendment, no objection? None. The 66th amendment was rejected, National Deputy Cibenko. National MP Cibenko insists?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u169	No, it's not. Don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u170	Don't insist. The following changes are included. Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, where?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u171	Counted. They're included in the 174th Amendment. The point is that we worked with the Ukrainian National Deputies, and they don't insist, and those that are written down are counted, but in the second part of the bill, that is, there is no insistence on the national MPs on those amendments that are not included. And all the others are counted. I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u172	This is not the case when it is written “refused, ” but actually counted. So I want to say that the amendments that the committee recommends to take into account are over. 117th, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u173	174th.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u174	The 174th Amendment. Is there any objection to taking into account the amendments made by the People's Deputies Group to 174?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u175	I won't.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u176	There is no such objection. Honorary colleagues have thus considered the amendments made by the Ukrainian National Deputies. There is no objection to the accounting recommended by the profile committee. I am voting on the second reading of the draft Act No.0924 on the system of assembly and the calculation of the only social contribution to the general government social insurance. I'd like to make a statement. [[18:01:03]] For – 412 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, it takes time to get there. So I want to ask you now. In line with the proposals of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Legal Authority, which committee considered if it considered whether there was a need for a third reading to harmonize certain standards, to bring them into line with other laws? There aren't any? I put to the vote the whole draft Act No.0924 on the system of assembly and the calculation of the only social contribution to the general government social insurance. I'd like to make a statement. [[18:02:00]] For – 409 Decision taken. The law was passed in general. Dear colleagues. In the morning plenary session, we discussed some of the issues raised for the agenda session. So in this chapter, we have two questions that we haven't considered in the first half. I'm now announcing a project that we've decided at the morning plenary meeting to review the reduced procedure. Therefore, I am announcing a draft Act amending some of Ukraine's pension insurance laws, No. 3556. Excuse me, one second. This is a proposal for inclusion in the agenda. I'm voting on the inclusion in the agenda of Act No. 3556, please be determined. [[6:03:25]] For 355 The bill is included in the agenda. I am announcing draft Act No. 3556 amending some of Ukraine's pension insurance laws. Report to the National Deputy of Ukraine Bondarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u177	Dear colleagues, the bill proposes to amend several of the laws of Ukraine relating to pension insurance. This is about the fact that some financial and economic developments have taken place in the country, particularly the crisis and today the main issue that this bill has put forward for the purpose of balancing the pension budget and the pension system in general. The point is that this law introduces some changes that significantly improve the financing of individual population categories through the pension system, such as the seasonal workers, who under this law are able to choose a pension scheme, including the possibility of working seasonally for several months on a list approved by the Cabinet of Ministers to include a full year of retirement in this regard, so that these, the people of this category, have the opportunity to pay their contribution and to add an entire pension year to themselves. The other one. Today, we have a strange situation where women who go on specific vacations, having a certain working period prior to a specific vacation, after which they cannot be identified and taken part of their working hours before a vacation, after a vacation in connection with the care of the child, unite them into one another. This law provides for the possibility that a woman of her choice can determine and take the most productive part of her work on vacation, after a vacation, and thereby improve her pension. It is also proposed that a fixed amount of insurance premiums be set for a general government pension scheme for such a category of citizens who are subject to entrepreneurial activities and who have chosen a special form of taxation. [[natural persons]] I mean, a fixed tax, the only tax. This also allows them to identify themselves from.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u178	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u179	With the goal of getting a full pension. There are other positions that allow for the preservation of financial pensions for categories of individual categories, such as military pensioners and others. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u180	Thank you. Have a seat, please. From the committee of Mikola Georgievich Kulczynski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u181	Honorary colleagues, the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons at its meeting on December 25, 2008, reviewed the draft Law on Amendments to Some of Ukraine’s Pension Insurance Laws by National MP Bondarenko. The bill proposes to amend a number of laws that regulate pension insurance for the purpose of maintaining stability and financing the pension scheme. It is envisaged to improve the order in which pensions are recalculated for working pensioners, taking into account the salary received after the pension is granted. Set a congregation tax on compulsory pension insurance on a general basis of 33.2 from the tax facility for payers of fixed agricultural taxes. Set a fixed amount of insurance premiums for a general government pension scheme for natural persons, business entities that have chosen a special form of taxation, a fixed tax or a single minimum amount of premium for each person, taking into account the part of the fixed or sole tax that is listed in the Pension Fund. Apply in 2009 for the appointment of pensions in accordance with the Laws of Ukraine on general government pension insurance, on pension insurance for persons released from military service and some others, on scientific and scientific technical activity the average wage rate, which was calculated in 2008. Article 42 of the Ukrainian National Pension Insurance Act provides appropriate clarification in this regard. Establish a separate order for the recalculation of pensions in the event of an increase in the subsistence minimum for those who have lost their employment during the retirement period. It is legislative to regulate the one - year value of an insurance guard of 1 and 35 percent. The bill provides an opportunity to preserve the real level of social standards achieved in 2008. With the adoption of the bill, an additional financial resource of 6 billion dollars will allow, along with other measures, to prevent debt.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u182	Finish up, please, Mikolo Georgievich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u183	The committee is supported by a set of government measures to rationalize the use of the State budget and the pension fund's budget in order to preserve the sustainability of the financing of the pension scheme. The main scientific and expert office recommends that the bill be adopted as a basis. In view of the above-mentioned committee, the Supreme Council of Ukraine recommends a bill amending some of the Ukrainian pension laws, number 3556, to be adopted as a whole. The conclusion of the Scientific and Experimental Authority is added. I'd like to say that I have some comments to this bill and I'd like to add them to a second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u184	Please sit down. Please sign up for the discussion. National MP Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u185	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. We invite our colleagues to support the bill. This is an extremely relevant bill today that will allow us to stabilize and ensure the uninterrupted functioning of the Ukrainian Pension Fund, which will allow our people to pay their pensions and guarantee that our people will pay them their pensions tomorrow. In a financial crisis, the stability of the Pension Fund’s work is extremely important. Therefore, we propose to vote on this bill as a whole, as proposed by the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u186	People's MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u187	Dear colleagues, Kseniya Lapina, “For Ukraine”, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. I want to pay attention, we have just approved the Single Social Contribution Act with you. This law also partially affects the payment of pension benefits. It can be adopted on the basis of a second reading and brought into line with the newly approved Single Social Contribution Act. Otherwise, I'm sorry, but we're going to break the fever again, and then we're going to count on it for the kind of action that it was today. Laws cannot be adopted blindly. I would like to point out that it also modifies the payment of taxes by fixed agricultural taxes. You and I are all worried about the village, and how it needs to be protected, the pressure on the village is increasing. So I'm asking you to support it as a basis, but for the second reading, you need to rework it properly.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u188	Vaszczuk Katerina Timofievna National MP Tereshuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u189	Sergei Tereshuk, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear colleagues, I support the Liapinian MP, we can only support this bill because there are major problems in the Pension Fund today, just because of that. But at the same time, we understand how much pressure there is on the countryside. The village can't take that kind of pressure. So, dear fellows, I am addressing you. We will vote in favour of this bill in the second reading, but if we vote in favour of the agrarian sector bill, please support us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u190	Herman Hanna Mikolayevna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u191	A party of regions will, of course, support this bill on the basis. But we have to understand that the government of Tymoshenko has led the country into what laws we would not have adopted here, and unfortunately people will not be able to get full pensions. The pension fund is empty, the economy is buried, the recalculation of the Pension Fund is not the fault of the government of Yulia Timoshenko. Regrettably, even by supporting this bill, Parliament will not make this matter any better.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m1.u192	Thank you. The discussion is over. I am voting on the adoption in the first reading of draft Act No. 3556 amending some of Ukraine's pension insurance laws. I'd like to make a statement. [[18:14:03]] For 294 Decision taken. Because during the presentations, the Ukrainian national MPs made proposals on preparation for the second reading, the committee's proposal, unfortunately, I can't make, unfortunately, I can't put it. At this evening plenary session I declare closed Tomorrow at 10 a.m. will be the next plenary meeting. Good luck.
