ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Please prepare for registration, fellows of honor! Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:00:07]] They registered in the 405 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine declares open. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now moving on to issues that concern: firstly, the 2008 State Budget Implementation Survey, the 2008 Budget Implementation Report, as required by the Law and the Budget Code. Next is information from the Cabinet of Ministers on the implementation of the State Budget of Ukraine in the first half of 2009. After we have considered these two issues, the next question is the National Bank Board's information on the basic principles of monetary policy and after the introduction of the draft State Budget Act of Ukraine for 2010. And we're here to advise you, Your Honor, perhaps you'd like to make that offer. How would we have heard at the same time the Report on the implementation of the 2008 State Budget and at the same time the Information of the Cabinet of Ministers on the implementation of the 2009 State Budget, then the Co-Report of the Head of the Court of Auditors and discussed these two issues, because they are essentially related to each other, but they have made decisions, as required by the Budget Code, separately. What do you think? And then we would have the opportunity today to consider at least the 2008 Budget Implementation Report and the 2009 Budget Implementation Office. Tomorrow we would start to consider the issue of budget submission. Please, Alexander Paklusenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m1.u2	Alexander Pecklusenko, faction of the regions. Vladimir Mihajlovich, I think it is obvious for everyone to answer the question: What is the task of us to consider quickly, then we must propose and adopt this proposed form. When considered qualitatively, these are two completely different issues. Yes, they flow into each other. But on the first issue of 2008, there are regulations, they need to be discussed, and we need to be heard. We therefore categorically object to mixing these two issues into a pile. I request that 2008 be considered separately and 2009 as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m1.u3	Dear colleagues, since this proposal I have said is not supported, let's go according to the Rules. Article 162, which requires consideration of the full report. It's a full-time procedure. Then we work in this way. It is suggested that, fellow Members, this is the rule of procedure: a report by the Acting Minister of Finance of Ukraine - within 15 minutes, answers to questions - within 10 minutes, a report by the Head of the Committee on Budget Affairs - within 10 minutes, a report by the Head of the Court of Auditors - within 10 minutes, statements by MPs, committees, national deputies - 45 minutes, in total - an hour of 30 minutes. Is there no objection? Let's move on to the question. Merkovsky Anatoly Ivanovich is invited to the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m1.u4	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! In accordance with the requirements of article 62 of the Ukrainian Budget Code, the government submits a report on the implementation of the 2008 State Budget. The state budget for 2008 was based on macroeconomic projections, which predicted a real GDP increase of 6.8 per cent at the nominal level of 959.2 billion dollars. However, due to the financial and economic downturn in production and external trade in the fourth quarter of 2008, real GDP increased by only 2.1 per cent in a year, and the nominal GDP figure was lower than the forecast of 9.3 billion dollars and cost 949.9 billion dollars. GDP growth in 2008 was seen in those economic activities that have a lower share of the value added tax structure, particularly in agriculture and other economic activities. The deterioration of the external economic situation and the rapid increase in the exchange rate in the fourth quarter of 2008 led to a significant decline in exports and imports compared to the third quarter of 2008: exports by 36.5 per cent, imports by 29.9 per cent. The economic downturn that took place in the fourth quarter of 2008 led to an increase in business losses in 2008, particularly compared to 2007 – by 3.9 times. Despite the negative impact of the financial and economic crisis, the government of Ukraine managed to mobilise 16.3 billion dollars into the State budget in 2008 more than was stipulated by the law that was approved in December 2007. The 2008 government budget's cash expenditures amounted to 241.5 billion dollars and the deficit was 12.5 billion dollars, or 1.3 percent of GDP in the 25 billion dollars plan, or 2.6 percent of GDP. The General Fund of the State Budget's income target, taking into account the changes required, was estimated at 2.8 percent last year. There was more than a 5.1 billion dollars plan. The General Fund of the State Budget reached 185.9 billion dollars, or almost 50 percent against last year, or 59.8 billion more. In 2008, Speczfond received 45.9 billion dollars, almost equivalent to the income level approved in December 2007. The revenue from administrators, such as the State Tax Administration, amounted to 78.7 billion dollars, or 102.5 percent of the plan. The State Customs Service provided virtually 100% performance, with a small underestimation of 0.7 percent. The proceeds amounted to 88.4 billion dollars. However, it should be noted that in the past year the revenue received by the State Customs Administration increased by 1.8 times compared to 2007. The total VAT to the State budget was 92.1 billion dollars, or 32.7 and 55.1 percent more than in 2007. In 2008, the value added tax on goods produced in Ukraine to the General Fund was 45 billion dollars, or 8.5 billion dollars, and 23.2 percent more than in 2007. The arrival of VAT from imported goods has also increased by 1.9 times since 2007. However, the General Fund’s 2008 planned tasks, both from the VAT on goods produced in Ukraine and from VAT imported, were not significant, but they were flawed. 95.9 and 98.8 percent respectively, as explained by the worsening economic situation at the end of last year, including the decline in imports. In 2008, the value added tax amounted to 34.4 billion dollars, or 1.8 times, and 15.5 billion more than in 2007. According to some taxes, there was a lack of performance from income sources and, in particular, I already called VAT, mainly because in 2004, imports of goods as well as exports of goods decreased sharply. In general, if it didn't happen, we didn't have a significant reduction in exports and imports in the context of a financial and economic crisis, we were expecting an additional arrival last year in the fourth quarter plus 8 billion dollars. That is, overcoming could make 13 billion dollars against the approved plan. One of the drawbacks of last year was that measures had been taken to block privatization processes and, in particular, only 462.6 million dollars had come from the sale of land for non-salary purposes, where the privatization facilities were located. And last year we had to adjust during the budget because of the Supreme Council's decision to reduce revenues from the privatization of state property. As far as expenditure is concerned, in 2008 they were carried out in cash in the amount of 241.5 billion dollars. Although some expenditures have not been made for objective reasons, the expenditure level is 95.4 percent. The government’s cash expenditures amounted to 67.2 billion dollars more than 38.6 percent against 2007. In the structure of government budget expenditure by economic classification, major types of expenditure of the current nature should be allocated to a significant increase in expenditure use compared to the previous year for current population transfers, an increase of 78.9 per cent or a rise of 51 billion dollars. Food expenses increased 1.5 times as high as 2007. Expenditure on research and development, which is science and education, has grown by 37.8 percent compared to the past year. The cost of the work of budget officials increased by 33.4 percent or 32.9 billion dollars. According to the General Fund of the State Budget, expenditure allocations of 194.4 billion dollars, corresponding to 97.3 percent of the reporting period, were opened in 2008. In terms of cash expenditures, total funds of 193.3 billion were used. In doing so, cash social expenditure from the general government budget fund has been made at a rate of one hundred percent, including the recalculation of a percentage of local budget allocations. As a result, 100% of social financing last year was paid in full in 2008 for pensions, wages, social assistance, scholarships. Thus, on January 1, 2009, there is no debt in the budget area. With regard to the dynamics of social expenditure changes in 2008, it should be said that in 2008 the living minimum and minimum wage increased over the year, and social assistance to the population increased accordingly, the maintenance of military personnel and pension payments. The average monthly minimum wage in 2008 was 532.5 bracelets, and its growth against 2007 was 23.8 percent. In addition, it was a remarkable opportunity last year to speed up the introduction of a single tariff grid from September 2008 instead of November 1, as previously planned. This led to an average increase of nearly 10 percent in the salary of budget workers in September and October compared to the previously anticipated conditions. At the same time, in 2008 decisive steps were taken to return citizens to their lost money savings. According to the 2008 figures, cash expenditures for the targets amounted to 6.1 billion dollars, while in 2007 they amounted to only 506 million. By the end of 2008, the minimum pension payment was 544 bracelets, more than 30 percent above the same rate at the end of 2007. By the end of 2008, the average pension was about 900 dollars, 1.5 times higher than that in December 2007. With a view to improving the demographic situation in Ukraine, last year social guarantees were increased in relation to the birth of a child, and these expenses were fully funded. In 2008, expenditure on military and military money was also increased by an average of 25 percent compared to 2007. This led to an average increase in salaries: senior officers up to 3,350 dollars, younger officers up to 2,430 dollars, and contracted military personnel up to 1,350 dollars. The government budget's capital expenditure last year was funded at the level of 2007, or 25.6 billion dollars. In 2008, there was a trend towards a reduction in government debt service costs to 1.6 per cent, compared to 1.9 per cent in 2007, since there was a corresponding economic increase and, of course, there was no need for significant borrowing. Overall, health spending increased by 16.5 per cent in 2008 compared to last year, expenditure on spiritual and physical development increased by 46.8 per cent, and education increased by 42.3 per cent in 2008 compared to 2007. So on social security, I'd like to stop at this number, the cost has increased, the actual cost is 1.7 times. In this way, we have ensured full compliance with the basic principles of budgetary policy in 2008, particularly with regard to the social component of the budget. In 2008, too, much attention was paid to the financing of economic expenditure, which was increased by 1.3 times over the past year, or 8.9 billion dollars. The biggest increase was spent on a fuel-energy complex, including the oil-gas sector, on construction, on agriculture. Compared to 2007, the volume of government budget transfers to local budgets increased by 14.2 billion dollars or 31.5 percent. With regard to the 2008 budget deficit, I would like to emphasize once again that the actual deficit amounted to 12.5 billion dollars or 1.3 percent to GDP in the annual plan of 28.8 billion dollars, almost 3 percent. So this is explained by the fact that last year there was a way of overcoming revenue from the general fund, I've already called this figure 5.1 billion dollars, and a certain economy of the funds involved, on the one hand, with a reduction in debt service costs, is 1.1 billion dollars, and a rational and efficient use of the funds in the right direction. Cash balances in treasury accounts, including currency, remained at 13.2 billion by the end of 2008. This made it possible to fully start funding expenditure in 2009 and to ensure fiscal stability. The government debt of January 1, 2009,9 was $130.7 billion or $17 billion. With regard to government debt to GDP at the end of 2008, 13.8 percent was government debt and guaranteed debt to GDP amounted to 20 percent, which is acceptable in terms of financial security. I would like to conclude that the 2008 State Budget Report was reviewed on the Budget Committee. There is a positive decision by the Budget Committee. And I would like to take this decision into account and support it and offer to approve the report. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m1.u5	Dear colleagues, the report is complete. Please sign up for the question. It's recording. Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov, please ask your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m1.u6	Dear Anatoly Ivanovich, I have deep respect for you as a person and as a professional. But please tell me, why did this happen? Well, you could say they missed the budget at the end of the eighth year. And why was it not possible to adjust, allowable, at the end of the eighth year and then to make the ninth-year budget normal so that the budget itself and the end of last year, and this year's budget, was in line with the economic development of processes in Ukraine, not that the economy went one way and the budgetary process went the other way completely, and those processes were inadequate? Why does the government persist in its position without correcting the budget in the light of economic realities?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m1.u7	Thank you for asking. I would like to inform you, honourable national deputies, that last year the government was offered or supported by six adjustments to the 2008 budget. All these adjustments went to the plus, all to the same correction. And you remember that at the end of 2008, we reviewed the 2009 budget figures for September 15th. These indicators have been substantially reduced according to the reality of economic development. At the time, it was December, all the great macro-prognosisists, the macroeconomicists did not give such a significant pace to the real growth of the economy. Accordingly, a 2009 picture of the situation was prepared and approved by the Supreme Council of the 2009 budget. To date, we have all the tools that fully finance 100 percent of the nine - month spending portion of the 2009 State Budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m1.u8	Mikola Janović Azarov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m1.u9	Anatoly Ivanovich, I understand, of course, that you're talking about what needs to be said for the government. However, of course, no Titanic work of the Government, especially inflation twice as high as that of the 2008 budget, the National Bank's transfer of 3.5 billion grevens on the last banking day of 2008, and so on, has caused, let's say, more or less a budget there at 96 per cent, i.e. you have failed 6.5 billion so far. But my question is not that, the question is that. Why wasn't the social cost of 1 billion 669 million funded? The programme has not been implemented to finance education for 800 million years and so on? That is, what would appear to be the focus of the Government's first attention has not been funded.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m1.u10	Thank you, Mikola Janovich. By income, I said, and you confirmed that the 2008 budget was actually 100 percent done, and by income, we got over the 5.1 billion dollars plan. I also mentioned in the report that one of the risks and budgetary problems in 2009 was the fact that privatization of both property and land with these objects was effectively blocked. And we had 4 billion, 150 million dollars coming from selling this land, 462 million dollars coming in. Of course, these incomes of the special fund have been earmarked for expenses, including certain expenses related to the social component, unfortunately they have not been met, you know about these reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m1.u11	Irina Akimov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m1.u12	Dear Anatoly Ivanovich, the 2008 budget was implemented during the second half of the year in a crisis that the Government of Timoshenko did not wish to notice. At that time, all countries and developed and transformative countries had declared the need to reduce tax pressure on business. We had the exact opposite, more than one-and-a-half VAT arrears and, therefore, almost doubled advances. That is, enterprises in crisis have taken all they could, and we also know that this is a decline in industrial production, construction and GDP at a higher level than in other countries. How, then, can we support the implementation of the 2008 budget today if the Government has continued similar practices in the ninth year and intends to continue it, according to the draft budget, in the tenth year, as you estimate? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m1.u13	Thank you for asking. Now we're looking at the 2008 budget implementation report, of course, that I think it was the most successful period before the crisis, where we were able to secure both the overturning of the income part of the budget and the financing of the expenditure, and even the reduction in the deficit that was planned in the 2008 budget twice against the planned rate. Of course, for 2009, and this is going to be a separate piece of information on this issue, we're going to take all the measures to ensure the spending part of the budget, because this is the basis of social stability in the state. Today in nine months, we have carried out this task in line with the requirements set out in the Law on the State Budget. There are relevant articles that allow you to borrow funds if you do not find the budget’s income. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m1.u14	Katerina Vaschuk, Lithuanian Block faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m1.u15	Dear reporter, I know you as one of the best financiers in Ukraine. But I would like to hear an answer as to how it happened that the predictions of leading scientists at the Academy of Sciences, leading financiers, economists who are in our country were somehow ignored, which would have warned of the crisis that awaits Ukraine. And because of this, a number of mistakes have been made in my view, including more serious attention to the financing of the agricultural sector, which would ensure stability this year. You know, this sector, no matter what, is still trying to hold on. And we didn't do that and we delayed funding for the last months of the year when they did.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m1.u16	Thank you. I understand your question. You know, last year, in 2008, we made a number of amendments to the Budget Act, which significantly increased the financing of the agro-industry complex, especially by adding money to the agrarian fund to buy, remember, at the end of last year, surpluses of grain and sugar in agrarians. I think that's the mechanism that enabled us to actually capitalize on these funds, so not to spend on, so other measures are ongoing, but to transfer them to assets, and this year we're able to do intervention operations in the agricultural market. In addition, regarding the financing of the APC. You know that this year, at the suggestion of your faction, a number of changes were made to tax legislation, which reduced the fiscal pressure on the agri-industrial complex. So I think that, in these difficult circumstances, the government has done its best to keep the village and the agricultural producer going and to ensure that GDP increases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m1.u17	Vladimir Karpuk, faction of our Ukrainian People's Self-Defense.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m1.u18	Vladimir Karpuk, “Our Ukraine”, a parliamentary group “For Ukraine!” Reverend Anatoly Ivanovich! GDP growth in 2008 was projected to increase by 6.5 percent. Real GDP growth is 2.2 percent. And you associate the collapse of GDP with the fourth quarter crisis. However, when you budgeted for 2009, you found that there should be an optimistic rate and a 0.4 percent increase. What were the economic preconditions for drawing up the results of the budget, the implementation of the 2008 budget and such 2009 indicators, at least the previous ones? And the next. You said that the cost of health care increased by 16.8 percent. However, as a percentage of GDP, that is 3.2 percent less than in 2007, when it was 3.4 percent. And, above all, by underfunding government programs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m1.u19	Thank you. I was already talking about last year's review of the budget figures on September 15th. We have substantially reduced it in terms of revenue and use of funds against what was adopted in December. And of course, in December 2007, none of our macroeconomics gave or predicted such sharp cuts or such a long period of global economic recovery from the crisis. So, of course, at the time, there was a real fall from pessimistic, there, 3 percent to optimistic 0.4 percent. Of course, there was a scenario at that time that the crisis would end in the first half of the year, and that way we would be able to restore the economy by the end of 2009. Unfortunately, the rate of decline has turned out to be higher, and we, despite the fact that the decline has taken place at a larger scale than planned, are providing funding for the social sphere.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m1.u20	Thank you, Anatoly Ivanovich, time is up. Have a seat, please. The co-report will now be delivered by the head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Mikola Ivanovich Derkac. The head of the Court of Auditors will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m1.u21	Honourable, Vladimir Mihajlovich, honourable national deputies, in accordance with article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 62 of the Supreme Council Budget Code, should consider the report of the Cabinet of Ministers on the implementation of the 2008 Act on the State Budget and the decision-making of the Council. The Budget Committee at its September 9th meeting, with the participation of representatives of the Court of Auditors and the Ministry of Finance, reviewed the report. During the review of the report, the committee drew attention to the following. The main macroeconomic indicators of economic and social development in 2008 differ significantly from the corresponding projections that were taken into account in the budget's approval. In particular, the real growth in gross domestic product per year was 2.1 percent at 6.8 percent. The consumer price index at the projected level of 109.6 percent and in July 2008 at 115.9 percent was 122.3 percent. The significant deviation of actual macro indicators from projections indicates a lack of a quality macroeconomic forecasting system and a lack of a close relationship with budget planning. It should be noted objectively that the deterioration of the macroeconomic situation in Ukraine during the last months of last year has also been affected by the global financial crisis in 2008. In order for the government's intention to move towards medium-term budgetary planning, it is not simply necessary to ensure that the forecasting macro-indicators for 2010 and the medium-term perspective, taking into account the real state of the economy in the current year. The government budget for 2008 was $231.7 billion, or 99.9 percent, of the changes. The implementation of the general fund's income is primarily provided by the over-planned income tax on the income of enterprises, which comes from the excess of income over the costs of the National Bank, import duties, and the rent on oil. However, no plan has been implemented for the value added tax, for the use of nadrama, for the rent of gas condensate, for the removal of part of the profits of state enterprises and dividends for the state share of household companies in import duties, for the excise congregation. As has been the case in recent years, there has been a significant deviation in the implementation of the special fund’s income plan, which demonstrates imperfect planning. As was the case last year, the under-recovery of the sale of non-agricultural land did not result in the expenditure of a special fund for the reform and development of residential agriculture, housing of socio-cultural workers in rural areas, the acquisition of an ambulance for villages and other socially significant investment costs. Moreover, no order has been developed and a corresponding calculation has been made for the implementation of article 33 of the Law on the Provision of Payments by Citizens of Municipal Services and Energy Services on the basis of partial compensation for the loss of $2 billion in cash savings in total. So in order to determine the actual amount of expenditure of the State Budget Special Fund, the methodology for the planning of individual types of income of the special fund needs to be reviewed. The increase in tax debt was mainly due to the postponement and decommissioning of tax liabilities. Therefore, the Office of Ministers should be entrusted with ensuring that the tax debt is reduced, while banning tax and tax write-offs, delaying and delaying their payment. Another potential source of budget replenishment is tax benefits, which in the past year accounted for 34.5 billion dollars mainly on the added cost of import duty, the income tax for enterprises. According to the 2008 government budget, the deficit amounted to 12.5 billion dollars or 1.3 percent of gross domestic product, including a total fund of 9.7 billion dollars at a level of $21.5 billion and a special amount of 2.8 billion. Last year, as in the previous two years, the plan of revenue from the privatization of state property was not implemented. During 2008, government loans totalled 33.3 billion or 183 percent of the approved amount. More than planned government loans were made in accordance with articles 84 prime. One, eighty-four, two, and eighty-four. 3 laws to increase the statutory capital of state banks and create a stable fund. It should be noted that by targeting government securities for the creation of a stable fund in general, 5.9 billion dollars were involved last year. However, the cost of the stabilisation fund, which was first implemented in 2008, was not incurred by the Special Fund of the State Budget. According to the issuance of the long-term bond of the internal government loan of 17.5 billion dollars, there has been an increase in the statutory capital of Savings and Ukreximbank, which is reflected in the “Financing” section, which has had a real impact on the reduction of the general government budget deficit. In doing so, the “Expensions” section uses 300 million dollars according to the budgetary allocations for this purpose. It is therefore necessary to ensure that clear criteria are developed for the allocation of budget expenditure or for the financing of the budget of expenditure on the formation or increase of statutory capitals of economic operators, including the acquisition of appropriate securities. Last year, there was a trend towards low levels of external loans for the implementation of development projects: 75 percent of the planned rate. Therefore, the planning of such a loan should take into account the objective state of the arrangement and ratification of the relevant agreements, and the government is obliged to establish continuous monitoring and monitoring of the proper implementation of projects by the principal funds managers. The government debt at the end of 2008 was 130.7 billion dollars, or 13.8 percent of the gross domestic product. Last year, it increased by almost two times and exceeded the approved limit of 41.6 billion dollars. This overstatement took place on the basis of the statutory right to over-planned government loans and was caused by a significant devaluation of the official exchange rate for foreign currencies at the end of last year. It should be borne in mind that the rapid increase in government debt over the past year is evidence of threats to the future. In 2008, the General Fund of the State Budget included 5.6 billion dollars of the surplus budget, and the special fund accounted for more than 5 billion dollars. The issue remains the calculation in the “Financing” section of the other calculations, which directly influence the determination of the amount of budget balances. By the end of 2008, they accounted for 2 billion dollars in total and largely reflected the exchange rate difference in relation to the overestimation of government debt. In 2008, the government budget had reached 749 million dollars in repayments or 48 percent of the approved rates. In order to improve the state budget, it is proposed that effective measures be taken to improve the payment of outstanding debts to the state budget for such loans. Government budget expenditures for 2008 amounted to 241.5 billion dollars, or 95.4 per cent of budget allocations, of which for the total fund was 193.3 billion dollars or 96.6 per cent of budget allocations. Protected expenditure by economic structure totalled $144.7 billion, or 98.5 percent of budget allocations, and accounted for 74.9 percent of the expenditure of the general fund. The annual numerous requests to the Committee on Budget Questions to agree on the redistribution of budgetary allocations show a low quality of budget planning by the main managers of the funds. Lack of a government report on comprehensive budget performance analysis does not allow for a proper evaluation of the efficiency of budget use.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m1.u22	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m1.u23	For the purpose of budgeting. budgeting. Therefore, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine an appropriate commission. Last year, there was a deterioration in payment discipline for fund managers, including an increase of 2.6 times in the amount of debt owed to the general fund. There has also been a significant increase in the lending and receivable of the general fund mainly for agrarian operations. Subsidies from the state budget are worth 28.7 billion dollars, or 88.7 percent of the budget. The main reasons for the recalculation not in the full amount of subsidies were the failure to implement the corresponding income plan of the State budget special fund, the delay in adopting a series of subsidies and their objective distribution, the unevenness of the recalculation of individual subsidies over the year, and the lack of adequate local budget commitments. The Committee drew attention to the absence of a validated methodology for calculating the amounts of subsidies and based calculations for them*** in the formulation of State budget indicators. Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Budget Affairs recommends that the Supreme Council accept as a basis and as a whole the draft Supreme Council Order No. 4422-d. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m1.u24	Thank you. Dear colleagues, since there is a special point among the members of the committee who have made an alternative draft decision, perhaps so. Valentina Konstantinovich, wait a minute. So maybe this is how we're going to do it so that we don't interrupt, five minutes to give an alternative point of view to the committee member of Hellshenko Alexander, and then we're going to hear a report from the head of the House of Auditors? No objections? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m1.u25	Respectable colleagues, respected voters, did not last nine months, as we began to consider the outcome of the Government's 2008 budget work. The 2008 report of the Cabinet of Ministers of State Budget is a very important and effective tool in the fight against the economic crisis, which is destroying the country today. But given the negative trends that have been, we could use this negative experience to change the 2009 budget and the 2010 budget concept. With regard to the specific problems of the 2008 budget, they began, as in the 2009 budget, when it was considered in 2007. In Ukraine, unfortunately, the axiom is rooted, which is better than no budget. This could be accepted if the budget approved in 2007 was bad or very bad. Unfortunately, however, he did not reach any of these parameters. From the investigation, we have conclusions and the reality of the situation that is putting Ukraine today in view of the completion of the 2008 budget in the real situation of bankruptcy. In particular, as a result of the previous 2008 real GDP growth was 2.1 per cent, or almost 400 per cent less than the Government had planned. I appeal to you, Anatoly Ivanovich, to a great specialist: how could you make a satisfactory assessment if you made a 400 per cent mistake in such a major and important indicator? The same applies to consumer price increases. At your planned rate of 9.6, again, 200 per cent were counted. What are you talking about? That in a civilized country may be a 5-10 per cent error, you have 200-300-400 per cent. Reducing public support for the most vulnerable sectors of citizens, reducing the standard of living of the population, and the high consumer inflation that was typical of your work in 2008. The minimum wage, one person's living minimum per month, has actually fallen by 15 per cent. The payments received from the State by the most vulnerable did not provide a minimum level of social protection. In addition, owing to the delay of a single tariff network, every budget officer in 2008 has not received 20 per cent of his salary by phased implementation. This is thanks to the excellent work of this excellent Government. Overall, the real income of the population was less than 5 per cent in the previous year. It's not in any civilized country. Real wages have been the worst in eight years. The amount not reimbursed by the value added tax payer increased from 5 billion to 14. Respectable industries are money taken from your working capital. It's money that's been banned from those bonuses and the pay opportunities that we talked about. It has already been said that we hear on several occasions that the National Bank is bad, that the Government has no leverage. Perhaps the trance of nearly 4 billion in recent days has been listed by beautiful eyes. As a result of the inflation factor, budget revenues, if any, have increased from our electorate's purse. The increase in public debt beyond the limits established by law has increased by 90 per cent since 2008. This is not the case in any country in a crisis. External debt increased by 60 per cent, internal debt increased by 2.5 times. There are many meaningful examples of the revision of budget programmes. No additional 1 billion under the State budget for the financing of education; housing: 1.9; housing and utilities: 675. Tell me, what other shortcomings must be in the work of the Government in order for it to repent? My proposed bill has two main points. The first point that calls for a confession.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m1.u26	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m1.u27	Two points. First point. It is not satisfactory to recognize the work of the Government. Second paragraph. All materials should be sent to the Attorney General's Office. Because she's worth it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m1.u28	Thank you. The head of the Chamber of Auditors, Simonenko Valentin Kostinović, is invited to the report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m1.u29	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! To begin with, I would like to remind you that, in accordance with existing legislation, this May, the College of Auditors reviewed and sent you an expert review of the implementation of the 2008 budget. Six months have passed and no comments have been made on the findings of the examination. Thus, the implementation of the State budget last year was carried out in the context of a systematic slowdown in economic development, an inadequate response by the Government to the challenges and trends in the domestic and world economies, which led to the failure to meet virtually all macroeconomic and budgetary indicators taken into account in the adoption of the State budget. For the first time in ten years, industrial production declined in 2008. In fact, the growth in real gross domestic product was 3.3 times less than the projected figures recorded in the budget income calculation. As a result, over 10 billion dollars of planned income have not been allocated to the budget. The Government has not assessed external risks and, above all, a sharp reduction in demand for major export products. As a result, this year's deficit in balance of payments was about 13 billion dollars at the end of the year. Or 2.4 times more than last year. Again, for the first time in ten years, there has been a negative balance of payments of more than 3 billion, which we believe is the main factor in the decline in the rate of the bracelet. Last year, inflation stood at 22.3 per cent and double the 2008 budget rate and 1.3 times the previous year. The Government has not been able to develop adequate time-consuming economic policies and implement the budget. In general, the government's income plan in the past has not been implemented by $6.9 billion, but the overpayment of the common fund, which has been so much and so well reported by the Government, has largely been achieved through the non-refundation of $14 billion in value added tax, the availability of 8.6 billion in overpayments, 3.5 billion in advances, the so-called illegal payments of the National Bank. The pay discipline has deteriorated on the condition of write-off, think of it, 5 billion bracelets, tax debt of economic operators, clearance of 2.2 billion bracelets, tax debt has not decreased, but has increased, and has exceeded 9 billion bracelets. Expenditures of the State budget last year have not been met and have not been incurred at the rate of 22 billion grevens, and no appointments have been made at the expense of the General Fund. But most importantly, almost all of the funds in the common fund, which is not much, 180 billion bracelets are aimed at current consumption, food. In doing so, the Government has managed to ignore the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine to restore the benefits and guarantees of individual citizens, violating the constitutional rights and freedoms of at least 5.3 million citizens of our country. Lack of targeted budgetary policies, unprofessional actions by the financial services of the chief budget managers have resulted in poor budgetary management. The debt of credit was rising as on the yeasts, amounting to 6 billion grevens, and the receivable was not lagging and reached 5 billion bracelets. For the first time in the last five years, even the statutory income of the special fund has not been met by more than 5 billion bracelets. The issue of a special fund in the current legal field allows for the establishment and use of almost out of Parliament's control. Thus, during the past year, the amount of the Special Fund's income has been self-increased by the budget manager for 7 billion dollars. However, because of inconsistent budgetary policies, the Government has steadily increased the share of State-wide taxes and revenues that have been placed in the special fund and without the knowledge of Parliament. The massive withdrawal of public tax charges from the general fund narrows the basis for State spending, limits the budget policy field and creates the ground for corruption. Take, for example, the funds made available to special funds and agencies in the form of payment of legal persons and citizens for administrative services provided by officials. We've been looking into a number of ministries. According to our data, law enforcement agencies, such as the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the State Tax Administration, customs authorities, issue about one and a half million permits per year, with fees of more than 160 million bracelets. These funds are largely made available to the special fund. For example, in the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the administrative fees for the GAI permit system are standard. and all of this is covered by the decisions of the Government. The standards for the provision of such services for today are not available in the State. In many cases, they are overestimated in two, three, fourfold, as they include the salaries of officials who receive from the general State fund. Thus, the large amounts of the budget, which last year is about 46 billion dollars or the fifth part of the entire state budget, remain out of parliamentary control: you do not distribute, but you do distribute the executive power. The issue of a legislative solution to this problem has already matured, but unfortunately the problem remains out of the Government's perspective, both in 2009 and in the new draft budget for 2010. Failure to implement the income part of the budget, lack of income from privatization during the year reduced fund balances to single treasury accounts. So it's 1.09.09 in general. The balance was only 2.2 billion bracelets. Nikolai Janović here said why did they transfer 3.5 billion on the last day two hours before closing the bench? That's because if we didn't transfer the $3.5 billion illegally, there would just be a negative in a single treasury account. At the same time, the provision of further social benefits in the same January had to be made up of 6.2 billion. Unfortunately, this trend has become a norm. The Government's inconsistent economic policies last year led to a sharp decline in the standard of living of the population. In particular, with nominal growth, the minimum wage has fallen by 3.9 per cent and the subsistence minimum by 13.8. Overall, the real income of the population decreased by 5.2 per cent compared with the previous year. But what is most unpleasant in this case is the poverty rate in 2008 has grown rapidly and reached 27 per cent. In rural areas, the poverty rate was down 38 per cent, closing the corresponding figures in 2000, when the Government's comprehensive poverty eradication programme began. Yeah. We've worked on the fight for poverty! Last but not least, I would like to draw the attention of the distinguished people's deputies. Assessing the implementation of Ukraine's State budget in 2008, the root cause of the rise in the negative processes of the country's threatening economic situation and the imbalance in public finances lies, above all, in the absence of a development strategy, in the unresolved systemic problems in the economy. And the global financial crisis has only become a catalyst and has exacerbated these problems, but has not given birth to them. The Government, with its unprofessional approach to assessing the real situation in the economy and public finances, with an attempt, quote, “not to put the crisis on the threshold”, was unable to minimize losses in the economy and the financial sector and faced the crisis with no closed doors, but with spread volumes in principle: the crisis would all be overturned. Thank you. I've got everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m1.u30	Thank you, Valentin Costinovich. Please, Valentin Kostunica, on the rostrum. Valentina Konstantinovich! Is there a question for the head of the calculus? Please sign in. Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m1.u31	Thank you. Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, Party of Regions Dear Valentin Konstantinovich, well, in principle, I have repeatedly stressed that it is good that there is the Court of Auditors, although to an extreme degree impartially, objectively with economic rhetoric, and without political ecstasy, we can hear true things. Please tell me if I got this right. The predicted macroindicators proved false. After that, every kind of government stunt and adventure began: the freezing of wages, the rise in tax pressure, the freezing of public funding and the main violent injustice, your point of view, this violent injustice of inter-budget transfers. Your attitude, like the heads of the Court of Auditors, is to the so-called Institute of Additional Exclusion. For example, in Zaporozhye region, where the cost of bridge construction is now lacking, hundreds of millions of dollars have been removed. What can be done to deal with these so - called additional budget cuts?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m1.u32	But above all, macroeconomic indicators are not invented; they are, we will say, totally unrealistic as in 2008, 2009 and 2010. The basic principles of governance are: to lead – to anticipate. So the people who gave macroeconomic indicators were unable to predict the processes and risks they would face next year for that period. And as far as your second question is concerned, you don't have to be comforted, as it is said, that we will take 12,000 budgets from the Supreme Council, not from the Supreme Council, from the Ministry of Finance, from the Cabinet of Ministers. Today, virtually all local budgets are not available. Local development budgets are not available. Budgets, local budgets have become payrolls for the budget and all.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m1.u33	Matvienko Anatoly Kostinović is referring the right to a question to the national deputy Lazko. Oleg Valeriyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m1.u34	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear Valentinovich, you were absolutely right to say that there is no money in the local budgets. It was to solve this problem at the initiative of the government that a new budget code was adopted, which greatly strengthens the financial base of local self - government, but is now being dedicated by the President. So when you say that local budgets don't have money, you tell me whose fault they don't have money for. That's the first one. And the second. They listened to your report, yes. You read reports submitted by the Auditorium to the Budget Committee, professional reports. The head of the Court of Auditors comes out, and this is an engaged political report that has no economic circumstances whatsoever. Isn't it because you're 65 years old and it's time for you to retire, and you're still in that position? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m1.u35	What I'm about to tell you is not a distinguished national MP, what I'm about to tell you. My report, my report -- it's the concentration of what's written in this book that I gave you, in this document that I gave you. I'm in charge of any given number. Moreover, it is proved by the calculations and analysis given in this book. Read it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m1.u36	Gordijenko Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m1.u37	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Poltavščina Dear Valentin Konstantinovich, the biggest trouble we have in Ukraine is that we haven't been in economic production for 18 years, and we've never heard of it in these halls, ending with a village council, a social and economic development plan, as we'll be. And all we hear is how the budget divides is the biggest disaster. But my question to you is this. Last year, I asked you with a parliamentary request that in November 2008 a large amount of funds had been made available from the state budget to build the first line of the Holocaust Memorial. You said you'd look into it in college and transfer it to the U.S. Attorney General's Office. Was this done, and what have we heard nothing about it?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m1.u38	This has been done, in fact, before the Committee of the Supreme Council. All the documents that were needed, and the Committee has 100 per cent supported our conclusions and recommended, and we have handed them all over to the Attorney General's Office. Do you have any questions?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m1.u39	Landik Valentin Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m1.u40	Please pass the word "Peklushenko."
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m1.u41	Dear Valentin Konstantinović, despite your young age and fine physical form, I must say today that the only objective body that gives any kind of analysis is the body that you lead. Thank you. As far as my question is concerned, it will be specific for the four billion in 2008 that the Supreme Council has allocated to the Western areas of submergment. You're the only reason we got some critical analysis. Regrettably, the Cabinet of Ministers has only sent a summary of their experience to the Commission. How do you feel about my proposal for this issue to be addressed in the Supreme Council and for you to address the facts of the theft and abuse of this amount?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m1.u42	You know, the question is, it's archiving. We're going around the circle. All reported, consumed, spent several tens of billions of bracelets and, as of 01.01.2009, 30.000 302 sites were not completed, to be introduced in 2008. Now turn on the TV – and you will see that it is happening again first: the villages are circling again, the plans are being drawn up again, there are billions again on what is said to be built in 2008. With regard to your proposal, we are always open to any of your questions. We have the materials. Speaking of which, we handed him over to the Special Commission today. If you find it necessary, I will be happy to address you and inform you of all these matters.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m1.u43	Thank you, Valentin Costinovich. Have a seat, please. Please report to the Cabinet of Ministers on the implementation of the 2008 State Budget. Akim's Irina Mikhailovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m1.u44	Dear colleagues, we have now heard very many figures from the Deputy Minister of Finance, who have tried to convince us that the 2008 budget has been well implemented. Several phrases can be used to sum up the implementation of the 2008 budget. He was initially unrealistic, he walked, his implementation was in violation of the law and in particular the Constitutional Court's decision to return, finance social, some social benefits. It has led to a significant reduction in real living standards. I mean the real minimum wage and the real minimum standard of living. It has led to a sharp rise in the tax burden on business. And we know how it ended in 2009. This budget has begun an active public debt policy inadvertently and ineffectively. He led many social programs to underfunded. This is both health care and education, and it would not be simply wrong to call the 2008 budget a success, it would be criminal. Now that we vote in favour of whether or not implementation is satisfactory, we will also vote in favour of our support or non-support for the 2009 and 2010 budgetary process. All that happened in the eighth year is also true in the ninth year: it's the pressure on business, it's the failure to comply with social standards, it's a violation of the law, it's a manual regime, it's a rise in public debt. That's why I urge you to think carefully about the button. If such a budgetary policy continues, if we give it the opportunity to move forward in 2010, Ukraine will not be able to do so. That is why I propose to vote against the adoption of the 2008 budget report of the Government and to find it unsatisfactory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m1.u45	Alexandrovska Alla Alexandrovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m1.u46	Dear colleagues! With the many figures cited in the Government's ruling, which now speak in the Hall, our citizens find it difficult to understand why their lives have deteriorated. After all, it seems that the income of the General Fund of the State Budget has been overrun by up to 5 billion 69 million. It's for the people. Well, crazy numbers when they get 800 bracelets of wages. And it looks like five billion is overrun, so where is this money, why are we living so badly? But we're not going to be surprised at anything, because this overstatement is the result of intense coffee pots, Nazbank's work, which, as we know, is difficult to refer to as major producers of material goods, unless, of course, money is given to them. Of course, overcompensation was also achieved through the collection of advances during the tax period and the non-refundation of value added tax. But most importantly, in 2008 the State budget was not met at the expense, which is what our citizens feel in their normal lives. And if the total non-conformity rate is 91.7 per cent, the most underfunded were housing and utilities; 91.8 per cent of the funding for the spiritual and physical development of the budget lines in this area of activity was implemented; 92.4 per cent of the cost of health was financed. [[total 39.7 per cent funded, expenditure budget implemented]] It's just not very good with education. Is it worth saying that our citizens feel this directly? Indeed, the increase in housing and utilities tariffs, the increase in the share of paid services in education, health care is inevitable because the budget does not finance the corresponding expenditure lines. Therefore, it is natural that the establishment of this area, especially housing and utilities, begins to seek its income in the pockets of residents by raising tariffs and raising prices for its services. Unfortunately, the Government has not responded to the Constitutional Court's decision of 22 May 2008 on the restoration of benefits and guarantees to certain categories of citizens, although we have repeatedly returned to the Supreme Council. In the face of the global financial crisis, the Government would have to monitor more seriously the effective use of available credit funds. However, the analysis of the utilization of the contingency fund suggests the opposite. I will not repeat that you have all become familiar with the Court of Auditors, which shows what funds have been diverted for the wrong purpose and what violations of the regulations have been committed. In particular, many regulations have been violated by the Cabinet of Ministers for the allocation of funds from the contingency fund, which cannot but concern us. 60 million to the Ukrainian Institute of National Remembrance of the Memorial of the Victims of Holodomor in Ukraine. That is to say, the Government had already allocated 133 in July.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m1.u47	Alla Alexandrovna, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m1.u48	Yeah. Money was allocated and 80 million were also allocated in the form of a grant from Gosbudget to the city of Kiev. In short, the natural disaster in the western areas of Ukraine has taught us nothing, the great resources that we have spent with you to deal with this disaster have been dead, the work has not been fully funded, many work has not been completed, and the money that you understand has not been able to deal with, or to spend 100 per cent on two sites, but to complete them, and then these facilities have worked. Regrettably, I no longer mention that, at the meeting of the budgetary committee, we have repeatedly diverted money from one of the schedules of funds, which also speaks of shortfalls in budget planning. I hope that all these shortcomings will be brought to an end and that next year we will face a very different work of the Government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m1.u49	Arjewitin Stanislav Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m1.u50	I beg your pardon, but you understand from my report, of course, the assessment of the Government is unsatisfactory.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m1.u51	Dear colleagues! I would like to say exclusively about the cut that is happening in the Zakartat region, how the budget in this complex area is being implemented. All critical programs, which were defined by individual decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, were actually executed by 30 percent and slightly more. These are programs such as anti-removal measures according to a comprehensive program approved by the Cabinet of Ministers. This is a separate decision on the removal of citizens from active displacement areas, which is the financing of a comprehensive flood protection programme in the Tisa River Basin, which is the completion of rehabilitation work on the Zacharta district’s municipal property, which was destroyed by a natural disaster last year. I'm not talking about the construction of gas pipelines in the villages that are in the areas of the national parks, these are villages like the village of Kolocavo, the Inter-Igor region, this is the gas distribution station in the village of Turi Remeti, where there are 900,000 dollars left to set on fire. By the way, 18 years people in these villages have been waiting for gas pipelines to be completed. I don't want to talk about other programs that haven't been implemented, but I think if this is how the budget is going to be done in 2009, I don't think the heads of the Cabinet of Ministers should be able to go to the Svalava sanatorium, in the Solotvino sanatorium, in the Shayana sanatorium and all that sort of thing, you're not going to have to go to the Svalava sanatorium. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m1.u52	Bondarenko Volodymir Dmitrovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m1.u53	Vladimir Bondarenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear friends, there have been so many figures here that the most important economists, and there are so many of them in the hall, they've obviously got mixed up in them. I would like to go back to the common sense and logic of events, including the budgetary process. So let's start with how does this budget differ from the previous one? This is the first budget in the history of Ukraine that was formed in a crisis. And it worked out in a crisis. We haven't had any experience in shaping these budgets. And yet, unfortunately, there is not. Because we are not trying to analyze how to act, including operating on a budget in crisis situations, but we are trying to destroy it in every way, break it to pieces, and criticize it. So what I want to remind you is that the world's greatest economists, once again, don't understand the trends that are in crisis, and what will they lead to, and what will happen tomorrow? Today you can say what happened yesterday. We had a budget that was being implemented and successfully implemented and there was no breakdown, virtually no serious budget index, despite the fact that the decline of the economy, objectively caused by the world crisis, was too serious. I would like to point out that this criticism has been unconstructive, starting with the beginning of the budget formation, and it has been done, both by all kinds of "slaps" from the President's Office and by former Deputy Prime Minister and former finance ministers, and by a whole group of pensioners from the Court of Auditors. Despite their criticism, we see that the budget is being implemented. Ask any teacher, did he get paid or did he get paid? Everybody got it. Ask any pensioner, any of them, or have there been a break at least once in retirement? Ask the student if they missed his scholarship and didn't give him how it was done in previous years? All of them may not understand the depth of the processes that are going on, including in the Supreme Council and in society, when blocking is going on consciously, so that laws and regulations that have supported the economic policy of the government are not adopted. So today those who are critics of this have deliberately taken steps to prevent the government from implementing the budget. But it's coming true. And today's budget can be criticised, but it has to be acknowledged that it was done in Ukraine under conditions of crisis. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that for the first time in Ukraine, more than 26 billion cubic feet [26 billion cubic meters] of gas is attached to the shelter. For the first time, we do not shake off the cold but on what our neighbor will do on gas issues. For the first time, we gathered the harvest without too much shouting and fighting for the harvest. And they've done a lot of other things. So let's face it, the government has worked in terrible conditions of destruction by the opposition and by the Presidential Authority, and has endured this process, and the budget needs to be recognized as being done properly.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m1.u54	Thank you. National MP Gordienko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m1.u55	Honorable Chairman, Honourable Citizens of Ukraine! Ukraine's budget is always a problem for the people of Ukraine and for our voters. I would like to start by saying that, for 18 years now, no one in the Parliamentary Hall of the Supreme Council or in the sessional halls of district and district councils has spoken of socio-economic development programmes in any country or region or region or in any rural or rural council. No one talks about the organization of production, and if there is no production, there is neither a rural nor a district budget. I'd like to say that this fills the budget. In 18 years of so-called reforms, and in fact the destruction of the national economy, we've given up today. The state has rid itself of all that it fills. That's what fills the budget. Today, it has moved into private hands and is working for families, clans, and groups, not for the State and for the Ukrainian people. I'm giving you this example as a Poltanian, because no one today tells you about Poltavščina, which is the largest oil and gas region in Ukraine, where great national wealth is being produced. But today, no one tells me or the Ukrainians or my natives about how much oil and gas is being extracted, how many wells are being extracted, and who are they belonging to, at what price, and where are the raw materials coming from, and where are they coming from? And so with our resources in all the regions of Ukraine, where will the budget come from if it works, not for the country, but for the people, but for the families and the clans?Oh, my God! I'd like to say how the budget is being implemented. And something to remind us and the voters of Ukraine about the 2008 state budget. It's the most outstanding government budget here today that says it's the best government ever. It was in this budget that 102 social articles in the 2008 budget were suspended when they were elected under social slogans. This budget is largely underfunded, especially in the agro-industrial complex, and many budget articles have not been implemented or funded. I'd like to draw everyone's attention to the rational use of even what's acquired. I did not in vain ask questions to the Head of the Court of Auditors. An order from the government in November.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m1.u56	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m1.u57	In November 2008, a huge sum of funds was allocated to the Cabinet of Ministers from the State Budget Reserve Fund for the construction of the first queue for the famine victims. Unless these were the most necessary and urgent expenses, those expenses that could not be foreseen in the state budget, but that they should be financed from a reserve fund that is specifically earmarked to finance exactly what cannot be predicted. This today is a huge violation of the law of Ukraine, the Constitution of Ukraine. To this I drew the attention of both the Attorney General’s Office and the Court of Auditors. And today, I would ask you to consider my parliamentary request to attract officials of the Cabinet of Ministers for allowing these abuses to take place. Under these conditions, the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine will not support the 2008 State Budget Report.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m1.u58	Azarov Mikola Janović, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m1.u59	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! This is where I got a speech from Deputy Bondarenko, who told me that the unique budget, the record budget. I would just like to say at the outset that the 2008 budget laid the groundwork for a full-scale crisis in Ukraine's economy, unfortunately. Let us remember that no crisis has formed the 2008 budget, Mr. Bondarenko, to refresh your memory. And it grew in good economic conditions in 2007 with 8 per cent of GDP. And the balances in the treasury accounts that Timoshenko received were $24 billion in fines. The gas reserves, to your attention, were over 30 billion cubic metres of gas. I could give you a lot of other figures as opposed to your completely empty lie. But what I want to say is that it was the budget, the revision of the 2008 budget, which Timoshenko carried out in the spring, that just undermined the foundations of financial and economic stability. It is precisely where the causes of all the troubles that have affected Ukraine's economy must be found. Construction had collapsed in July 2008, and economic growth had reversed and had fallen. By September, we had already received absolute drop figures. It's a truth you don't like very much. The 2008 unprecedented budget is also due to the fact that for the first time, we have seized 40 billion dollars of rubble, the Government, by issuing bonds. Before that, the Government had occupied, at best, 4 to 5 billion a year, and this is where we took 40 for the first time. And this year, in 2009, 80 were taken. And next year, you're planning to take 120. It's a road to nowhere. Therefore, of course, I call upon the responsible deputies, who have at least a pair of curves in their heads and have not a complete conscience, to reject this budget, to adopt the decree rendered by Pecklusenko, and thus to show that it is not possible to do so. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m1.u60	Popov Alexander Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m1.u61	Dear colleagues, if someone today says that the world crisis is connected with the problems that we unfortunately have, with the trend of housing and utility, please do not believe it, it is at least self-deception. In fact, the crisis that arose led to a sharp decline in prices on the world market for natural gas. And for that reason, we could, in principle, expect even lower prices for housing and utility services. But it was in 2008 that we had a completely different trend. The tariffs have increased by more than 30 per cent, which is plus 3 billion fines from the pocket of the population, as a result of the policy, namely the fiscal and economic policy that was adopted and approved by the 2008 budget. I already called this year's budget an obituary for the housing and utility industry. And that is true because it was in 2008 that all the positive trends achieved a year earlier were turned in the opposite direction. During this period, one billion 600 losses were incurred in the housing and utility sectors. During this period, wages for workers in this area increased by 10 times. Dear colleagues, we have heard in the reports that more than 60 billion revenue has been increased in the 2008 budget. A 2-fold reduction was planned for the JCC area and actual implementation was 4 times lower than in 2007. This is what respectable colleagues are doing, and there is a reason for all the problems that are being exacerbated to date in this area, including social protection of the population, in connection with the rise in housing and utility tariffs. Regrettably, this trend is also apparent in the ninth year. How much money do you think we have for the industry? Zero greven. How much do you think we put in the draft budget for next year on the CDC? So is zero greven. What are the solutions to industry problems if all State programmes are reversed and not implemented? It's a complete utopia to expect something positive. This is the Government's fault.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m1.u62	Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m1.u63	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies! The imbalance in Ukraine's 2008 State Budget Act and the change to some Ukrainian legislative acts, the failure of the government to ensure proper implementation of the 2008 budget and the inefficient use of limited budgetary resources have led to an exacerbation of the socio-economic situation in the country, a significant increase in inflation rates, a decline in the standard of living of the population and a decrease in the level of social protection, an increase in tax pressure on business and the spread of other economic crises. This was the result of inadequate implementation by the government of budgetary policy in 2008. In particular, firstly, the failure to confirm the main economic and social development indicators of Ukraine, which were taken into account in the 2008 project of the Ukrainian State Budget. Second, the decline in state support for the most vulnerable categories of citizens and the decline in population. Third, restrictions on benefits and guarantees to individual categories of citizens. At the same time, the government did not comply with the stated decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine regarding the recovery of the benefits and guarantees to individual citizens, but with the ruling of 8 / 05. 2008 No530 "Some issues of social protection of individual categories of citizens" introduced restrictions on social guarantees, resulting in a narrowing of the content and scope of constitutional and other legislative guarantees of human and civil rights and freedoms. Four. The revenue part of the budget was implemented by increasing tax pressure on taxpayers, by washing the company’s circulation costs, by increasing the State’s debt to taxpayers due to timely VAT non-reimbursement, and by increasing overpayments, inflationary and emission taxes. Taking into account and taking into account the exacerbation of budgetary problems, their impact on economic dynamics and the further decline in the standard of living of citizens in the absence of a proper response from the Cabinet of Ministers is appropriate, firstly, the work of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the implementation of the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2008 and amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine is not satisfactory. The report on the implementation of the 2008 Act on the State Budget of Ukraine and the amendment of certain legislative acts of Ukraine shall not be approved. The other one. To admit that despite the deterioration in the standard of living of citizens, further economic downturn in the core sectors of the real economy, the worsening of the budgetary problems of the Cabinet of Ministers in the current year is not taking adequate comprehensive anti-crisis measures to prevent and minimize possible losses from the financial and economic crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m1.u64	Kseniya Mikhailovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m1.u65	Xenia Lapina, group “For Ukraine!” Of course, the 2008 budget, which we are currently discussing, has set up those trends that we have then seen in the 2009 budget. These trends in the income portion of the budget can unfortunately be called two categories. The first category is the increase in government debt, which in 2009 became simply uncontrollable and the second trend, is the advance payment of taxes, the actual extortion of the last funds from business, the non-return of VAT. That is how the government worked and budgeted in the fourth quarter of 2008. Unfortunately, we also see the trends that are set in the expenditure section of the budget and they are also very negative, it's the non-funding of basic programs, which are very important, about the housing and utilities programme, that's a lot to talk about. But I'll remind you of other programs, they are, for example, in the medical field. You know, it's a practically underfunded TB program. And we know that in the fourth quarter of 2008, when we started devaluation of the national currency, we know that unfortunately, the vast majority of the drugs that are needed to buy to fight tuberculosis are imported drugs. We had a huge price increase, and we had a surprising program, and we had a lot of other programs, and it's only in the medical field, and at the same time, we've seen trends since September that we've been really worried about. For example, in this room, a law was very friendly in September to promote the prestige of mining. On the one hand, we all realize that coal miners are working in difficult conditions, they need to be supported, on the other hand, we all know that there is no budget anymore. We've already seen that the crisis knocked out the windows and entered Ukraine, even though someone didn't want to start it. And at that point, we voted on a law that actually increased the expenditure of the Pension Fund by four billion without having the income part. I think it was a huge mistake when the political forces took steps in popular, unfortunately, this trend, and I'm here to say that there are no right and wrongs, because both BUT and the Party of Regions voted in favour of this law. Now, you don't have to criticize each other, it's the beginning of a budget break. And it continued in 2009. I want to point out that the solution to this situation is to be found. You have to stop giving individual gifts to individual categories, even social categories. We have to go the way that all countries go. We can raise minimum social standards, for which our group "For Ukraine!" has voted, and these standards are equal to all of them.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m1.u66	Complete, please, Kseniya Mikhailnovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m1.u67	And they're raising the standard of living accordingly, but they can't be distributed to elephants in the 2009 and 2010 budgets. That's for the future. I don't think it's a good job in terms of budgeting and budgeting, both in the eighth and ninth years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m1.u68	The closing statement is by Anatoly Ivanovich Merkowski, Deputy Minister of Finance. Wait a minute, I'm sorry. The name of Vladimir Ivanovich Bondarenko was mentioned, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m1.u69	Dear friends, I may not have spoken anymore, but I want to get a line. And I'm talking to those who have more than two laces in their heads, because here they've accused someone of having less. Perhaps less in those who have not been able to learn Ukrainian while in the highest positions of state. That's the first one. The other one. I want to point out that the gas that was in the vaults at the time, and the gas that is now, is different. It belonged to Firthash, and this belonged to the Ukrainian State. The aviation sector, led by your leader’s godfather, was torn to pieces. Today it rises. And today the government has spent a huge amount of money on it. And I'll remind the great economist that there's another economic analysis of why the GDP was growing when you were in charge. There is now a concept of internal consumption of electricity that is always linked to the growth of production. So you had a stable consumption of electricity, and you wrote to yourself on the basis of the manipulations of GDP growth. The prosecution will still have to answer for who did these manipulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m1.u70	Anatoly Ivanovich Merkovsky, please conclude.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m1.u71	Ladies and gentlemen, we have listened to all the comments and critical positions relating to the 2008 budget. And I've already reported that this budget, the performance report, has been heard and discussed by the Committee on Budget Issues. And the Committee on Budget Affairs has decided to approve the report of the Cabinet of Ministers on the implementation of the budget. So the position of the government is to support this decision of the budgetary committee and to present to the Supreme Council a draft decision prepared by the Cabinet of Ministers on the approval of the 2008 Budget Implementation Report, taking into account those proposals that have been recorded in the Committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m1.u72	Thank you, Anatoly Ivanovich. The closing word is Mikola Ivanovich, please. You refuse, there's no need. Dear colleagues, this concludes the discussion. We have three draft rulings with you. One draft decision was sent by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. From what Anatoly Ivanovich has just said, I understand that you are authorized by the government to withdraw this project. Did I get you right?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m1.u73	Well, we support the budget committee's draft decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m1.u74	Then I'll ask you a question. On April 29, 2009, you sent a draft of the 2008 Ukrainian State Budget Implementation Regulation to the Supreme Council. Are you the project that was sent, registered for Number 4422 or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m1.u75	No, we don't.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m1.u76	You're not calling me back. Thank you, thank you. So we have three draft decrees. One is introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers, two are introduced by the Ukrainian National Deputies. We're going to start a vote on the draft decree passed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I put to the vote a draft decree on the implementation of the 2008 Ukrainian State Budget Report by the Government of Ukraine. [[No.4422]] I'd like to make a statement. [[17:44:39]] For-170. The decision is not taken. The draft Resolution on the Implementation of the Ukrainian Law “On Ukraine’s 2008 State Budget and Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine” by People’s Deputies Derkach, Kirilczuk, Kulikov and others is on the vote. Please make up your mind. [[17:45:17]] For 175 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, all have materials that were distributed to each national MP and contain 10 pages. Please read carefully and draw conclusions. I am voting on the draft Decree on the Implementation of the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2008 and amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts by the People's Deputies of Pecklusenko, MacKayenkov, Burlakov. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:46:07]] For 176 The decision is not taken. Thus, honourable colleagues, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has not approved any decisions on the 2008 budget implementation report of the Cabinet of Ministers. We move on to the next issue of agenda, information from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the implementation of the State Budget of Ukraine in the first half of 2009. Reported by Merkovsky Anatoly Ivanovich, Deputy Finance Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m1.u77	Ladies and gentlemen, the government will report in accordance with the Supreme Council's decision to implement the State Budget in the first half of 2009. It should be noted that the state budget was formed in the face of a global financial economic crisis, a reduction in industrial production, an increasing crisis in the banking system, and an overall deterioration in the balance of payments, as well as a sharp decline in the national currency. The 2009 budget, together with this, has a certain stabilizing function, which has not been seen in the budgets of previous years, especially in December of last year, we knew that we need considerable resources to support the real economy sector and a stable fund has been set up in accordance with Ukraine's laws. The amount of tree expenditure. 20 billion dollars. The 2009 budget also provided 44 billion dollars for the recapitalization of the banking system. The basic social benefits for citizens who were also increased in 2008. The government’s efforts to stabilize the core sectors of the economy and stimulate domestic demand have led to a break in the negative trends seen at the end of 2008 and early 2009. In industry, there is a steady trend towards growth in almost all activities. The monthly increase in the volume of production was first recorded in February by 5.4 and March by 8.3 percent and continued in May, June, and also during the last months, such as growth, showing both internal and export-oriented sectors. The continuation of anti-inflation measures has contributed to a slowdown in the consumer price index in the first half of the year, since the beginning of the year, consumer price indices have increased by 8.6 per cent, down from 15.5 per cent in the first half of 2008 and accounted for 8.2 per cent in eight months. In 2009, there were continuing trends in external economic activity. Thus, exports and imports decreased by 46 percent compared to the same period last year, and imports decreased by 51.3 percent. A positive is the reduction in the negative external trade balance — only $500 million in six months, and already in the second quarter, this amount has come to a positive value, well, minus 52 million dollars, which is the smallest quarterly figure since the second quarter of 2005. In the second quarter of the current year, the growth in foreign direct investment in Ukraine increased almost threefold compared to the first quarter of the current year, totalling $2.4 billion, reflecting a renewed confidence of foreign investors in Ukraine. The total amount of foreign investment is $38 billion. Despite the global financial crisis, the state budget is being implemented. In six months, the government budget has reached 101.1 billion dollars, including the General Fund, 72 billion dollars, or almost 100 percent of the reporting period. Despite the difficult economic situation, in January-June, the general budget figures of the General Fund were made according to the following sources: income tax of 101.2 per cent, taxes on goods produced in Ukraine of 104.7 per cent, excise duty on goods produced in Ukraine of 110.5 per cent, rent on natural gas produced in Ukraine of 176.4 per cent, import duty of 117.3 per cent, rent on full assets of 140 per cent, the cost of overstretching and overstretched. In addition, despite the shortening of the first year of imports of goods, the cost of the tax and import-dependent budgets has increased at a much higher rate than the corresponding, more faithful one, less than the decrease in imports. During the first half of the year, an expenditure portion of the government budget was made in the amount of 110.7 billion dollars. Despite these difficult macroeconomic conditions and the cuts in government budget revenues, the budget expenditure was higher than last year, the amount of expenditure increased by 7.6 per cent during the similar period of 2008. In the first half of the general government budget fund, 88 billion dollars were allocated, and in the first half of the year, the government budget was funded according to the monthly allocation schedule, a monthly expenditure bill of one twelfth of the annual amount. First, the funds were allocated for payroll, pensions, scholarships, and other social benefits. In general, the protected articles were targeted at 82 billion dollars during the reporting period, or 99 percent of the plan. In particular, the 100% funded expenditure on articles such as the salaries of budget workers, medicines, retreading materials, utility and energy, transfers to the Pension Fund, Chernobyl social payments, provision of separate categories of the population by technical means of rehabilitation, training of personnel by higher education institutions of the I-IV level of accreditation and fundamental and applied research. In the first half of the year, the government’s general budget expenditure was 85.3 billion dollars. Compared with the general fund’s reporting period plan, 96.8 percent was implemented, exceeding the same rate last year, when 95 percent was completed in six months. The cash social expenditure was equal to 46.2 billion dollars and more than 5.5 percent over the past period. Besides. i.e. the result of this work has enabled all budget workers to fully account for their salaries, pay vacations in front of summer vacations, and not to be in debt on social pay. In 2009, despite the difficult situation, the government continued to fund increased support for the care of a child after reaching the age of three. Now in 2009, that's 75 percent of the living minimum, at a time when last year it was 50 percent of the working person's living minimum. And it also increased the amount of care and care for children to 2 subsistence minimums last year, which was 1 living minimum. In addition, a quarterly increase in the minimum wage and minimum wage was introduced this year. According to the stated minimum pension rate, she made 544 bracelets on 1 April, 558.2 bracelets on 1 July, and 572.4 bracelets on 1 October. In addition, according to budgetary legislation, the government has taken measures to balance the pension fund’s rates and is provided on the basis of the 2009 budget rules with transfers, as well as loans to cover temporary cash breaks of the Pension Fund, which are linked to the seasonality of payments. And I'd also like to say, according to the government budget deficit of six months, he's made 10.6 billion dollars. Which is 34 percent of the approved annual figure. According to the General Fund of the State Budget, the deficit amounted to $14.1 billion against the projected deficit of 16.1 billion according to the budget. The public debt expenditure under the State budget amounted to 4.1 billion dollars, a total of 3.3 billion dollars, an amount of 2.1 billion dollars in domestic debt owed to the General Fund of the State Budget. Interest payments and principal debt repayments in the first half of the year and after nine months were fully effected without delay. With regard to the cost of bank capitalisation, it should be noted that this year, three banks, Exim Bank 1 billion dollars, Kiev 3, 6, Ukrgazbank – 3.1 and Rodovod Bank – 2.8 billion dollars. Moreover, this year came from the privatization of government property of 0.5 billion dollars everyone knows what is going on in this regard, so of course this is one of the shortcomings of the organization. It's a job. The remaining funds in the state treasury accounts accounted for 17.1 billion dollars on July 1 and increased by 6.9 during the year. Thus, the budget is implemented in a managed manner and every effort is being made by the government to ensure that expenditure is spent in the full year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m1.u78	Thank you, Anatoly Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, we sign up for a question to the deputy minister. Dear colleagues, we have recorded the question, we have one minute left before the end of the plenary. In this regard, we will be able to ask Anatoly Ivanovich at the morning meeting tomorrow, as well as to listen to the report of the head of the Court of Auditors on this matter. At this evening plenary session, I declare closed. The morning plenary meeting will begin tomorrow at 10 a.m.
