ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Please, Your Honor, prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:00:44]] They registered cards in the 422 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the day of the liberation of the city of Kiev. I'm asking you, let's welcome this date of cyans and everyone. [[Applause]] I now give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in plenary meetings on 5 November 2009. 17 questions on the agenda were considered: Nine laws and one decree had been passed, one bill had been returned to the Committee for Re-reading, and three bills had been rejected. Honorable National Deputies, in accordance with article 25 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, are given 30 minutes on Friday to make parliamentary inquiries. A request was received from the national deputies of Ukraine. Victor TURMANOVA to the President of Ukraine on the unlawful actions of the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine on the execution of a contract between a limited mining liability society and the structural units of the open stock company Mostobud I'll put it to a vote to support the request. Please vote. [[10:02:16]] For 201 Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:02:37]] For 226 Decision taken. To the President of Ukraine, Vladimir YAVORIYSKA, regarding the existence of dual citizenship in the city of Crimea, the residents, I apologize, Crimea, Sevastopol, and Zacarpathia, which is a grave violation of the Ukrainian Constitution, threatens Ukraine’s national security. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. Please, confess. [[10:03:13]] For-140. The decision is not taken. Jury CARMAZINA to the head of the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on matters of privatization, Prime Minister, Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Minister of Internal Affairs, Acting Head of the State Property Fund, Attorney-General on the verification of the violation of the constitutional rights of employees of the Lviv Bus Plant for work, on the failure to pay them for a long period of paid wages, on the illegal privatization, on the deliberate introduction of a factory to bankruptcy, on the illegal seizure and alienation of property by a foreign subsidiary of management, on the deliberate failure of individual persons to comply with the decisions of the court, which resulted in severe consequences, on the inaction of State authorities on the matter, on the application of appropriate measures for the renewal of the rights of workers and on the involvement of those responsible. Mr. Andrija PORTNOVA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science for the non-admission of restrictions on the rights of state higher education institutions and the need to leave the funds received for the training of student contractors in the management of these institutions. Valeria BARANOVA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the groundless cessation of the activities of the State Enterprise "Science Research and Project Institute "Skidniprogasocleaning" in Zaporozhye. Jury CARMAZINA to the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, Minister of the Interior, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Prosecutor-General of Ukraine for the examination of the grave violation of Ukrainian constitutional rights by Ukrainian seafarers, in particular the family of sailor Alexander Kartashova for the compensation of damage caused by the loss of his service duties, the violation by officials of the state company Skrkruing's terms of employment contracts, the failure by the captain of the ship CONCVER to comply with the requirements of the Code of Commercial Navigation of Ukraine and the rules of international law for part of the length of the working time of sailors and the establishment of the courts by crews, the failure of the captain of the ship CONCOVER to carry out criminal responsibility and the use of appropriate measures for the enforcement or enforcement of violations of the laws. Andrija SKILLY to the Prime Minister, acting as chairman of the Antimonopoly Committee for the establishment of economically unwarranted oil prices by Continium Galicina. [[Automobile refuelling stations under the trade mark "WH"]] Valery BEWZA to the Prime Minister regarding the situation that has arisen with the Open Shareholder Society "The Youth". Vassila GREECE to the Prime Minister, First Deputy Prime Minister, Deputy Minister of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Government Commissioner for Anti-Corruption Policy, Prosecutor-General of Ukraine on the possible involvement of Deputy Minister of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine Sergio Chebotar, Government Commissioner for Anti-Corruption Policy Yuri Sukhova and First Deputy Minister of the State Migration Service of Ukraine, Sergey of the Council for the Organization of Crime of the Society with Limited Responsibility "Resource-plus" and the State Enterprise of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine "Document". Victor TURMANOVA to the Prime Minister for Under-Sufficient Coal Receipts in 2009 and Non-compensation for Mines that are eligible for domestic fuel but live in a central heating house. Vladimir MATWEYEVA to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, regarding the abuse of office, service negligence, corruption and opposition of officials of the Ministry of Transport and Communications and the State Enterprise "Mikolayev Sea Trade Port" to the legitimate economic activities of other operators. Igora RIBAKOVA to the Prime Minister, the Head of the Supreme Court, the Prosecutor General, on the involvement of judges of the Primorski District Court of Odessa Larissa Chernyavska, Yuri Kushchenenko and others in criminal proceedings for the prior misjudgment of the state's material damage to 364 million people. That's right. Igor ŠAROV to the Prime Minister on the need to accelerate the pace of the implementation of pension reform in Ukraine. Caterina VASCHUK to Prime Minister, Lutsky City Head, on the recalculation of the budget for the Lutsk electric transport company for the transport of passenger credit categories and the premature decision to increase tariffs for the utility services of the Volina District Centre. Mr. Mikoli Sherschun to the Prime Minister on the proposals for the development of an agri-industrial complex submitted by the Directorate-General for Agricultural Development of the Equality District State Administration. OLEGO ZARUBINSKI to the Prime Minister for the non-admission of mass unpaid leave and part-time work for teaching staff during quarantine. Alexander DONI to the Prime Minister on the failure of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine to execute a court order in favour of the disabled person of World War II and the participants in hostilities. Helen BONDARENKO to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the cessation of illegal money struggles against juvenile parachutists and the restoration of the rule of law during national competitions against parachute sport. Helen BONDARENKO to the Prime Minister for information on the payment by the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Yuri Lucenko, of the income tax for receiving valuable gifts. Mr. Paul MUTCHANA to the Prime Minister for the financing of renovation works and for the establishment of museum exhibitions at the site of the Shevchenkov National Reserve in Canev. Paul TRUCHANA to the Prime Minister on the need for approval at the national level of the order of reproduction of Ukrainian own names by means of English and its rules, as well as ensuring that they are used correctly in the creation of domain names and in the representation of Ukraine on the World Wide Web, resolving the issue of the sending of millions of dollars each year from the sale of UA and KIJOV domains. U.S.A., the State Budget of Ukraine and the budget of Kiev instead of the budget of private entities. Paul SULKOVSKOVSKI to the Prime Minister for the preservation of the State-owned flat car repair plant. Paul SULKOVSKI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the refusal of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to provide State support for the cultivation of winter and spring crops in 2009. Roman ZABZALJECK to the Prime Minister for the improper execution of the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine by the State Committee on Land Resources concerning the use of response measures to normalize the work of the Mikolai District Administration of Land Resources. Roman ZAZALJECK to the Prime Minister regarding his dissatisfaction with the response of the Ukrainian Security Service to a parliamentary appeal regarding the possible violation of the current Ukrainian legislation by the Director of the State Enterprise Delta-Locman. SERGEANT GORDIENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Poltava District State Administration on the need for an immediate recalculation of the subsidy for the payment of the natural gas pipeline to the villages of Kulaginzki and Korovah in the region of Poltava, which was foreseen in the 2009 State budget, the inclusion of the gas pipeline in the operation, the non-admission of mass disease of people because the burning of their premises was under gas and they could not provide for a normal temperature regime in their dwellings. SERGEANT GORDIENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney-General for the Stopping of Abuses and the Legal Assessment of Millions of Damages to the State through the introduction of criminal schemes to minimize taxation and tax evasion on a particularly large scale. Valentina MATWEYEVA to the Minister of Health for the provision of necessary medical care to the resident of the Chernigiv region of Paul Kurintz. Valeria BEWZA to the Head of the Security Service, the Attorney General, regarding the situation in the village of the Brussels - style village of the Brúsíl district of Zitomir in connection with illegal activities in the field of land relations, and the abuse of office by the Brussels district government, which resulted in numerous violations of the constitutional rights of citizens in the area. Valeria Suščević to the minister of internal affairs on the use of measures to speed up the investigation of a criminal case committed in the event of bodily harm to Sergio Melnik. Vladimir BONDARENKA to the Minister of Internal Affairs, the head of the Security Service, the Attorney General’s Office for the improper investigation of a criminal case involving an assault on the life of a Ukrainian national deputy in connection with state and public activity. Vladimir YAVORIYSKE to the minister of foreign affairs of Ukraine regarding the occupation by the Russian military of the Black Sea fleet of Ukrainian towns of lighthouses of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, which are not allowed by Ukrainian citizens to their homes, where they have been living for 18 years. Gennady ZADIRKA to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the pressures of the Mikolai region television company Norma Center during the electoral process by the employees of the Ukrainian Security Service in the Mikolaiiv region and the illegal, in violation of numerous procedural law, in violation of their intentional criminal case for reasons contrary to the interests of the service. GREGORY ILLASHOWA to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on fraud involving citizens’ funds to finance the construction of a residential complex along the street. Borszagowska, 182B in Kiev, the illegality of the activities of the Open Shareholder Association of KyivReconstruction and the Commercial Bank of West Incombank and the inaction of public authorities. Ms. Dmitry REVI to the Minister of Health of Ukraine, Head of the National Tax Administration of Ukraine, for the preparation and granting of an additional fourth quarter along with the release of a fraction of the main ethyl rectified alcohol. YEUGENA KARJKOVA to Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine, for the burning of the architecture monument in the city of Odessa - Rusov. Mr. Mikoli KATERINCHUKA to the National Bank of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine, on the legality of the application of the Ukrainian National Bank Regulation of 11 October 2008 on additional measures for the activities of banks. Mr. Mikoli Sherschun to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the failure of officials of the Ministry of Ukraine to implement a decision on compensation for the costs of individual construction for the benefit of the citizen of Catherine Wednesday. OXANI BILOSIR to the Minister for Regional Development and Construction of Ukraine on the improper examination of the parliamentary request for the review of the actions of officials of the National Architectural Inspection in the Kyiv region, which contains signs of corruption. TO THE Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Oleg ZARUBINSK on the reality of extremism during the 2010 election campaign and their prejudice by law enforcement agencies. Ms. Alexander ŠEPELEVA to the Minister for Housing and Utilities of Ukraine on the urgent improvement of the heat supply situation to housing and facilities. Mr Oleg TYCHENKA to Minister of Fuel and Energy of Ukraine, Minister of Housing and Utilities of the Ukrainian Antimonopoly Committee, Head of the Kyiv District State Administration, for refusing to join the co-generation plant of society with limited responsibility "The Ukrainian Powders House" in the heat networks of the Joint Undertaking "Brothers" Alexia KOSTUSEVA to the head of the State Committee on Statistics on the inadequacy of statistical information posted on the State Committee of Statistics website, the real economic situation of the country, the restriction of access to operational information on the development of Ukraine's economy and the personal responsibility of officials of the State Committee of Statistics for such activities. Helen LUKASH to the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Attorney General, on falsifying a criminal case, refusing to accept allegations of committing a crime, as well as committing illegal acts by colleagues of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine regarding Alexander Kochergin. Helen LUKASH to the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Head of the Security Service, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the illegal actions of the officers of the Department of Investigation of the Glossiev District Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in Kiev and the staff of the Chief Security Service of Ukraine in Kiev and in the area of association with limited responsibility of Oppostal Businessgroup and its officials. Paul Žebryev, Minister of Agriculture Policy, Head of the State Committee on Land Resources for the purpose of ascertaining the existence of a lease agreement between the State Enterprise "The Scientific Research Agrocombination of the Desert Water" and the Sofia-Borstagov Region and the Musician Rural Councils of the Kyiv-Swiatoshin region of Kiev. GREENEVECH’S Sergei to the National Council of Ukraine on TV and radio talk about the continuation of the language license for the municipality’s “Renian Municipal Television” company. Ms Sergia MOSHAKA to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine, on the request of the Director of the Society with limited responsibility for the "Freight House of the European Guarantee" in connection with the illegal actions of the investigators of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in Kiev. RUCA’S Jury to the Head of the State Committee on Land Resources for the Protection of the Interests of the Bareziv High Professional School of the Odessa National Technical University. Mr Juriya TREUGUBOVA to the Minister of Interior, Attorney General of Ukraine, on the legality of making changes to the Single State Register of Enterprises and Organizations of Ukraine regarding the limited liability of Intertrade Groups. Jaroslav SUCHI to the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine on the practice of dealing with Ukraine’s Supreme Court cases and making decisions that have a devastating effect on Ukraine’s electricity sector. Mr. Mikoli Tomenka and Ms. Karmazin to the Head of the State Committee on Technical Regulation and Consumer Policy, Head of the National Expert Commission on Social Moral Protection on violations of the law on advertising and the protection of social morality in connection with the systematic publication of notices on the provision of private services and other pornographic materials. VADIM KLAZNIZENK to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the non-application of illegal detention, beating, torture and persecution by Ukrainian police officers Valery Plachotnuk and Oleg Plachotnuk. Valérie BARANOVA to the prosecutor of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea for violations of the rights of economic operators in the field of external advertising in Simferopol of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Vassil KRAVČUKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of the abuse of power, the exceedance of authority by the city’s head, Igor Kondratuk, of the Isiaslav City Council of Hmeljna District. Vassila KRAVČUKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of the legality of the actions carried out by the employees of the Department of State Executive Services of the Biological Region of the Hmelnicke District. Vasil Hara to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal interference of the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine with the internal activities of the Federation of Trade Unions of Ukraine through the issuance of illegal documents and the pressure on the heads of member organizations. Valérie DEMANCHUK Victoria DEMJANČUK - to the Attorney General about the provision of information by the Attorney General of Ukraine on the investigation of the Elita-Centre affair with the Civil Protection Centre. Vladimir BONDARENKA to the Attorney-General on the groundless retrial of criminal cases involving officials of the collective agriculture company "Agrofirma "Rubezivska" by the Prosecutor's Office of the Kyiv Region and the deliberate delay in their investigation. Ms. Vladimir PILIPEN to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the verification of expenditure by the head of the Kyiv District Administrative Court, Oleg Bachun, totalling more than 1 million dollars. It's a private fund. Gennady ZADIRKA to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the improper organization of prosecutorial supervision and response by the prosecutor of the Mikolai District of Mikola Stoyanov on the issue of unlawful granting 16.5 ha of land to the Koblevo Recreation Zone, the construction of buildings within the coastal zone and the criminal signing of forest leases at a total area of 131 hectares. John STATION to the Attorney General on the wrong actions of a group of young people to protest former gulag political prisoners during the U.S. tour of Ukraine in the heart of Ternopil. Michael PAPIJEVA to the Attorney General for the elimination of gross violations of the citizens ’ rights to recalculate their pension and to file a criminal case against those responsible. Constantine BONDEREVA to the Attorney General on the opposition of legal legal activity and the removal of the Council of Judges of Ukraine from responding and the actual concealment of the corruption of the Chief of the Kyiv District Administrative Court for the use of private jets for personal recreation totalling over a million dollars. Mr. Alexander DONI to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the improper treatment of the prosecutor of the Kharkiv area of the MP's request for a violation of the law by private notary Rimma Zinchenko. Mr. Alexander EFREMOVA to the Attorney-General on the rightfulness of the presence of the Ukrainian national deputy, Mr. Moskal Hennady Hennadiyovich, as Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Mr. Ruslan KNEZVIĆA to the Attorney General about the unsatisfactory consideration of the MP’s appeal. Sergia CRAPOVA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the situation surrounding the privatization of the Alexander Matrosov Children’s Health Camp in Orlovščina, Novomoskov district of Dnipropetrovsk. Jaroslav JJDJIKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of violations by the Kyivpastrs utility for the purchase of passenger trams. Michael PAPIJEVA and Yuri LITHUNA to the Attorney-General on the re-examination of the parliamentary request for gross violations of legislation in the field of land management, financial abuse and other offences committed in the city of Butch Kyiv region with the knowledge and support of the mayor of Anatolia Fedoruka, taking into account the conclusions of an independent legal expertise. Andrija PAVLOWS, head of the Kiev City State Administration, on urgent measures to eliminate the emergency situation and the threat of the destruction of House No. 70 on the street of the Irpin Svetoshin district of Kiev. Vladimir DANILENKA to the Head of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, heads of district, Kyiv and Sevastopol City Councils on the issue of the need to protect the population from junk food and advertising, in this regard, a region free of genetically modified organisms. [[GMO]] Alexander ŠEPELEVA to the city of Kiev to solve the problem of building subway stations in the direction of the Teremka microregion. Thus, honourable members of the people, 138 requests were made, including one request addressed to the President of Ukraine. The Supreme Council of Ukraine did not support Vladimir Yavorowski’s request. I will, in accordance with the established tradition that has been proposed to refer to the President of Ukraine, put to the vote, honourable colleagues, and re-examine this request. Is there no objection? I am voting for support for the request of Ukrainian national deputy Vladimir Yavorowski to the President of Ukraine for the existence of dual citizenship in the people of Crimea, Sevastopol and Zacarpathia, which is a grave violation of the Constitution of Ukraine and threatens the national security of Ukraine. Please vote. [[10:24:53]] For 213 Request supported. Now, pay attention! - I am voting for the request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[10:25:19]] For 238. Decision taken. Dear National Deputies! What's the procedure? From what? Please, let's do it this way, dear colleagues. In a minute, please. Andrew Parubius, then who is it? Pisarenko, we're still going. I'll see.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u2	Parisi Andriy, “For Ukraine! ” I'd like to read out the minutes of the "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" meeting. So the order of the day. First. About the resignation of the head of the MP's faction. They're listening. Members of the Andriy Volodymyrovich People's Faction on the disadvantages of the work of the deputy faction, such as ignoring the demands of the majority of the people's deputies of the faction on the urgent resolution of urgent matters of State importance, as well as on the reconciliation of members of the parliamentary faction and head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on matters of fuel and energy, nuclear policy and nuclear security, contrary to article 82(6) of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and in this connection with the need for a change in the head of the deputate faction. It's decided. Call off Martinenko Mikola Volodymyrovich, head of the deputy faction. Vote. For 38. Against 0. Hold on to 0. The decision is taken. Authorize the Ukrainian National Deputy to provide appropriate materials to the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u3	Okay. Ten seconds. Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u4	About the change in the leadership of the deputy faction "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense." Addition. List of registrations for voting of Ukrainian national deputies. Authorized by the faction "Our Ukraine People's Self-Defense" by the Ukrainian National Deputy of Paris A.V. Please read the document from the rostrum of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u5	Andrew Pisarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u6	Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u7	Oh, I'm sorry, Valery Pisarenko, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u8	Dear colleagues, let us read the Rules. If there is a faction’s decision, go to the office and have them advertised in accordance with the Rules. Dear colleagues, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, at our evening meeting yesterday, we decided to ask the first question today, Bill 3062, to include it in the agenda, to consider it by voting. I ask now to put to the vote the question of inclusion in the agenda and voting with the first question of bill 3062.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u9	What kind of bill is that?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u10	It's about FatF. And if the hall decides, we'll look at it first. I remind you that this is a matter of fulfilling our obligations to FatF. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u11	"Block of Lithuania" faction, who's it going to be? No speakers? None. Who's going to do the show? Alexander Efraemov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u12	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! First of all, I would like to hear your point of view, Vladimir Mihajlovich, on the statement made by the faction “Our Ukraine”, because you forwarded the documents to us committee leaders a few days ago. Why we don't do it according to procedure. That's the first one. And the second question I wanted to take the floor for. I think that the most serious issue that we must consider today in the Supreme Council is the 2009 budget changes and the 2010 budget bill. I ask you to put to the vote a priority consideration of these issues now in the Chamber. Because, in our view, there are no more important bills today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u13	There's no one from the Communist faction? All, then, respected colleagues exchanged their thoughts. Anatoly Matvienko, for what? Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u14	Ukrainian Republican Party "The Council", "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" Block. Vladimir Mikhailovich and distinguished fellow national MPs! I'd like to inform you. And I am personally deeply offended by any attempt to provoke and lower the faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" to nothing. I don't think provocateurs have the right to do that, and it hurts me personally. I want to inform you that our block's policy was to form a working group, which included me, which examined all of these 38 signatures and identified more than 10 points of falsification of this document. It is, it is a disgrace. And this disgrace has no one's right to rule. What's more, three numbers were called the faction of this initiative. Each MP was warned. Unfortunately, none of these 30s or, more faithfully, two men with 38 came, no vote. I beg you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, there are no provocations. It has to be done absolutely.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u15	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u16	A detailed analysis of this document is to be carried out, and only then can the appropriate announcements be made. I'm not against democratic change, but it has to be a democratic change.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u17	Thank you. Dear colleagues! We exchanged thoughts. Please, I'm asking you to calm down. And let's think about it this way. Do not involve the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the decomposition inside the faction. That's the first one. The other one. When I received a set of protocols with the signatures of the National Deputies, I sent this document to the well-known committee leaders, to the head of the committee, to the deputy head of the Supreme Council, and to the faction. Then I received an address from the second part of the faction. I also directed him to the people I told him about. At the same time, dear colleagues, I want you to listen. At the same time, honourable colleagues, if a document is registered today, it will come and it will be verified that everything is in order, we will act in an orderly manner. But I'm asking you, now is not the time to, when something is wrong, that we should be working on it. Because I was brought with me a protocol, including that the faction sat down, considered the matter, and left everything unchanged. But it's written that 20 MPs were involved, of them. Listen to what I'm saying. There were 20 deputies, of whom 18 were in favour, two were in custody and handed over the document. If you're going to give the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine a meeting of group protocols in your factions, then excuse me, I have nothing to do with reading your documents. If the document is accepted, as prepared in its proper order, there will be an appropriate action. We'll wait for that document to come up. Now let's get to the bottom of this, and you can figure out who you're going to be. [[B in m in s a l in]] May I have your attention, please? Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? May I have your attention, please? Regarding Valerius Pisarenko and Alexander Efraemov’s proposal to consider the relevant bills. I'll put this proposal to the vote. To your knowledge, at the Conciliation Council on Monday, we talked about the need to adopt a law, more specifically, the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine not to have negative effects on Ukraine, so that it would not be included in the list of countries for which a special procedure for tracking banking activities would be included in the blacklist of the relevant international organization. We made that decision with you. So I'm going to put this proposal to a vote. Just as you and I have accepted a proposal on when the President of Ukraine's Law on Making Changes to the State Budget will come forward, we will also consider it. But to do so. May I have your attention, please? I'm telling you the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So in this order, I'm going to put a proposal to the vote so that, in the first place, we can now consider the relevant bills. Andrew Kozemyakin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u18	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, that's it. That I was also present at the Conciliation Council, where it was decided that this bill on budget additions should be passed by the committee first. We agreed to work under the Rules. So please don't violate the rules, let him go to the committee, the committee will look at it, and then we'll vote it out and put it into the agenda. Please, we took a break yesterday after considering the Housing Codex. Please continue it and then ask questions about the law on. at FATF – 3062. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u19	Alexander Pecklesenko and we'll decide what to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u20	Dear colleagues, in torment, the established coalition, now registered, has been more dead than alive since the first day. And we have repeatedly warned about this. Today, this fact is confirmed with regard to the budgetary process. In the Committee on Budgets, the majority is “for” the non-existent majority. It sabotages the meeting of the budgetary committee. We cannot stay out of the budget process, we need the only opportunity to take this issue to the sessional room. Only a viable majority, constructive and responsible, can decide the fate of the budget. I therefore insist, on behalf of the faction, that all the bills relating to the budget and the budgetary process be introduced.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u21	Adam Martinyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u22	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I confirm the words of the Head of the Supreme Council, and once again I remind you that indeed all faction leaders on Monday at the Conciliation Council have come to the conclusion that if the President's proposal comes about how to implement the Law on Social Standards, we will be obliged to consider it immediately. For look at this: Today, November 6th, you and I have adopted a law that has already become law and is signed that as of November 1, new social standards have been in force since November 1st! Today's the 6th. There is no law amending the State Budget Act, which means the government is now ignoring the law. Then we must help the government to comply with this law, and it is imperative that the Law amending the Law on State Budget be considered today in order to comply with the law on social standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u23	Oleg Lazko. And we'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u24	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! And remember when we voted on this law when you voted on it in a populist way, unless we warned you that this law would not work, because in order for it to work, changes to the budget would have to be made immediately and calculated and so on. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, about sabotage by our political power of the work of the Committee of Budgets, which was mentioned here by our distinguished colleague, is not true, because the representatives of the Party of Regions do not go to the Committee of Budgets either. People are taken care of in the hall, and they do not go to the committee. Vladimir Mikhailovich, there is a Supreme Council regulation, let's follow it. We stopped at the Housing Code yesterday, which, in violation of the Rules, tried to follow a reduced procedure, today let's continue its consideration, and let's stick to the agreements reached at the Conciliation Council. You don't have to break the Supreme Council. Not according to the classic of parliamentaryism.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u25	Stanislaw Arzeviteen. And we'll make decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u26	Stanislav Arjewitin, group “For Ukraine!” Ladies and gentlemen, I'm talking about a bill on financial monitoring. I am. I want to see a report from the FAT Control Group on international cooperation, and I'm showing you a list of where our country -- Ukraine -- is almost on the blacklist. This is where we've already identified our place. So please, let's take a look at the bill today, because on November 9th, there's a group coming to the final conclusion. All of our customers who have international relations will have very big problems if we don't settle these issues today. So please, let's put to the vote a bill on funding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? Let's be clear about what's going on in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, there's a conscious process of stallion, so that we don't look at the budget of Ukraine, the State Budget for 2010. That's true. I would ask for the largest two factions: The regional parties and the Butt parties are not to block or block the budget committee meetings. [[Calm down, I know what I'm saying! Don't raise your hands!]] I can give you the data that are coming to the Committee on Budgets, fully representing the two factions: the Communist factions and the Lithuanian Block. Then you send one observer, and you block the issue. There is no need for one budget and there is no need for another budget. [[You listen to what I'm saying!]] So I propose and give the commission to the committee heads, when there was no committee meeting, don't put eight for the work of the national deputies. Because if there's no record of budget committee meetings, there's no pay in the days when the Committees are supposed to meet, there's not going to be any pay. You don't like it. You'll make another decision. The Committee on Budgets is deliberately blocking. That won't happen. Now let's move on. Dear colleagues, regarding the populist zeal. You stop talking about populist zeal, because when you had to make a decision, you agreed on a minimum wage, and a living minimum of three times 400 votes. So let's stop talking about populism and make the decisions that people need. And finally the third, dear colleagues. We made decisions at the Conciliation Council, and let us not twist the decisions we made. We have made this decision: a law that deals with financial control of Ukraine once this is a project -- we will consider it, and I will put it to a vote after the last question has been considered, namely: The Housing Code Act -- we put it under review. And the second. You and I have made a decision: as soon as a law comes from the President concerning the change to the 2009 State Budget, we will put it to a vote, and there are arguments, proposals, and the Supreme Council must make the right decision. So everyone calm down and get ready to vote. Calm down! We have not yet completed our consideration of the matter. Once again, I want to say that we don't need to use the tactics of delaying the work of the Supreme Council. Let's calm down. All of it. I'm voting first for Valery Pisarenko's proposal that after the project is completed. Consider the draft Ukrainian Housing Code, consider draft law, registration number 3062. Please vote. [[10:42:33]] For 238. Decision taken. The second sentence is that after this issue, the draft Act amending the Ukraine Act on the 2009 State Budget of Ukraine should be considered. Registration number 5297. [[10:43:07]] For 251 Decision taken. [[Applause]] On demand of two factions: the BUT factions and the "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear colleagues, we agreed. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm asking you, but I'm going through the Rules so that I don't get blamed, and you and I have decided that we're considering these two laws, that the Conciliation Council was. Now, the 2010 budget issue, next plenary week, we're going to look at it. If the committee doesn't come together, I'll have the Apparatus generalize all the proposals, make the right decision, and the apparatus will be working for the Ukrainian people's deputies and stop funding, all of it. At the request of two factions: the BUT factions and the "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" Block, I announce a 30-minute recess for consultations. Break until 11 o'clock, 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u28	Dear colleagues, please take up your jobs. Break time is over. We have a large meeting schedule today, and we have added two more questions to consider today. On the basis of these questions. First of all, from those taking a break, please, Tarasjuk Boris Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u29	Boris Tarasyuk, National Movement of Ukraine, faction of "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense". Dear National Deputies! I was assigned to conduct a police investigation into the so-called protocol, called, regarding the circumstances of the document's compilation and registration, by the militia of the block and the faction of our Ukrainian People's Self-Defense. Let me tell you that the task force conducted a service investigation and informed the block's policy on the results of its work. As a result of this work, the working group consists of two acts that are composed and signed properly. As a result of these acts, I want to inform you of only some of the ten violations that the working group has detected. We have found, in particular, that there are only eight factions in the document who have clearly spoken in exchange for the faction’s head. We've come to the conclusion that this document is forged, it doesn't have the necessary attributes, it's not signed by a faction-authorized person, but I'll remind you that such persons are the heads of the faction and its four deputies, even though it seems to be the names of the two deputies who are also the deputy heads of the faction. I'll read you out of our act. All of the above may indicate that the document being examined is being falsified. In particular, it may be noted that the meeting of the 23rd parliamentary faction is set out in the document. 10 this year, with the stated agenda, has never happened. Thus, it is not known that according to article 366 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, this article on forgeries, is criminalized. These two acts were transmitted to the Head of the Supreme Council by means of an accompanying letter. What I'm saying is that we have drawn the attention of the Head of the Supreme Council and the Secretary of the Supreme Council to the fact that the registration of the so-called protocol has been carried out improperly and contrary to the Order of Procedure for Documents in the Supreme Council. We've noticed that this document doesn't have one.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u30	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u31	There is no reason to be registered as the entry document of the Supreme Council. We believe that if most factions feel that it is necessary to change their heads, let them properly draw up this protocol and the document of such a decision, and then let them transmit it properly to the Supreme Council for consideration. I would like to point out once again that these actions are intended to further consolidate the divide that exists in the faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". These are unworthy acts especially during such a harsh and political time and during an epidemiological crisis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u32	Please proceed with the procedure for the further work of Efraem Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u33	First of all, dear colleagues, we're glad you've come to your senses, and we're glad you're doing well. Hopefully, this will help us to work in the hall in a consolidated manner. Thank you. And, Alexander Vladimirović, on the job. Given that we have already had a break and we have exhausted it, there is a proposal to vote without interruption and before the two issues that we have voted on today during the morning meeting begin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u34	Dear colleagues! We've included two questions in the agenda today. And there's an offer, I realized that these two are involved this morning, that until we consider getting the job done today, no sooner than these two questions will be considered. Is that an offer? The proposal made by the People’s Deputy Ephraim is put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:24:27]] For 226 Decision taken. We will work until the questions are addressed: 3062 and we will consider the mandatory draft Law on Change to the State Budget this year is registration number 5297. [[We will consider today as a matter of fact.]] We are now going back to the draft Housing Codex. I would like to invite the head of the Committee of Fishery Vladimir Vasilovich to the rostrum. Members of parliament are requested to sign up for a question. Questions to the head of the committee. The report took place yesterday. Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u35	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, Party of Regions, town of Zaporozhye Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, I asked him a question yesterday when the author of this bill came from a group of co-authors, Valery Alexiyovich Baranov, and I want to ask you this question. The thing is, it's housing-communal. The housing code of the sixth year is halted by purely political reasons, not by legislative reasons. Because there are so many speculations around the idea that this Housing Codex will allow people to be thrown out into the street, made homeless, made unhappy, and so forth. Please tell us how and how the Housing Code deals with housing, housing, and housing. Is there such a standard? And the second question. What is the normal problem with the dormitories? This is an extremely painful subject for us today, in Ukraine, because of the fact that state housing is stopped in construction, people live in hostels, and there are a number of problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u36	Thank you. Deputies, the one who has read the draft Housing Code, will not find any articles that will be directed against our people and that will be illegally displaced in some way. Therefore, if we consider all of the matters of resettlement, there are various cases of evictions. It's from an emergency shelter, from a big apartment, from a dormitory, etc., etc. It's all set up there. However, I would like, after we have taken the draft as a basis for the deputies to make their proposals that we might consider. There are 17 people on the committee today. They are represented by all the factions that are in the Supreme Council. We are.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u37	Please turn on the microphone of the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u38	Seven codes, which have been under review for 10 years now, the Code, which has been submitted by the current Government, the deputies and the Committee, has submitted to you and requests the draft Code to be adopted as a basis for taking all proposals and comments into account. In addition, we have sent this code to all regions, local governments, held various hearings here in Kiev, including with foreign organizations, and we are talking about the need for the Supreme Council to be determined whether we will accept it or not. To date, I think this issue is too politicized.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u39	Lyszko Oleg Valeriyovich. He gives the word Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u40	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Thank you very much, Oleg Valeriyovich, to you. I'd like to ask you a question like that. Don't you think, as head of the committee, on yesterday's questions, on yesterday's discussion, of the result that to define the concept of the law, and the first reading is the concept of the law and to really connect in the room, because, for example, I can't vote in favour of today's edition of article 171 as a concept. I mean the removal of housing that is owned by citizens and legal persons to meet social needs. I can clearly see that there is a contradiction to article 41 of the Constitution, and this is followed by the removal of the land, although the name is the removal of housing and the removal of land in relation to social necessity, this is paragraph 1. Then paragraph 2 “in connection with the introduction of houses, construction of other state and municipal property”, then a completely absurd point.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u41	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u42	I think you're perfect.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u43	I'm sorry. Do you not think that these points and the first, the second, the fifth, these points should be deleted and. or delete the entire article now. Because otherwise, if it's a first-reading concept, then there's a big danger that it's going to be the norm of the law. This means that this is an attack on the rights of citizens. I have a huge claim to another article, article 69. I also believe that it should be removed. Well, by deleting two articles, you're predicting this. And then you're going to have to put it in order. Just don't remove the land, just remove the other things. Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich, and thank you for your opportunity.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u44	Thank you. I can fully agree with you that certain articles need to be finalized today. We considered that the Committee had discussed these articles and I am reporting today on the Committee's decision. As far as I'm concerned, let's say it's my personal opinion. Yeah, it either needs to be clarified what it is, or it can be ruled out to date. I'm okay with those options.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u45	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Have a seat, please. Let's sign up for a discussion. Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u46	Dear colleagues, among the debts to society and before our electorates, the Supreme Council can now write in a sad passage: the Labour Code, we live under the Labour Code, December 1971; the poverty eradication strategies -- since 2000, no bill to fill the strategy has been introduced; the concept of reforming the pay system; the introduction of the second, third, pension reform; the only social contribution; the social dialogue; the fifth, the general compulsory social and health insurance; and the sixth year, we walk around the Housing Code. The point is that today, the immobility and chaoticity of making decisions become dominant in the work of all branches of government, both legislative and executive. And it won't do any good. I feel like we're only living for a day. And there are so many political and so many political speculations around the Housing Code there's not around any legislative act and there's never been around the legislative acts of others that we've been looking at here. We need to adopt a code in the first reading and take it as a basis, at least, in order to involve the public at large, so that with the involvement of a wide range of public organizations, we can work on it and balance the interests of citizens, housing and utilities and the state. Colleagues, it's in the area of municipal agriculture that the most obvious elements of civil society are right here, where people themselves are organized long ago, right here, when people are organized themselves, to give back to those who are either grounded on their land or to their normal vitality. The Code gives us legislative guarantees for the work and development of such real civil society and self-government. The code will give people the sense of the landlord and owner of their dwellings lost in the end. Well, remember why you can light buttons in elevators, why doesn't the same man do that in his apartment? Why is one appearance in the driveway and another in the armored door? Who's not paying today? That's a big topic. But look who's going to people's receptions. Who has a major district, what people are telling us, and look, because this guy who's driving on a Mercedes, he hasn't paid for a fourth year, and he won't pay, because he knows no one's going to make any claims to him. And it's not that, and it's not about evicting or evicting, the Housing Code clearly describes the purchase order, getting housing, which category, how it's going to get this housing. In the end, the answer to an extremely painful question is providing young people with housing. That's what's on the agenda right now is extremely sharp. And the main thing, the Housing Code, finally, defines clearly the sources on which the sources will be developed and adopted by these acts.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u47	Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u48	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! Today, on the eve of the anniversary of the Great October Socialist Revolution, we can be pleased to note that the glory of the god who is still in operation is the Housing Codex created in Soviet times. Trouble is different. That the State does not implement the Housing Code, which is the law. The trouble is that the state today, the power of today, does not comply with the relevant provisions of the Constitution, which guarantee the right of every citizen to receive housing. I'd like to ask the initiators of the Housing Code, and here's the right one, it's being reviewed more than once, and the different authors were. But no matter who the author is under one project or another, and I think for about the last 10 years it's about the 20th or 30th project, it's the same. Authors change, but the essence of the Housing Code does not change. Your colleague Karmazin has already pointed to 171 articles. I want to look at similar articles, where it's about so-called, so-called reconstruction of old residential areas. You will recall how in earlier times the government has struggled to endure half of Kiev. They were willing to put up with all the neighborhoods of Kiev, to promise people sweet things, to create what we have with those who build housing at the expense of citizens, about that. And in an empty area of ruined housing that can still be used, build something that brings fabulous profits. Fortunately, including the Supreme Council, this was not an option. Today, if we are to adopt this housing code with you, the law will establish the right to tolerate everyone and everything, to transfer, to move, to demand or to put, to say that it is a social need. Do we want to give this to people? I doubt that my colleague, who is always on the watch for people’s interests, wants to harm them today. This does not correspond to the substance and therefore to the committee he represents. I'm gonna say it again and again. The housing code is, it's active, it just needs to be done, and it doesn't need to be made up of new schemes at the expense of the Housing Code. Because this, once again, I would like you to read carefully, this is another new income for the different trusts, the firms of those who know how to make money on this. I ask not to support such an anti-national Housing Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u49	Lyszko Oleg Valeriyovich. Bondarenko Volodymir Dmitrovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u50	Vladimir Bondarenko, BUT. , Reforms and Orders. The Housing Code is a complex set of financial and economic, technical, social and legal problems. That's why he's going through so hard. And all these years, we've been stumbling on articles that don't allow us to accept this document as a whole. I want to say that the codex proposed today has some gaps and must be closed in some way. But notice, and in the years of Soviet power, and today we're dividing the population into two parts: the village itself is building its own housing, it's keeping it for itself, and no one, ever from the state, has helped to burn it practically, not to repair it, not to build it; and the other part of the population is the urban population that's waiting for it, and most of the time it's getting housing, it's true, a lot of people haven't been waiting. However, this codex does not take away this inequality. We have a rural population left behind, and we have a local population that has some advantages. The other one. This code does not solve the technical problems of building operations when the entire house is shut down because of the failure of one or two users of the services provided. In the whole world today, there are technical conditions for shutting down individual taxpayers, not whole houses, as we do today. Third. Legal problem. We don't have direct agreements between a citizen and a service provider. There's a so-called "Jack" that doesn't decide anything, but I can't go to court because I'm having an affair with Jack. But he is not a provider of services. And those who are the givers are behind Jack. So if the problem is not removed and direct contracts between citizens and service providers are not met, I think it's going to be bad because. Well, that would discriminate against those people who pay honestly. I also point out that today we also have a number of issues with the introduction of this codex, particularly since January 1. There are problems that today are related to the fact that individual housing and individual citizens who live, they just have dozens of rooms, and there are no relationships that govern their employment in this code. But, nevertheless, I don't want to complain today about not accepting it. I think we should take it anyway, and put into it the positions that were made by the Cabinet of Ministers -- the 560th decree that did provide tariffs for each house, because there's a variety of services for every house. And if everyone under the same ridge combs as today, in a series of houses, it is wrong because there are large courtyards with the same house of the same series, and there are small, with very different conditions. So all of this will have to be taken into account. And I'd like to say that, in general, by supporting this document, I see a lot of problems in this document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u51	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u52	Yuri Carmazin. Dear national MPs, different thoughts: from the phrases that were spoken, not accepted at all, to those who say that this is an important step forward. I can see that, along with these steps, we made and took the mistakes we were making. These mistakes are practically out of the question. And that's why I'm going to have to make this proposal: first, to accept this code except for a few articles, I've already talked about them today, and yesterday, it's 171, it's 69. That's absolutely true. To remake other articles and to ensure the implementation provided for in article 47, part 2, of the Constitution, of the responsibility of the State and of local self - government authorities to provide citizens in need of social protection with housing for their salaries. In this regard, I stress that the government, which has been so busy here all the time, has put in place a project to provide citizens with affordable housing. This is 4124. Put it right here and write that this is a government proposal, because it's registered, it's, it's perfectly normal. And there. It's an anti-crisis situation, and they'll serve the cause. so that they don't be homeless people. Why I am insisting on the deletion of article 171. If there is no exclusion, for example, I will not vote and I do not advise my colleagues to do so because there are rules that my Communist colleagues might call “the code of oligarchial capitalism” because it is such a cool oligarchic one, because to ask the question that if anyone wants to take the land, it will be justified by social necessity. Take away the land! And it's not the Earth Code, it's supposed to be, it's not random, it's not random, it's about redistribution. About the redistribution in Kiev, about the redistribution in Odessa. There are plans for the city now, and people today are surprised and say: Don't let that happen. I won't allow it. If the committee doesn't delete these articles now, we won't vote for these things. Then there is the question that, in response to other legislative needs, housing can be taken away, and the land can be taken away. What are “others ”? Did one of the oligarchs want to build something there and demolish the house that was standing there? That's what you have to throw away. Then what. I'm just what's written here. In particular, I would like to point out that the code should improve the situation that is, including with the conclusion of contracts for long-term or fixed-term contracts. There.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u53	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. People’s MPs, Pavlovsky, pass on the right to speak to national deputy Bodnar Olga Borisovni. Please have nine minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u54	Thank you. Olza Bodnar, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear colleagues, let's look at the code calmly, in balance, without political subtexts. This Housing Codex is a matter of great concern to all citizens of Ukraine. Is it socially adapted? Will it improve the situation of housing, housing, and housing? No, it's not. Is it antisocial, or is it antisocial? Yes, there is. And it's very, very dangerous. What Part 1 of Article 47 of the Constitution tells us: It says that all of us are guaranteed the right to housing, decent housing, and living conditions. What does the project offer? It does not provide for partial compensation for citizens' rents or loans or the granting of flat rents — nothing. Yes, what could solve this problem? Yes, the government of Tymoshenko, by the way, offered this option – these are the so-called "breeds" themselves, the settlement of the "breeds". But as the government suggested to resettle the “breaths”: it did not transfer them to the social fund, but rather gave them a better housing with a larger square with quality housing. Little is supported, unfortunately, by Timoshenko's very progressive idea of a 4 percent loan for this apartment. How does this project provide for housing? Similarly, there will be queues that are now available and that every citizen has the right to become one. How will they be held back? It's an off-line, front-line, social, apartment. Social housing. First of all, second of all, that's very good, and that's what's left of the old traditions. We have no right to violate article 21 of the Constitution, let it be. I'm asking you, where did the citizens who needed a separate residence go, according to their medical statements? They're gone. What Is Social Housing? Dear colleagues, social housing is the kind of housing that will be available to those who will be on a housing account with low material assets that cannot buy a separate apartment and will be provided with social housing. This apartment will not be able to be privatized or passed on as an inheritance. Then we go to the bill. According to part five of article 31 of the project, housing from the state and municipal housing funds of general purpose is given to persons within the limits of the general area. Today, this is within housing standards, not the total area. Accordingly, we are in violation of article 21 of the Constitution of Ukraine. Will there be evictions through the adoption of this codex? Yes, they will. You will be evicted from social housing without being given a separate home. You'll be evicted from your mortgage home and given no other accommodation. You will be evicted for social reasons, and you will not be compensated for within their commercial value. You'll also be evicted from your dormitory, your honorary colleagues, so by article 92 of the Social Assignment Housing Fund, you'll be evicted. According to article 91, those who do not have to be privatized. And one more thing I want to say is that social housing will also be covered by garden buildings. So someone will have to live in a large apartment building and someone else will have to live in a remote area. So I firmly oppose supporting this bill in this way, it's a very dangerous bill if we react in this way. Do not forget, please, the great and great fates of our people are behind this. And people are not prepared in any way to see the state making their existing rights worse. I will no longer talk about what the project requires substantial regulatory technical adjustment. If only this was a problem, it could be accepted as a concept, but under the Rules we have to adopt a law that responds conceptually to questions as to how they can improve the situation. Here I fully agree with Adam Ivanovich, today's code, which he would not be weak and outdated, because we are already living in another society, with other rules of the game, but he is now somehow giving this home to the people who need it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u55	Thank you. I invite Paul Zebrovsky, the faction of "Our Ukrainian People's Self-Defense." Prepare Yatsubi.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u56	Dear colleagues, I don't know in Ukraine any man who likes today's housing and utilities situation in Ukraine. Here it is called for that the cool Housing-Communal Code should only be implemented. It can't be done. We're in the market economy today. Either we need to go back to the socialist economy of the system, or we need to bring, including the Housing Codex, into reality that is today in Ukraine's space. Of course, there are enough gaps in this Housing Code and not everything can be maintained in general, but I am convinced that no one today is asking that this Housing Code be accepted as a law. Today is the first reading. You know, there's a lot of colleagues here talking about the reception of citizens. I also remember, one comes to the reception and says: “Paul has failed, the wallpaper has fallen off.” I say: “Did you not try to kill the board and tape the wallpaper?” No, he waits for the chief of JECQ to do it to him. I'm sorry, there's got to be people's responsibility. I'm telling him, my 85-year-old mom, she gets up and beats the house she has, and nothing bad ever happens to her. That is, we allocate people to those who have access to some good and those who have to pay for everything themselves. I am convinced that the Housing Code, which is being proposed today, settles enough questions. It corresponds to reality in the economy of Ukraine. And we can talk about non-fulfilment by these, by another government, missed governments that were the Housing Code, but let's be honest: if we can, please meet the basics of health legislation, the basics of education, the basis of national security, the Housing Code and all the other ones that are, there would be no GDP. Not that the budget, the gross domestic product, would be enough to enforce those laws. Clearly, this can result in a populist promise of benefits. But there is no reality behind populism. And it's not going to make people feel better living in apartments and keeping the housing fund they live in today. As a result, respectable colleagues, you cannot stand one foot in socialism, an owl, and a second foot in the market economy. It's a spaghetti that you can't climb from. That's why I urge everyone in the first reading to vote in favour of the Housing Code Act, to seriously cooperate with those who are not blah-blah-blah-blah-lah-lah-lah-lah-lah-lah-lah-lah-lah-lah-lah-lah-lah-lah-lah-lah-lah-lah-lah-lah-lah-lah-lah-lah-lah-lah-lah-lah-lah-lah-lah-lah-lah-lah-lah-lah-lah-lah-lah-lah-lah-lah-lah-lah-lah-lah-lah-lah-lah-lah-lah-lah-lah-lah-lah-lah-lah-lah-lah-la-lah-la-la-la-la-la-la-la-la-la-la-la-la-la-la-la-la-la-la-la-la-la-la-la-la-la-la-la-la questions issues issues issues issues issues issues issues issues issues issues that which is a fair objection from our fellow deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u57	Thank you. I invite Vladimir Yatsubu, faction of the Party of the Regions. Prepare Yuri the Merchant. Yes, yes, please. We're about to come to those I've announced.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u58	Ladies and gentlemen of the national council, the honorable Presidium, the distinguished people who are now in line in Ukraine. And they're standing here today, and I'm going to call it a few digits. Today, there are 1 million 250,000 people in line for housing. Ukraine is building, and in 2007, Ukraine built 10 million square meters of housing. In 1990 26 million were built. According to the Ministry of Regional Development and Construction, about 400 million square metres of housing are needed by the so-called five-storey or cartilage. It is not difficult to calculate how long it will take for the state to move people away from their homes. So when the developers were doing this document, the Housing Code, I remember that when we adopted the Local Self-Government Act 1991, we raised the issue of preparing such a document. And over the years, better residential professionals have been doing this document. Unfortunately, there are no mayors in the Hall today, no representatives of the City Mayors Association, no people who are dealing with it. Now Baranov raises his hand – this is probably the only mayor in this room today who's handling the matter. [[in the past, true, just like me]] Therefore, if we have a discussion of the principle, that the State will soon be able to move people out of former “baptisms”, without investors, without involving serious business, the State will never find such sadness to move out. [[And that's the principle question -- I agree.]] Sadly, for political reasons today, we are on the verge of not making such a decision. What is the reason for this decision? Because our neighbors, including Russia, including Moscow, are long ahead of us, they have built their starting rooms through the involvement of investors and have moved there. Moscow solved the issue by 40 percent. So I think that, really, the bill has notes, we have to fix them. And the bill is adopted in the first reading. I think that after the discussion, after the changes have been made, this document will solve the issue of Ukrainian housing and utility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u59	Thank you. I invite Yuri Miroshnick, faction of the Party of the Regions. Get ready. About what? [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, Vladimir Bondarenko. Next up is Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u60	Well, no problem. Dear friends, don't worry, I was speaking for the faction. I have something else to say because there wasn't much time. First of all, I'd like to point out that, and once again, I would like to emphasize that this Codex in this form can be put to work on the committee with our comments -- that's the first. The second thing I'd like to say is that in it, I've already called some bugs, but there are a few other bugs. In particular, the order of tariff formation. Well, everybody's doing what they want today, and nobody's interested in an important system of economic indicators like the cost of service. Well, how can you even take a favor off the ceiling and call it that much? This does not take into account the totally unproductive costs involved. In Kiev, for example, Kievenergo included a few million banquet expenses and presentations. Is this the kind of service that the Chinese need today? Or, for example, 71 million, for 71 million, oil has been stolen from the Kiev TEC. There's a criminal case now, but that money's on the line. What I'm saying is that tariffs include such odious things in Kiev, like cleaning out toilets that don't exist, they're now self-sustaining, deratization, disinfection, disinfection that no one has ever, ever, ever actually done. I would like to point out that the order of tariff formation needs to be clearly defined in the law. Who does what and who controls. Today, this disorder leads to the fact that people do not understand what they are paying for. The 560 decree requires that they understand, and it is written on every approach that is provided here, at what time, in what extent, and in what quality. Today it's gone. Moreover, today the requirement to set up counters for these services is not mandatory. In Kiev, several thousand counters have been there for a few years, because it is uncomfortable to install Kievenergo today, because people have to pay for counters. So they hid them in warehouses and kept them hidden. If I want to make another offer, I will make sure that I make a note of the order in which to determine the quality of housing and how to move out of a home that is not suitable for living. Today, it is sometimes used by the authorities. So it's recognized as a house that's not fit to live, that's where the conveyor goes to settle the individual categories, especially, including the law enforcement and they're settled and evicted, and that's just going to go with the flats, the tens. These buildings are special in Kiev around 5 TES and in other areas. So if we miss this bill in the first reading today, we're going to be able to work on it in those positions that today don't seem to be the authors of the project, not obviously those who understand these problems, because today we're using the Housing Code of the one who was being praised here, and I'm stressing again, and why didn't that code count half the population of Ukraine as peasants, they're discriminated against in the housing law system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u61	Thank you, Vladimir Dmitrovich. The discussion is over. Please, Miroshnichenko has been announced. Please, Yuri Romanovich, the last speaker.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u62	Dear voters! Dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. You know, responsible voting and it's really about systemic reform, the need for systemic reform is what every politician is talking about today and, more importantly, every candidate for President of Ukraine. And before we vote, would you like to ask one simple question, please tell us with you, citizens who are addressing us, what is the state of things that are in the housing, the utility? Say, please, non-admission, non-legislatively addressing the problems that have been discussed today, is that not the basis for the abuse of corruption and the actual loss of citizens today? Are people being thrown off the streets today? Whether they're taking property from people today, and I'm totally in agreement with the previous speakers who were defending private property, utility property, and, I think we have a second reading of this. read it more precisely, review it and clarify it. But do you and I have the right to ignore the adoption of this codex today? I don't think we do. A party of regions will take bold steps and vote in favour of this bill in the first reading. On the second reading, all the warnings that have been made will be discussed in an article. Each of the critics who today have absolutely rightly asked the question of the bill will be able to either remove the standards that are harmful or propose other standards that will improve the situation that is being proposed today. And in this way, both Ukraine and its citizens will be able to solve their housing problems in a civilized legal way. Dear colleagues, I would suggest that you trust, in fact, the authors who have worked on this bill for 10 years. And the positions of the government, which also invite us to vote and support this reform, and to second reading, by correcting all shortcomings in the adoption of this law. I call on everyone to support me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u63	Thank you. Final word Volodymyr Vasilovich Rybak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u64	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to express my thanks to each of the speakers and those who have listened for your patience and suggestions. One proposal is the Housing Code. And some positions I'd just like to decipher very briefly. It's a place. We are now using the 1983 Codex. Here's an example for you. Emergency accommodation must be moved today, whether in Donetsk, Kiev, or Lviv. They move the house, and the man who lives in the center of Lviv is sent from Kiev to Borispol. Today, we sign up to small amounts to ensure that the rights of residents are not violated when housing is demolished. It's all written down. And when individual speakers say that the government has come out with such slogans, I support it, but these are the slogans that remain. I understand there may be slogans at the rallies, but we've got a government project, and here's the first Deputy Minister of Government, and we are. This is Yuri Sergeyevich, and we have taken into account all the wishes of the Government and all the wishes of the deputies. Therefore, when it comes to social housing, it is stated that the people who became residents before 1991 need to see all these homeless people, and they are not going anywhere, the State is obliged to give housing to those who cannot buy it. And there's a "accessible housing" right there, and there's something that needs to be specified for people who can buy this place. Therefore, there are absolutely no questions here. Therefore, I would ask you to take as a basis today the option proposed by the Committee, which represents all the political forces, the representatives of the Government, to let us work, and then, in an article, we will discuss all the articles on second reading. And I think we'll take the fullest account of the proposals made by all the deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u65	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. According to the regulations, we have people who are officially invited. If the deputies have good will, we can. Is there such good will? Please, we are officially authorized by the Cabinet of Ministers of Lototic Orestes Bogdanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u66	Ladies and gentlemen, the discussion of today’s bill has shown that there is a variety of opinions. I want to confirm that this document is indeed a symbiosis of two drafts of the Housing Codex: the government and the MPs. The ministry that I represent and its experts have been actively working on a committee of appropriate profile. We've agreed on all the positions that have arisen in this process of processing. And once again, I want to confirm that the government fully supports this bill and asks it to support it in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u67	Thank you. It is based on the first reading of the draft Ukrainian Housing Code, registration number 2307-d. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:08:36]] For 368 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, in accordance with the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the morning, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Prevention and Opposition to the Legalization of Proceeds by Crime is being announced. Registration number 3062. We have a second reading. Please, Deputy Arjevitin. Please, you're on the rostrum, now, one second. From the process of dealing with the matter? Please, Efraemov Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u68	Dear Alexander. Huh?Oh, my God! This is a second reading, and no summary procedure is allowed. I'm sorry. I'm taking down my question.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u69	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u70	Dear National Deputies! Stanislav Arjewitin, group “For Ukraine! ” I would like to remind you that in Ukraine we have a national system to combat the laundering of dirty money. Today, there is a double system of financial monitoring. They are participants in the primary financial monitoring that includes all financial institutions and financial services. It's level two. This is a government system of financial monitoring that includes ministries, government commissions, and we have a special authority. This is the State Committee on Financial Monitoring of Ukraine. There has been a problem since 2003, this is the lack of implementation of our national legislation into international standards. Over the past six years, 11 different drafts have been submitted by the deputies, but for some reason or other, they have not been adopted. The need for adoption of this bill today is called for by the following. In their letters to Ukraine, the FATF Group is an international organisation for the development of financial measures to combat money-laundering, which includes the 33 largest countries in the world, noted that if we do not accept changes in our national legislation by 9 November, that is, the date of the meeting of this group, our Ukraine may be on the list of those countries in the world that are considered dangerous to the international financial system. I've already demonstrated today, here's the list, here's the candidates, as we say, on the blacklist, Ukraine is already here.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u71	Stanislaw Mikhailovich, please stop, please. We have a second reading of the bill. You're confusing something. So, please, we all have a table that the committee recommends that we consider what to reject.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u72	Then I'm the committee's conclusion.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u73	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u74	I'm sorry. Committee opinion: “Recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt, in second reading and in general, the draft Ukrainian Act amending certain legislative acts”. I just wanted to say that there were 200 amendments to this bill, 156 amendments included. As far as I know, most MPs who asked for changes don't insist. So we can look at it. The only thing I'd like to make such a warning is that in this bill, all the MPs who had a bearing on it are asking for a rule to be written in the Final Order. I would like to dictate for the transcript that article 7, I apologize, article 17, comes into effect after three months of validity of this law. The point is that all financial institutions will have the opportunity to prepare for 3 months when they will be completed, if they have stopped them, and have various checks on this subject.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u75	Dear colleagues, the committee suggests approval in the second reading as well as in general. Is there a need to consider every correction? Please, a question. National Deputy Carmazin. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u76	Yuri Carmazin. Dear reporter, the first reading allows us to do these things: paragraph 16 of the article on the definition of political actors. [[Oh, my God, what's she doing here?]] This is article one, paragraph 16: “Political officials and persons who hold or hold political office perform or perform important political functions, such as heads of state and government, heads of senior executive, legislative and judicial bodies (!) the authorities.’ [[Don't ……]] We're already here. It's in the first reading. Then there's a note, an amendment: The 14th is your amendment, which is partially counted. You were right to ask the question, what's the difference, what's the definition, what's the political response? But it's written in part. Shaman's 15th amendment, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u77	Turn on Deputy Carmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u78	Thank you. Another amendment is government politicians. It's also written partially. 16 Amendments are political actors, and there is also a record: members of the Supreme Courts, constitutional courts or other judicial bodies, members of the Court of Auditors or administrations, and so on. So this is also partially counted. It's gotta be cleaned! To clean up now, excuse me, in the article-by-article discussion of each article, because we've been introducing such novels here, that it's going to be the same thing as those three laws that no one in the state is paying attention to today -- the complex fight against corruption. Since January 1, the entire nation will groan, for no one knows how to bring a legal person to criminal responsibility, who is there to be taken and dragged to prison and so on. That's why the law, where everything is taken into account and everything is done, doesn't suit me, because there's legal dirt here. Come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u79	Amendment number one. The committee recommends that we consider it. Is there a denial? None. Amendment number 2. Is there a denial? None. Amendment number 3. Is there a miscalculation? Amendment number 4. Is there a denial? None. Amendment number 5. Is there a denial? None. Amendment number six. Is there a denial? None. Amendment number seven. Is there a denial? The committee recommends everyone. The amendment of the Voropeyeva National Deputies, the Prasole Committee recommends a rejection. People's deputies insist? No, they don't. [[B in m in s a l in]] The authors of the amendment do not insist! The committee recommends rejection, no amendment. Amendment number 8. The committee recommends that we consider it. Is there a denial? There's a denial of the national MP Lalashka. I'll bet on the vote of Amendment 8. Amendment No. 8 shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:16:54]] For 223 [[B in m in s a l in]] The decision is not taken. Well, put the right card and look. The reporter doesn't have a card on the stand. I'm betting on the vote to go back to making a decision on Amendment 8. [[12:17:44]] For 334 Decision taken. The vote shall be amended as follows: I'd like to make a statement. [[12:18:08]] For 275 Correction supported. I'll explain. He says it's counted. All we have is what was adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine by vote. All that's written here is a recommendation from the committee. Amendment number nine. The committee recommends that we consider it. Is there a denial? There's no objection. There's a denial. Amendment No. 9 shall be put to the vote. Please vote. [[12:18:51]] For 199 Correction not supported. [[B in m in s a l in]] The second reading procedure is very precise in the Rules. Please, from the procedure Lazko Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u80	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, I had no objection to this amendment. So I can't understand why you put her to the vote. I asked you for another word. I propose that every amendment that is considered by a committee that is not considered to be the same as the bill yesterday, which was presented by a colleague from the Committee on Safety and Defence. I mean, I don't object to the amendments, but let the Supreme Council confirm them accordingly by making a decision by voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u81	I translate what Mr. Lazko said. He has the right to insist, in accordance with the Rules, that amendments be made to the voting that I have done. That is, he denied that a consensus decision would support what the committee was proposing. National MP Pisarenko from the procedure, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u82	Dear colleagues, well, first of all, I'd like to suggest we go back to voting on the amendment that we just voted on, if I'm not mistaken, it was the 8th. Yeah?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u83	The ninth.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u84	Oh, it's 9:00, isn't it? Here's the first, and the second, well, let's look at it this way, if the amendment is counted, if there's no objection, just the objection, let's just keep going to the next amendment, if there's a objection, then vote. Well, just so we don't fail the law now because of these procedures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u85	I personally support your proposal, but I cannot do so, because your faction colleague, Mr. Lazko, insists on voting all the amendments and the Rules, unfortunately, allow him such approaches to formally brake the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote: go back to Amendment 9. [[12:21:12]] For 336 We're back. I'll bet on the vote of Amendment 9. [[12:21:32]] For 338 Correction supported. Amendment No. 10 shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:21:55]] For 324 Amendment No. 11 in the Committee’s drafting shall be subject to a vote. [[12:22:17]] For 314 Correction supported. Amendment No. 12 shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u86	The committee's accounted for. [[12:22:39]] For 297
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u87	Correction supported. Dear colleagues, where the committee recommends a rejection, I'll announce it and ask the authors, so don't worry. Amendment 13 shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:23:06]] For-300 Correction supported. Amendment No. 14 in the Committee’s drafting shall be subject to a vote. I'd like to make a statement. Amendment No. 14 is to be voted on by the committee, please identify yourself. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[12:23:31]] For 297 Correction to committee editing supported. Dear colleagues who have amendments to the amendment, please submit to the committee, paper, pen, secretariat, and will be considered. [[B in m in s a l in]] Amendment 15 in the Committee’s drafting shall be subject to a vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[12:24:03]] For 287 Correction supported. [[B in m in s a l in]] Amendment No. 16 in the Committee’s drafting shall be subject to a vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:24:26]] For 203 Correction not supported. Amendment 17. Amendment 17. [[B in m in s a l in]] Is there an urge to return to this amendment? Please, the microphone of the People's Deputy Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u88	Alexander Volodymyrovich, without delay, please return to the vote on the front amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u89	I'm betting on the vote on the question of return to the decision on amendment number 16. I'd like to make a statement. [[From the hall. Let's go back.]] [[12:25:12]] For-143 We're not back. Next. Amendment 17. The committee's vote is on the table. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:25:37]] For-51 Correction not supported. Amendment No. 18 shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:26:02]] For-44 Correction not supported. Amendment No. 19 of the Arjevetina People’s Deputies applies to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:26:24]] For-45 Correction not supported. Amendment No. 20 shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. Amendment 20 of the People's Deputies of Poluniev, please identify yourself. [[12:26:48]] For-45 Amendment 21 of the Voropeyeva People's Deputies, Prasolulova, vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[12:27:10]] For-30 Correction not supported. Amendment No. 22 of the national deputies Voropeyeva and Prosolulova are voting. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:27:33]] For-24 Correction not supported. Please proceed with the decision-making procedure, National MP Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u90	Dear colleagues! I suggest we calm down. In fact, the vote went somewhere wrong. There's an offer. What's that? To return from the 16 amendments, yes, to return to the vote on these amendments. [[If I'm not mistaken, the first room I didn't vote on.]] And let's go back to normal work, what's counted, it's counted. Where the remark is, we'll listen to our colleague Karmazin, what he wants. And we're going to vote for the whole law so we don't look like we're in front of our constituents right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u91	Zarubinsky National MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u92	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich, Oleg Zarubinsky's Block of Lithuania. Dear colleagues! What's happening now, you see, is the law is falling. It's already down. You understand very well that there is a representative of the relevant service that, with those unvoted amendments that have not been voted on, it ceases to be a full document. [[from the tens to the present]] That's what these games did. And they relate, I think, not to this law, but to the next law. That is, there is a desire, evidently, not to allow consideration of what has been voted on and what is to be voted on today. And as a result, the hostage has become a very important law, which is going to strike at everyone and not at me, especially at those businessmen who are sitting here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u93	Please, from the examination procedure, Paul Zebrowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u94	Dear colleagues! I'm going first. It's the first time I've ever met the representatives of the B.U.T. I would like to point out that we have made a decision that the next law will not pass without consideration. We're not going to break up. And the next law will be discussed in the session room. We've made this decision with you, and that's why we just fall because we don't want to consider the next law. It's the wrong thing to do. And I'm talking to a colleague. Businessmen don't lose, Ukraine loses! Because, in large numbers, this is going to be a problem, not for someone personally, but for businesses where people who produce gross domestic product and pay taxes work. That's why I wouldn't start saying that someone, some businessmen, would have problems. Problems will be in Ukraine's economy! And I'd like to take some of my stuff for parentheses and start working the way we did.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u95	Please, Deputy Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u96	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I've been holding your hand for 12 minutes. I mean, Alexander Volodymyrovich, you've noticed everyone. I was asking questions about the 14th amendment, saying that it balanced the law. Look what you voted for! Look at the right-hand side of column 29 in the understandable apparatus. You have politicians who are members of the Supreme Court, the Constitutional Court or other high-level judicial bodies whose decisions are not subject to prosecution, except in exceptional circumstances, or members of the Court of Auditors and so on. These are the Plenipotentiary Extraordinary Ambassadors. Look what you wrote! And instead of cleaning it up right now, clean it up with one step. It was just supposed to be removed right now. You blow it up, you want to sell it in a strong way. There was no relation to democracy what was happening right now during the vote. So, Alexander Volodymyrovich, I don't understand why you left today.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u97	Dear colleagues, the last of the proceedings is Deputy Shevchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u98	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, you have a difficult mission, end of the week, Friday, final hour of work. But I think it's up to you now how this bill is going to be considered important. If FatFs were now being followed as the Ukrainian Parliament, laughing at this important act, they would probably have already decided to include Ukraine in the blacklist. Take a break, gather the faction leaders and let the leaders determine how serious this important act is. Now it's just a mockery of the rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts about further working procedures in accordance with the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And because factions insist that we may now go back to adopting decisions on amendments 16-22 that were not supported by the people's deputies. After that, we will have the opportunity to give every MP who insists on his amendment, which the committee does not recommend counting, voting them, as well as the amendments the committee recommends to take into account, and the people's deputies insist that they be removed. And then we're going to vote on the law as a whole. Is there no objection to such an approach? There's no room!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u100	I'm putting this proposal, which Deputy Pisarenko has put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:33:57]] For 336 Decision taken. I now place the vote on the return to amendments 14-22 for which the Supreme Council has not supported. Come back. [[12:34:25]] For 329 Decision taken. We're back. I'm betting on a motion to support amendments from 14 to 22, which the committee recommends to take into account. I'd like to make a statement. NO, no, no, you can't! You can't bet on that! You can't do that. Let's do the repairs. Let's go fix it, Alexander Volodymyrovich! [[12:34:53]] For 330. Decision taken. Now, honourable colleagues, who are members of the national deputies of Ukraine, whose amendments the committee recommends to reject, insist on their consideration and consideration. Please, National Deputy Carmazin, what is the number of the amendment you insist on?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u101	Alexander Volodymyrovich! Yuri Carmazin. You are now leaving in the text of the law what will have to be removed, that the political actors in you have become members of the Supreme Court, the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u102	Please turn off Carmazin's microphone. Dear colleagues! Who have the amendments he insists on, which committee recommends that we reject? There aren't any? None. Now, which of Ukraine’s national deputies has a warning about amendments, ranging from 23 to 192?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u103	What amendment is denied by those recommended by the committee? There's no objection. There is now another proposal that was made on behalf of the committee for article 17 to take effect three months after the law was published. I'm putting this proposal to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:36:25]] For 339 Decision taken. I am voting on the second reading of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Prevention and Opposition to the Legalization of Proceeds by Crime. Registration number 3062. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:36:57]] For 370. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, before voting in general, please, Stanislaw Mikhailovich, who. Are there problems and, if they exist, which need to be settled before voting in general?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u104	Well, I don't know. Maybe we can give Carmazin a chance to have the only thought.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u105	You don't know. This answer is exhausted. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, the microphone of the People's Deputy Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u106	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, in order to get out of this situation, must now be excluded from the political actors any mention of the judges of the Supreme Court or the Constitutional Court or other judicial bodies, as it says, “a different level”. This is page 17, notice, open up, please look. This is an unconstitutional decision. And after the second reading, we have to do a third reading. I suggest we remove it now and then we can adopt a law in general without a third reading. The committee agrees, Arjevitin agrees. By the way, it was the 14th amendment, the 15th, the 16th illegal, because they wouldn't say it. So it was an amendment to him, he saw this one. Inadequate all these gross violations of the Constitution. We involve judges in politics and we put that in, we show that this is a FATF. For whom do we adopt the law, for the Ukrainian people, or for whom do we report? So I'm asking you to vote off these positions, they're necons.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u107	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that the Supreme Council does not approve illegal decisions, especially if the will of more than 300 deputies is expressed in the Hall of Support, it is for the help of Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin. As for his proposal on page 17, I would like to explain, if the reporter can explain, where it is stated that members of the Supreme Court, the Constitutional Court or other high-level judicial bodies whose decisions are not subject to prosecution, except in exceptional circumstances. Is the language about public control of their financial activity or is it something else? Because they're completely different things that they take to. I would ask that Yuri Anatoliyovich here also not be too deceptive about the session hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u108	Please, Stanislaw Mikhailovich, your argument on this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u109	Ladies and gentlemen, we put the proposal 14, 15, 16 deputies together in one proposal, we put it together, it was a discussion, and we put it in 29 articles, 29 paragraphs in general. It's about publicity, so, frankly, it's a legal kind of legal detail. I'm not ready to comment on it to the end. But in our discussions, all of these proposals by the three authors, the 14th, the 15th and the 16th, we summed it up, and in 29 paragraphs we've shown it. In our view, the committee was right. We didn't have a point.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u110	Thank you. There were no comments. This is not about the attitude of someone else, but it is about people who make decisions in the name of Ukraine that are not subject to review. And the point is that if these people are doing some kind of operation, they're in the category of those they can monitor. It's different things. Please, the keykowski MP's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u111	Thank you. Yuri Klukkowski, “Our Ukraine”. I would like to point out that the judge is one of the sub-paragraphs of the paragraph that describes the categories of political actors. This is unacceptable to judges. My offer is to withdraw the political word. Since judges cannot be politicians, this is contrary to the nature of the judiciary. In this, in this paragraph, which describes the whole category, where the sub-paragraph is the judge, remove the words of the politicians.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u112	Dear colleagues! And here, Deputy Klukkowski is right. Then the point remains, it's perfectly correct. This only removes two words and risks. Political actors and risks – delete and then continue to be in the text: “Physical persons entrusted with or entrusted with execution” – continue with the text. No objections? It's a legal-technical editing that's going to have to be done. Please, the People's Deputies of Voropeyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u113	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, according to the FATF recommendation, this list, which is set out for political figures, is clearly in line with the FATF recommendations. This time. Secondly, by amending an article listing who is a political actor and who is not. We will imbalance the entire law because this terminology is mentioned in other articles. I have a request: don't change anything in the law now, leave it as it is, it's all correctly written, as recommended by the FATF.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u114	Dear colleagues, let's not discuss this right now, because I see that there is no objection in any of the national MPs that judges are required to remain on the list. The question is that the definition of "political actor" given at the outset is deleted because they are still referred to as "physical persons" and go to the full list. So there's a proposal that we're going to put the law to the vote in general with the task of legal and technical editing, and we're going to have to make it exactly in line with international instruments. No objections? I am voting on the whole bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Prevention and Opposition to the Legalization of Proceeds Received by Crime. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:43:51]] For 393 The law has been passed in general. Once again, when preparing for signature by the General Legal Office, I request that the terminology of international documents be verified by the wording contained in article number 2. Dear colleagues, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2009 is being announced for consideration. Wait a minute, we haven't put the day in order yet. I'm betting on a vote for inclusion in the agenda. Ah, included in the morning, I'm sorry. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2009 is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 5297]] First Deputy Head of the Ukrainian Presidential Secretariat, Slapak Alexander Mihajlovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u115	Dear Lord Chairman, distinguished national MPs! () [[B in m in s a l in]]
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u116	Alexander Vitaliyovich, one second! By way of an examination of the matter?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u117	Please sign up for this matter. Moisik Volodymyr Romanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u118	Vladimir Moisik, MP “For Ukraine!” Please pass the word to a colleague of Carpuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u119	Please, Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u120	Vladimir Karpuk, a parliamentary group “for Ukraine! ” Dear colleagues, there is a bill proposed by the President, 5297. It needs to be considered, it's opening the way to the implementation of the bill on raising subsistence minimum and minimum wage, showing sources of funding at the expense of resources that are saved at the expense of the budget to cover the internal debt. So this bill needs to be voted on, supported and implemented, what we voted for before, so that from November 1st, people will get the minimum of their living as defined by law. And the same is true of the hundreds of millions that will be spent, which will be able to finance payments to low - income families.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u121	Victor Taran, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u122	Hand over the can, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u123	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! This bill cannot be considered today in the hall, and even more so in general, in view of the following. First, the sources proposed by the author of the bill to increase expenditure under a number of budget programmes are proposed to reduce the amount of funding for internal government debt. But what I want to remind you is that a large part of the funds, including 500 million, we've already taken from domestic debt services and we've been targeting the flu epidemic in the country. That's the first one. The other one. The bill is incomplete, leading, for example, to the fact that the salaries of a large part of the military will be lower than the minimum wage. The same applies to higher education staff, that is to say.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u124	Bondik Valeriy Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u125	I would like to give you the word of Ephraim to Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u126	Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u127	Alexander Volodymyrovich, a colleague, is offered to consider the bill in a simplified manner.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u128	People's representative of Pudov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u129	At this time, we are observing not only the illegal act in the Council walls but also the “under the shortened procedure”. No conclusions or profile committee. It's just a political effort. And nothing else. And there will be no legal consequences. So please don't look at it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u130	Hell-bent Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u131	Dear colleagues! I believe that the discussions on this issue are unnecessary, it is necessary to put this issue into short notice, it is necessary to vote in favour of it, and our colleagues, who, in a mild sense, do not share this position, must understand that, in any case, this law has already taken effect, it will be implemented. Either you obey the decision of the majority, or your Government must resign. Please choose. We are telling you today that this law will be voted on and the money will be paid in November until the money provided for by this law is paid. This is what we, the Party of the Regions, say in Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u132	Sushenko Alexander Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u133	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, I ask you to give the floor to my colleague Sobolje Sergey Vladislavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u134	Sergey Vladislavovich was involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u135	Thank you. Dear colleagues, if those who have read this law carefully, the bill tabled by the President has no relation to the decision voted in Parliament. And I'll give you three examples. The first example. This law does not provide for a penny of funding in the budget for minimum wages and minimum living. And you're going to see it: not a penny does it. This law envisages a 450 million reduction in funding for children with disabilities and appropriate categories. And you'll see it clearly too. And the third. This law provides for a level playing field in pensions, because the 700 million in the Presidential Bill will go solely to raise a minimum pension without reviewing everyone else. Whoever wants to cut it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u136	Dear colleagues, one suggestion came during the discussion of the procedure is to consider this bill in a simplified manner. I'm putting the people's deputy Ephraim's proposal to a vote. [[12:51:40]] For 212 Offer supported. We're looking at a reduced procedure. Alexander Vitaliyovich, two minutes report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u137	Thank you. Dear Lord Chairman, distinguished national MPs! Considering that I have only two minutes, I regret not being able to explain the logic and principles of the President by signing the law and the difference between us and the Ministry of Finance. So I can only say that we have carefully verified all the figures that are given to you for consideration. And they correspond to the real state of things. And in case you support this law, the President, all of our pensioners will have a real source so that 6.5 million pensioners, I emphasize, who are now receiving a pension below the subsistence minimum, will finally get it, as recorded in 46 articles of the Constitution at the minimum of living. As for the time I've been given, I'm only going to use it to talk about the source. Indeed, we suggest that we use the source of the economy to service government debt. I want to remind you that in the 2009 budget, $10 billion has been invested in services. I think that Vladimir Makarovich, who is here, will confirm my words that only 4.5 billion will be used by the end of the year. So, Mr. Lazko, there will be money for 500 million to finance with the flu, and the 1.5 billion that the government has already used, without asking Parliament, by sending this money to raise wages to farmers, librarians and so on, and has done so by its decree, as well as to implement such an important law that Parliament adopted the 20th. On October 20th, I am especially stressing this date, since Mr. Sobolev has suggested that today’s payments are already higher. Of course, after the 20th Parliament passed this law, the 21st Government, the 21st of October, using some logic that I don't understand, took and increased by 600 million payments. I think in the same way the government after the adoption of the law today will gather and accordingly increase to some extent the social pay to the most vulnerable groups in order to preserve the principle of justice. I just want to say.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u138	Finish up, Alexander Vitaliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u139	Ladies and gentlemen, I've read the Ministry of Finance's comments carefully and I think they're absolutely right at one point and this mistake should be corrected. The point is that according to Ukrainian legislation, changes to the minimum of living and minimum wage are made solely by the Budget Act. You've passed a separate law. And so if the Supreme Council agrees, I would suggest, in addition to the amendments made by the President and related to the money, in articles 54 and 55 of the State Budget Act, that the amounts of the subsistence minimum and minimum wage that you have voted for in a separate law replace those that stand there today. So we're going to have a complete legal structure, and once again, I emphasize, it's going to allow for a minimum of 6.5 million pensioners and 480,000 budgetees who get minimum wage below the minimum wage, and they're going to get paid. Only these categories. Absolute compliance with the constitutional principle is to protect the most vulnerable groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u140	Thank you, Alexander Vitaliovich. Please sit down. A report from the committee head of the Committee, Dr. Mikola Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u141	Dear chairman, national deputies, are invited! The draft amendment to the 2009 Act on the State Budget of Ukraine, submitted by the President of Ukraine at number 5297, was not considered by the Committee on Budget Issues in connection with the absence of a quorum at the meeting scheduled for 4 November. At the same time, the bill does not provide for a settlement of the issue of paying the employee of budgetary institutions and the increase in the Act on the establishment of a minimum of living. The main scientific and expert office considers it appropriate to draw the conclusions of the government and the National Bank on the legislative initiative taken. The Ministry of Finance does not support this bill. Minfin points out that the bill does not provide for changes in living minimum and minimum wage. In this way, the social standards approved by the State Budget Act 2009 and the Act on the establishment of living minimum and minimum wage will be applied simultaneously, In addition, Minfin believes that the increase proposed by the President of Ukraine in the pension fund will only provide for an increase in the minimum pension, which will lead to a level playing field in pension payments. The same is true of paying for work in the budget area. At the same time, if the bill is to be adopted, it is necessary, first, to provide technical clarification to the bill in order to bring it into line with the rules of the legislative technique, namely in additions, to indicate the names of the specific addenda to which the amendments are made. In Appendix 1, delete the line “outputs of everything” because the bill does not modify the general expenditure rates of the State budget. The other one. To ensure a balance between the state budget and the alignment of the bill with the latest edition of the Ukrainian State Budget Act for 2009, taking into account the laws adopted to amend the Ukraine State Budget Act for 2009, including from 3 November to counter the influenza epidemic in Ukraine. You have to make a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u142	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u143	the signing of the Committee on Budget Issues, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council, to make the text of the law and Appendices a necessary editorial and technical legal clarification, particularly in the context of the clarification of the summative indicators of the State budget of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u144	Thank you, Milo Ivanovich. Let's write it down: two "for" – two "against". Sergey Vladislavovich was involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u145	Sobolev, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear colleagues, I am once again addressing the bill that the President has tabled. According to the bill, it is proposed to increase spending by 100 million to support children with disabilities and other categories of citizens. The government has made a decision to increase this funding by more than 500 million dollars. In the event that such a decision is taken, it means that 400 million dollars compared to what the government has adopted will be reduced by this category of citizens. That's why I'm asking you to exclude it from the bill. Part two, which applies to minimum pensions. According to the president's report, this was confirmed. Only 700 million will go to minimum pensions without change, which should be applied to other pensions other than minimum pensions. This means that about seven million of our fellow citizens will again receive a minimum pension regardless of their internships, their participation, their qualifications, and all the other principles laid down in pension legislation. So I suggest that 700 million people be excluded, because this leads to a comparison and degradation of pension legislation. And now it's the main thing. Parliament, although we did not vote in favour of this decision, decided to raise the minimum level of living and minimum wage. The President's bill doesn't provide a penny for that. That is why we propose that this bill be considered carefully in two readings. The Law on Budgets should bring all of this to an end and end these games. Moreover, until now, the President has not signed our decision to allocate a billion dollars to combat the epidemic. What additional funds might this be? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u146	Kirilenko Viacheslav Anatoliyevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u147	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “For Ukraine!” Dear colleagues! Dear voters! We are considering a simple question, in the sense that Parliament must find ways to implement its decisions. Parliament has decided to raise social standards: minimum pension and minimum wage. But there was no provision for such increases in the budget. Since the government does not make these costs and such changes to the budget, it is only reasonable that the President of Ukraine made such a proposal under the current Constitution and legislation. In this regard, it is necessary to consider the bill now and to support the beginning of the increased payments to the most vulnerable. This bill deals with the allocation of an additional 717 million dollars to the Pension Fund. We know that, unfortunately, the Pension Fund has been on grant for many years, and it's on a multi-billion dollar grant now. But additional money is needed to increase minimum pensions. The president found the source, and he predicted it. The second item is intended to increase and distribute subsidies to low-income families, families with children, children with disabilities and disabled persons from childhood in appropriate local budgets. These are the minimum costs that are being removed to remove the problem. So I urge everyone not to politicize this issue, but to vote, even those against such promotions in the first reading and in general to increase the allocation of pension funds and increase the corresponding social assistance. And members of the coalition, because the group “For Ukraine!” is not part of the ruling coalition, I remind you that this bill of its own time was introduced into the agenda by the coalition faction “Block of Lithuania”. And we supported this bill then. We'll support the increase in pensions now.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u148	Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich. Hell-bent Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u149	Respected colleagues, the issue consists of two parts: economic and ethical. Well, first of all, it's economic. Sounds like a terrible figure in a billion two hundred. But really, it's very normal money for a serious country like us. One trillion 40 billion gross domestic product. This is what makes 30,000 Ukrainians a year. That's less than one hundred, one tenth percent. So calm down, please, that kind of money in Ukraine is there, you just have to lean down and raise that money. The other question is that you don't want to lean over. Why? Because you need to understand clearly that the Government is not a choir of boys and not a group of girls. It is a majority group of people who are delegated by you to the Government, which is obliged to implement the decisions of the majority. 250 people voted half a month ago for the law. You had half a month, you expected it to blow!? It will not dissipate, it is a question that will be realized! You didn't want to propose your bill, the President, in our own way, neither I nor my faction are members of the President's fan club! But we will support him because our constituents are behind it! If you wanted to, you could have done it sooner! Now it's either the law or the things and the way out!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u150	The discussion is over. Dear colleagues, we have been formally invited by the government to take part in this matter by Deputy Finance Minister Matwijczuk Vladimir Makarovich. Wait a second. So there is a request for a procedural decision. Where did you go? There is a proposal to adopt a procedural decision in accordance with the Rules on request to allow it to express the Government’s view. This is a proposal I'm putting to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:06:26]] For the 110. The decision is not taken. Please, from the procedure for the adoption of the law, Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u151	Adam Ivanovich, please wait a minute. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I ask you to sit in the workplace and what democracy is, take textbooks and read, and what the Rules are, and how it needs to be followed. Please, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u152	Dear colleagues, today will be a unique phenomenon - for the first time in the President's activities a faction of Communists will support his bill. [[Applause]] And the second. Today we will not only help the President, but today I urge you all to help the government. Because every day the government on television asks: Help and amend the State Budget Act to implement the Social Standards Act. They cry every day that they do not have the means to enforce this law. Therefore, you and I today must hand over to the government the mechanism for implementing this law. Third. I would ask the Committee on Budget Affairs, and I think it should have to do with the law enforcement committees to figure out on what basis the government is changing the legislative base and accepting the Cabinet's orders.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u153	Complete, please, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u154	Takes orders from the Cabinet of Ministers to amend the laws. And the last. I'm asking you to support that proposal that we've made in both 54 and 55 articles, in fact, that the law should be like the law, and that it should be accepted as a whole, and that we should be able to get the money from November 01.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u155	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. From the faction, the word is given to Oleg Valeriyovich. Please. Oh, I'm sorry. One second, one second, one second. Turn off the microphone on the stand, please. From the faction, we had a summary of Sobolev's summary procedure, Sergey Vladislavovich. Please. [[Noise Nodes]] We have two in favour, two in favour, and we have those factions who have not entered into the discussion in accordance with the Ukrainian Supreme Council Rules. [[Noise Nodes]] Following the decision - making procedure, please, I ask Kožemyakin Andriy Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u156	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! Well, the thing is, there's a normal procedure going on right now, as they say, a situation, i.e., they've given their word and they've all come forward. We wanted a government representative to speak. Well, you want to get objective information. That's why we're proposing from Oleg Lášk's faction instead of representing the government to speak up and let our colleagues support us. If they're not afraid, let them support it. If they're afraid, don't back up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u157	Andriy Anatoliyovich, I personally support your offer. You know, there's a strict regulatory rule. Officially invited persons have the right to speak. In making a procedural decision, 150 votes are required. I propose to go back to the decision to grant the right to speak to the official of the Cabinet of Ministers. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:10:28]] For a-117. The decision is not taken. I'm sorry, there's nothing I can do. It is the vote on the first reading of the draft Act amending the Ukraine Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2009, registration number 5297. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:11:09]] For 247 Decision taken. Dear, distinguished colleagues! During the presentation of the draft law authorized by the President of Ukraine, Alexander Vitaliyovich Šlapak also proposed to amend articles 54 to 55 of the draft State Budget Act by transferring those rules that have already become valid and are now valid from the law on the establishment of a minimum wage and minimum wage, number 1646. Please, from the procedure for further approval, from the procedure for further decision-making, please, National Deputy Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u158	One second. Alexander Volodymyrovich! Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. So you're proposing to make some changes to the Budget Act. It's not on the paper, nobody's been looking at it. But you've just said yourself, you can't do things like that with a voice. Our faction strongly denies making any changes out of voice. We insist on voting on this law for a second reading. To give us an opportunity, because there's a lot of abrasions that we've been talking about, and that's going to bring about a pension balance, there's no change in the living minimum or the minimum wage. We suggest that the second reading of this law be carefully revised, and even more so, the proposals for budget changes. And I'd like to say it separately. Looking at the changes to the budget and not giving the word to the government representative that you're asking to implement this budget, this is such a democracy in Danish, this is it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u159	Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u160	Dear colleagues, I find the arguments entirely unfounded. We have these paragraphs in the existing law, we have voted for it, and everyone knows them. Therefore, Alexander Vladimirovich, I ask you to put to the vote what you have heard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u161	Dear colleagues, I'd like to say that he's right now and the head of the regulatory committee and the authorised representative of the President. It's not about any new proposals, it's about actual norms that have become valid in the law, and these norms are a suggestion that they should be found not only in one law but also in another. So I'm voting on a proposal for that. so that the Supreme Council of Ukraine today can consider the decision to adopt the whole of this law. If that is the will of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Let's make a decision. Please identify yourself. [[13:14:33]] For 245 Decision taken. [[Applause]] Thus, the adoption vote as a whole is the bill of the Draft Law amending the State Budget Act 2009 (Registration No. 5297), taking into account the provision of a transfer to the State Budget Act. () [[B in m in s a l in]]
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u162	() [[From the Hall]] We deny it! We deny the adoption of this law in general! You're breaking the Rules!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u163	Predicting the transposition of Articles 54 and 55 of the State Budget Act of the Law on the establishment of living minimum and minimum wage.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u164	() [[From the Hall]] We deny it!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u165	This proposal is based on a vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:15:25]] For 246 The law has been passed in general. () [[Applause]] The factions? Please. Region Party – 169, “Timoshenko Yulia Block” – 0, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” – 33, Communists – 25, “Litvina Block” – 19, non-fractional – 0. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, we have yet to adopt a decision on the transfer of parliamentary hearings, a proposal made yesterday by the chairman of the committee of the Yavorovska Volodymyr Aleksandrovitch. These proposals are given to you. Since parliamentary hearings are scheduled for the following Wednesday, and if we do not make decisions today, they must take place. But there is an appropriate situation that creates difficulties with their conduct. Please, from the decision-making procedure of Efraem Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u166	Dear Alexander Vladimirović, distinguished colleagues, we still have time to work today, so the proposal with which Alexander Vladimirović came out has been suggested to consider the draft Supreme Council Order 5310, which includes questions of streamlining activities, banking. I would like to ask you to consider this law now, come back, the draft regulation now.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u167	Didn't I hear the law, Alexander Sergiyovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u168	Draft decision of the Supreme Council 5310/P.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u169	Please, on this draft law, National MP Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u170	Dear Alexander Sergiyovich! I am speaking to my colleague Ephraim, who tells us what the urgent question is about banks that need to be considered. We have here, by the way, an unexamined 3271 -- changes to the law against the spread of child pornography. Are you not interested? After the scandal, pornography is no longer of interest! That is why we strongly deny and, in addition, the previous vote. Alexander Volodymyrovich, you have violated the requirements of the Rules. There were people, a whole faction that denied acceptance in general. You did not vote in favour of moving away from the procedure, you deprived us of the possibility of making proposals to the law for second reading. I am very sorry to see you violate the rules of the Supreme Council and deprive the deputies of the opportunity to express your position, your opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u171	Dear colleagues, if you have seen in my actions a violation of the Rules, you know how the regulations can then be acted upon. Please, People's Deputy Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u172	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! Our faction denies any current consideration of the regulations that we have here on the eve of time, and we all understand the implications of these regulations there, and let's not tell everyone right now on the air what we want and what's urgent, yes, so that we don't go from wages to our private interests, let's move on now to the speeches of the deputies, as provided for in the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u173	Dear colleagues, the procedure has come out. I propose that we carry out an action that does not take up much time, but it does relate to the fact that on Wednesday we have our next parliamentary hearings and the profile committee are proposing to move them in relation to the situation in Ukraine today. No objections? Please, Vladimir Aleksandrovich, brief report. Let's get out of here. Yavorovsky Volodymyr Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u174	Vladimir Yavorowski, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko”, Committee on Culture and Spirituality. Dear colleagues, I will not take up your time altogether. We're ready for the hearing, the committee's ready. But the appeal of so many participants in these hearings in connection with the flu, you see, is then our internal order here on the Supreme Council, that outsiders should not actually be released to the Supreme Council during this epidemic. Because of this committee, all the factions represented on the committee voted. I've put in a draft decision. And please support the transfer of these hearings to December 9. Thank you in advance for supporting us.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u175	Is there a need to discuss? If there is no need to discuss, I am voting on draft regulation 5317: on the postponement of the date of parliamentary hearings on the subject “National identity in Ukraine in the context of globalisation challenges: problems and ways of preservation”. Please vote. [[13:21:02]] For 315 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, announcements. In accordance with article 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and on the basis of a written appeal by 38 Ukrainian national deputies, members of the parliamentary faction “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense” of November 6, 2009, I am informing you of the recall of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Martinenko Mikoli Volodymirovic, head of the deputy faction “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense”. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, the recording of the “Victane” is being announced. You? People’s deputy Beviz gives the word of Fr. Please, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u176	On Friday, 30 October, the cultural heritage of the city of Odessa, Ukraine, and, in principle, the unique destruction of the entire world burned down Rusov's famous house on Sadosova Street, at the beginning of Deribassovski Street. The famous masterpiece of neo-Baroque architecture and sculptures on a facade made by a famous workshop over 111 years old. The Rusov House is part of the history of the city, the holder and custodian of the 19th century architecture and the unique element of our culture. But for a bunch of deltivators, it's not a monument, it's just an old ruins that occupy over 1,400 square meters of land in the center of southern Palmyra. In an inspection of the technical status of the monument of 14 July 2006, the architect of the archive project NDM, Mr. Bossy, pointed out in all paragraphs “unsatisfying”. The building itself was taken under the protection of the State by decision No. 580 of 27.12.91 of the Odessa Region as a monument to urban buildings and architecture, and by order of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism of 16.06.2007 the building was placed on the State Register of Real Monuments of Ukraine. On 27 May 2004, the Odessa Horsovite was excommunicated by decision No. 300 “on the restoration, complex reconstruction and construction of the area within the buildings”. Pursuant to this decree, the Restorator Division was obliged to work urgently to preserve the house of Rusov in order to preserve this monument of architecture. By letter dated 06.06.2008, the Office for the Protection of Cultural Heritage of the Odessa Office of the Odessa Administration was notified by the number 46 GS “Restorator” that the technical documentation package had been sold by the company Budinvest Group. And it continued until the unknowns simply set fire to the famous architecture monument in the center of Odessa. In Odessa there is no longer a secret, that large construction corporations and firms are simply burning new spots in the city centre with one or two floors, when they come across the Monument of Architecture, and six months later, they appear inconceivable, multi-story concrete and glass monstrosities. Thus, practically the entire historical part of the city of Odessa is set aside. The Russova House is a pearl of the Odessa and the world architecture, and it is the pride of all the Odessites and Ukrainian citizens. During the fire, some 20,000 Odessites, despite the nighttime, came to this monument of architecture, and the next day, the Odessites held a popular rally demanding to find and punish those responsible for the destruction of one of the symbols in the centre of South Palmyra. In my fear of further renunciation from the walls of Odessa Paradise and the offices of the Procurator's Office, I demand, on behalf of hundreds of thousands of Odessites, that the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Office of the Attorney General establish an interdepartmental commission urgently to investigate the burning and destruction of the architecture monument and that the Attorney General, Alexander Medvedjko and Minister of the Interior, Yuri Lucenko, be asked to investigate this resonance case under personal control. On behalf of the faction, please consider the request to the Cabinet of Ministers, to the Office of the Prosecutor and to the Ministry of the Interior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u177	Naydenov Andry Mihailovich. Passes the word to Caletnick.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u178	Igor Kaletnik, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman! The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine repeatedly drew attention to the situation in the Hersonian region as a result of free and openly wrongful actions by the head of the Selenkov government. The extensive theft of government property, the possession of budgetary resources, land machinations, and the complete poverty of ordinary workers have long become characteristic of the work of government in the Hersonian region. In the midst of a complete economic downturn, Governor Selenkov lays a heavy load on the shoulders of Hersonian laborers. In 2008, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, by its decree, supported the proposal to the President of Ukraine to release Selenkov from office as head of the Herson Authority. Yet, the President has so far been thinking deeply. In turn, the governor and all his lieutenants still cannot understand one simple thing that will soon have to be accountable to the law, and that time will come in two months. Not long ago, the Anti - Crime and Corruption Committee had been warned about the attempted acquisition of a state - owned motor vehicle company in Herson by Governor Silenkov. They have not been able to suppress the passions surrounding these events, as the raiders in conspiracies with the Treasury officials are already trying to spread one of the most successful state-owned enterprises – the Askanian Research Farm. What's more, it's about a forest piece -- 7.5 acres of land on the coast of the Azov Sea. On the basis of a falsified decision by the village council, property rights were registered, and while the lawsuits were ongoing, the object had been reselled four times. Last but not least, it's 5.5 million dollars. The rest base is located on this land area and has moved to the famous machination firm of the Kyiv University of Shevchenka TMM. Too late to engage in the struggle for the public interest of law enforcement agencies. Yet, even with the violin, the prosecutor’s office had a criminal case. The absolute inertness of the Herson District Attorney’s Office should be noted, which instead of taking the lead in the investigation, lowers the case to the Attorney’s Office of the Chaplin district. As a result of such a procedural burden, raiders were able to cancel the criminal record in court. Thus, the judicial branch placed a foothold on the law enforcement authorities and on the State’s interests. In stark disregard of the law’s requirements for violating all possible terms, for more than four months now, an appeal against the prosecution is not even scheduled for review. Perhaps the head of the Court of Appeal of the Herson district of Ivanischuk needs to clarify some of the provisions of legislation — to be invited to a qualified panel of judges or to a sessional Hall of the Supreme Council. I call on law enforcement to step up, to take a state position. Because any day of delay can cost the state very dearly. Please consider my application as a parliamentary request to the General Prosecutor's Office, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Security Service. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u179	Gnatkevich Yuri Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u180	Yuri Gnatkevich, Yulia Timoshenko Block. In these days, the medical community, primarily Ukrainian physiotherapists, has celebrated 150 years since the birth of the great Ukrainian healer Vitold Kaminski. Obviously, this Jubilee date obliges us to honor Kaminsky’s own high assessment of his treatment methods. Natural treatments with hydrotherapy, or water treatment, are now worth careful and serious attention. Today’s chemotherapy, according to practice, is at a dead end. It cannot help millions to cope with their chronic illness. In medicine, there is a pharmaceutical business of monsters. The pharmacy has now become more expensive than gastronomys, and the prices for chemicals are rising every day. The Ministry of Health does not protect people from diseases; it does not teach them to prevent them; it does turn into a ministry for the treatment of chronically ill people and pharmacology. His budget does not provide for the prevention of the most common diseases today. Today’s chemical therapists, instead of intensively purifying the body from toxic deposits that have entered the body with food, water, and air, continue to pump into the body new powerful doses of chemical reagents. People say: “One is treated, the other is treated.” Witold Kaminsky said in his book The Second Health: “They lead to the edge of the grave. ” Kaminsky treated, not pills, injections, droplets, and laser operations, but the natural cleansing of the body from toxic and toxic substances that accumulate and concentrate in the body is actually the cause of all chronic diseases. Vitold Kaminsky was visited in Butch, sick from all over the world. They waited for days to get to him because he wasn't just treating people, he was healing people. He didn't lose. He often treated the sick hopelessly. And I'd like to emphasize what's relevant -- he was treating people from pneumonia without using any chemistry. Regrettably, the name of Kaminsky, the vast majority of today’s Ukrainian doctors, is silent. No mention is made of Witold Vladislavovich of academics, professors, and associate professors, teaching lectures at medical universities. Local doctors continue to prescribe pills, mixtures, and inadvertently indicate that a specific pharmacy should be followed. Therapy merges with business by raising money from ordinary people. 150 years from the birth of the Kaminsky will move us to reflect, and to use his invaluable experience. "Second Health" is his book, it's a Bible for doctors that they unfortunately don't read. However, it is hoped that this book will be revised just after my initiative and with the material help of Yuri Zbitnev, deputy of the First Council, as well as all this year’s veneration of our eminent physician, will bring many doctors to a critical assessment of their practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u181	Yavorovsky Volodymyr Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u182	Vladimir Yavorowski, "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko", city of Kirovograd. I'm going to have an unusual performance today, and I'm so impressed that I haven't heard or heard this speech on this topic. With the political lamentation that we have today, behind that chaos, behind the swine flu and the same level of Ukrainian politics that goes into it, I'd say it's not as quiet as political schizophrenia and what's been going on in this room today. In Ukraine, one beautiful, golden, cultural event came out of a novel by the writer Vasil Sklar, a novel called "The Black Crow". Why I want our voters and the people who listen to us to know about this work. Believe me, I have never read such a force in my Ukrainian literature. The first thing I want to mention is, of course, the unique subject that this Ukrainian writer touched. It's the 20s, it's the last outbreak of fighting for an independent Ukraine, it's the struggle against the Sovietization and Russianization of Ukraine at the same time. This is, I mean, that page that we had completely unexplored, which is completely out of the question. And I would like to point out that this novel has not just filled a great deal of our Ukrainian history, it actually brings Ukraine closer together, consolidates Ukraine, because the post-war feats of soldiers for the independence of the Ukrainian rebel army today are complemented by the fact that East Ukraine has been fighting in the same way literally for the last and against the Russians, and against the Sovietization of Ukrainian life then. The second thing I'd like to point out is the amazing power of art, with great detail, over time, with the brilliant philosophy that I'm in this work, he's just come out, believe me, I couldn't get away from this book, even though I've read it already. Because of this offer to Ukrainians who love our land, read it without fail. Read it! You're going to be an even bigger patriot. You will believe even more in our Ukrainian nation. You will believe that we have strong artistic personalities today. I would like to welcome Vassil Sklar of Ukrainian proseic and his tremendous success and ask the Ukrainian readers once again not to miss this book, please read it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u183	Vetwicki Dmitry Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u184	Dmitri Vetwicki Yulia Timoshenko. Dear colleagues! As a member of the Committee on Budgets, I would like to say why Yulia Timoshenko did not vote in favour of a law that raises social standards today. That's our position. First of all, we, I want to tell our listeners that there's nothing complicated here. In every family, we have our own budget. And we need to understand that if a family or a person wants to spend more money, they need to be made from somewhere, i.e. to complete their family budget. The same is true in the budget of Ukraine. To date, Ukraine's budget is being implemented by 101 per cent, which is actually 100 per cent of the budget. There was no provision for raising social standards in the budget in 2009. Therefore, in order to spend more, we must first adopt the laws that the budget completes, because the pensions and salaries of social workers are paid exclusively from the budget of Ukraine. And this law, which has been voted today, is a very questionable way of filling the budget. And I think maybe it's not, I mean, it's giving people hope again and it's not going to come true or it's not going to happen, it's going to increase the same minimum pensions or not. I believe that the budgetary committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine should make changes to the budget from the following points: first, bills that actually fill the budget and then how to spend it. I have introduced two draft bills to fill the budget, and I hope that they will be considered in the Supreme Council of Ukraine – an increase in excise duty on beer and an increase in excise duty on alcohol. To date, we have 60 copies per liter of beer, i.e. a 30-copier semi-liter beer bottle. I propose double the excise rate, i.e. beer liters will be a bracelet of 20 is a small price, but this will give the budget a billion 850 million bracelets over the year. The second bill to increase excise duty on alcohol from 34 bracelets that we today have excised per litre of pure 100 per cent alcohol to 50 bracelets. An increase of 1/3 would give Ukraine 2 billion bracelets during the year. And it is precisely these 5 billion bracelets of these two laws that can be spent on increasing pensions, paying social workers, and paying salaries. And I would like the Supreme Council to consider real bills that actually fill the budget first, and then we will raise our people's pensions and salaries to the budgeters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u185	Young Andrey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u186	The “For Ukraine! ” MP, Parubi Andry. We find that in Russia today there is a new wave of Ukrainian provocations, the purpose of which is to discredit Ukraine as a state and to further encroach on our sovereignty. Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin, in his discussions with a number of European leaders, devoted time to discrediting Ukraine and discussing its alleged failure to pay for gas. In this regard, Putin believes that problems may arise with the transit of gas to Europe through Ukraine. This is more than a clear indication that Moscow can at any time stop gas supply in Ukraine and therefore transit it. For example, after mentioning the multibillion - dollar fines that Timoshenko has imposed on us, we have to pay for the amount of gas we have not bought. What is the purpose of this blackmail? The answer to this question will be clearer if you look at the recent speech by Patriarch of Moscow Cyril, who suggested that Ukraine should be included in the so-called “Russian world” where Russian language and culture should be further developed. At the same time, in order to understand how this will develop, Russian troops again decided to rock the city of Sevastopol with a rocket, demonstrating power, and were once again stopped by DAI employees. To the extent that the Black Sea fleet in Crimea is generally safe, there are two facts that have taken place in the last days: Sevastopol was shot in the head in his own office by the Chief of Topographic Services of the 810th Marine Corps of the Black Sea Fleet; these days in Sevastopol, the Ukrainian Security Service returned 180 pages of classified documents to the Russians, which were lost by Russian military personnel and handed over to Ukrainian special forces. With all these reports in one picture, it is not difficult to understand that further oppression by official Moscow of anti - Ukrainian hysteria can lead to unpredictable consequences, especially in Crimea, where the same people who lose secret documents are carrying rockets on the streets of our city. The parliamentary group “For Ukraine!” on the other hand, urges the leadership of the State to take adequate measures to protect Ukraine’s sovereignty and to limit the wickedness of the representatives of the neighbouring state on both our land and our information space. We support President Yushchenk's immediate negotiation process to phase out the Black Sea fleet of Russia from Ukraine, because the very fact of his stay is an object of constant provocation and a possible tension in the territory of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u187	The National MP of Alexandrovska is delegating the right to speak to the national deputy of Gordijenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u188	Honourable Chairman, Honourable Citizens of Ukraine, Honorable Shareholders of Ukrnafta! In my presentation in the “Variance” last plenary week from this rostrum, the name of the “Ukranafta” stockholder society was mistakenly used in the context of the infringements by these shareholders of Ukrainian legislation and the loss of Ukraine's state budget. I emphasize that the information given has been misinterpreted with regard to this association and that I will take all measures to correct it in the manner prescribed by law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u189	The national MP, Haydayav, is transferring the right to speak to a member of the delegation.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u190	Vladimir Danilenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Dear voters! Dear Chairman! Deputies! November 13, 1889. The year 2009 marks the 120th anniversary of the birth of the celebrated son of the Ukrainian people, the outstanding Soviet writer Ostap Vishti. In view of the achievements of our worldly humorist fellow countryman, it is certainly necessary to commemorate this date at the national level and to make a number of decisions to perpetuate the memory of the famous artist. Ostap The Supreme is widely known in Ukraine and abroad. Throughout his creative journey, the famous writer performed as a talented, unique artist, whose word penetrated deeply into the layers of folk life and served his unceasing progress. It will be fair to say that the creativity of the humorist was inspired and covered by the great concept of “people”. Ostap Vishna was born in the Chechá district near the village of Grun Zynkowski in Poltavščina, now the Ohtyr district of the Sumsk district, in a large family. On more than one occasion, Ostap Vishna spoke with great warmth about the social calling of the Ukrainian writer, the faithfulness of our art of the truth of life, the love and respect for man’s work. The body of this thought was confirmed by the artist’s artistic work. Ukraine should remember its outstanding fellow countrymen, celebrate their achievements, follow their example, and, as a result, be enriched with new talents. In September of this year, I was approached by a group of Ohtyr Schools No.4 of Ostap Highers, as a national deputy of Ukraine, to assist me in the restoration of the work of the educational institution. I'm going to notice that the building in 1884 is a custom-made building that was built as a home for a teaching family in the middle of the 19th century. The school, which has the name of an outstanding Ukrainian humorist, has a long history and a wide range of problems in connection with the inadequacy of modern school requirements, the absence of sports halls, active rooms, interior toilets, mainly two - story rooms, and others. Significantly, the vast majority of school students live in families with inadequate social standards. Their parents have always supported the school through voluntary contributions, but this is not enough to resolve the vital issues of the educational system. That is why I am addressing the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, the Minister of Education and Science, the Minister of Culture and Tourism of Ukraine, and the National Bank of Ukraine in connection with the arrival on 13 November 2009 of an outstanding date: 120th anniversary of the birth of Ostap the High, the celebrated son of the Ukrainian people, to assist in the capital repair and renovation of the infrastructure of the Ohtyr University I – the third degree, the establishment of the breast of the artist in the territory of the Ohtyr School, the holding of the annual All-Ukrainian School.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u191	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u192	The re-establishment of the All-Ukrainian Festival of Humour "The Supreme Smiles", the introduction of the Jubilee Postage Mark, and the National Bank of Ukraine to decide on the release of the anniversary coin dedicated to the 120th anniversary of the birth of the Ostap Vishti. Please consider my statement to be a parliamentary request.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u193	People's deputy Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u194	I have recently received reports of violations of the requirements of the city legislation of the Epicentrum-K in the construction of trade complexes and office centres of society in Kiev and other regions of Ukraine. One of the talkative examples of disregard for the leadership of this society of requirements for effective legislation is the construction of a trade complex and an office center on Berkovetski Street, 6 in the Shrine district of Kiev. This is a hypermarket of Epicenter building materials. According to available information, the construction project is being compiled in violation of the requirements of article 29 of the Ukrainian Law on Planning and Construction of Areas for the absence of permission for inspection of the Statebuilding Control in Kiev and without even obtaining a positive conclusion from the Integrated State Building Expertise Project. The evidence is supported by a negative conclusion from the environmental safety of the construction project of 5.11.2009 provided by the Ministry of Environmental Protection of Ukraine. Under the specified conditions for the implementation of the Epicenter K of the Berkovetskie Street Trade Complex, 6 in Kiev for the negative conclusion of the State Environmental Expertise and the absence of a positive conclusion of the State Building Expertise creates an increased risk of environmental pollution, especially in the Kijeva District. For unknown reasons, no measures have been taken by the authorities in Kiev to halt illegal construction, as well as to bring society to administrative and economic responsibility under article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on the Responsibility of Enterprises, Institutions and Organizations for Urban Offences, in the form of a fine of 50 per cent of the value of self-employed construction works. The absence of a proper response by authorized government authorities has led to the introduction by the society of a permanent practice of self - construction of its own commercial centres. One such example may be the construction of a T.O.C. shopping centre in Kharkiv, which, according to environmental research, has not been properly agreed upon directly on the site of the underground ammonia pipeline system. This dangerous location of the TU “Epicenter K” building is a source of potential environmental danger and a threat of poisoning for both staff and visitors to the specified trading centre. In the light of what I have set out, I appeal to the Attorney General and Minister for Regional Development and Construction of Kuibida, and I ask you to consider this to be a parliamentary request, to take urgent steps to halt the illegal construction of the Epicenter K of the Berkovetskie Street Trade Center, 6 in the Svętoszyń district of Kiev, and to verify the availability of necessary permits during the construction of this company's trading centres in other cities of the country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u195	Thank you, Oleg Valeriovich. Miroshenko Yuri Romanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u196	Dear voters, dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. Before I begin, I would like to welcome all the Chinese, all the guests of Kiev, all the Ukrainians, because today is Kiev’s Day of Deliverance. In my view, this is a symbolic date, since at a time when we were united, when our efforts were to overcome problems, obstacles, enemies, opponents, we always had a victory. And then, when we have strife, when we fight, we don't hear and we oppose each other, we certainly have negative consequences, as is seen, unfortunately, lately. As a lawyer, I would like to pay attention, first of all, to our electorate and our law enforcement agencies, to some of the challenges and some of the dangers that as a lawyer make me talk about this and I would like us to address appropriate parliamentary appeals and parliamentary questions about issues such as the refusal of individual ministers to comply with Ukraine's laws. Yesterday I personally heard a statement by the Minister of Labour and Social Policy that the law passed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on raising social standards, the Cabinet of Ministers, in particular, would not execute the Ministry. This is, in my opinion, a threat to Ukrainian statehood, because when laws are implemented selectively or not at all, we will lose the entire legal system, we will lose order and order, we will lose statehood. Whether the laws adopted by the only legislative body in Ukraine, the Supreme Council, are acceptable or not, they must be enforced. The Cabinet of Ministers has the right to appeal to the Constitutional Court, to challenge this law and, in the event of a decision being made in its own favour, to stop its implementation only in that case. We're today. when I say "we," we're talking about the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we've given the possibility and the Cabinet of Ministers to redistribute the revenue of the State Budget in a way where there are specific sources of funding for the Law on raising social standards. What's strange to me is that the faction, which is the government, did not vote in favour of this bill. And another, in my opinion, is a disturbing news coming from Kabina. It's that the Kabmin regulations are very often replaced by laws, contrary to the Constitution. This is also a subject, in my view, of a very careful study by law enforcement authorities. I'm also asking the Attorney General's Office, and other bodies, and parliamentary and extra-parliamentary controls, to give us at least a legal assessment of such actions, and as a maximum, to remove unconstitutional and illegal violations.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u197	Shershun Mikola Hartonovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u198	Mikola Shershun "Block Lithuania". Dear Chief! Dear voters! During Ukraine’s years of independence, farming was seen as a factor in saving agricultural production. But, oddly enough, instead of contributing to its development, it is an effort to completely destroy agriculture. Surely I am not the only national MP to receive numerous appeals from peasants, farmers, and landowners. All of them are crying for help, and as quickly as possible to accept a clear, transparent legislative base. Because the confusion in legislation often draws many of them to criminal responsibility for cases that they do not even understand. Or when wrong actions have been committed against the farmers themselves, and when justice cannot be restored again. That's why they write to: the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Secretary of the President, to the Cabinet of Ministers, asking to defend their legal rights. People’s deputies are also writing to appeal to farmers and landowners. And in return, what? Some of the letters. And as a result of the Association of Farmers and Private Landowners of Ukraine, there are currently some 1,500 criminal cases involving farmers. And the solution has been going on for quite some time. As an example, the farmer of the Dnipropetrov district of the Novomoskow district of Heivoron, Anatoly Ivanovich, suffered a gang attack and was injured. In addition, attacks were collected from a field belonging to the Gaveronian harvest of corn and sunflower. It would seem to be a forceful fact. Of course, they suffered, turned to local law enforcement authorities, and in November of that year a criminal case was opened. For two years, investigations were conducted. The criminal case closed, and it opened. The petitioner appealed to various law enforcement agencies, to the President’s Secretariat, too, where, by the way, the case was taken under control. Unfortunately, the matter is still pending. The attackers are out on the loose, and the complainant can't even get information from the prosecutor’s office about the status of the case. And that's not the only example, there's a lot of them. Why are our workers in the village, not protected at all by various forms of property? Why can we do anything about them and remain unpunished? Because individual officials of different levels have long since been employed in the legislative field. And they live by the rule: “Your hand is the ruler.” So, dear colleagues, I am addressing you, we need to restore the supervisory functions of the Supreme Council. We should not receive formal receipts but rather receive specific answers from responsible persons regarding a particular problem. And periodically listen here, in this room, to the heads of ministries and to the department about how they respond to our requests and questions. And yet, as of today, there have been no test systems in the Plain region. This alerts and prompts us to think.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u199	Finish up. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u200	Thank you. It comes to mind that the terrible problem of the flu pandemic is just talking. So the Lithuanian bloc in the Supreme Council demands that the government, its structures move from words to immediate action to stop this terrible disaster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u201	Silent Pavel Mikhailovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u202	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! Before November 9th, when Ukraine celebrates the Day of Ukrainian Writing and Language, I want to highlight such things as the state of the Ukrainian language. Because he is in an independent Ukraine today, he is critical. And it testifies to the incompetent political elites today to recognize the meaning of language as a consolidating factor in strong Ukraine. Ignoring all the norms of the International Convention and the Charter on Culture and Language, which emphasize the preservation of the protection of the national and cultural characteristics of peoples and nations of all countries, ignoring the Constitution of Ukraine and pandering to the historic right of the Ukrainian people to develop Ukrainian language and culture, today's politicians have, directly or indirectly, preserved the semi-colonial state of Ukrainian language, plunging the ideologies of reactionary Russian philosophy, which have become the forpost of the south-eastern regions. In these areas, there is an unprecedented anti-constitutional activity in which the introduction of Russian as a national language functions as an official language of social and political life contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine. In fact, millions of funds are being allocated from local budgets to raise their social language. Speculation of bilinguality, which is already a distinct coin before the election, since the only national language is the primary sign and the most important condition of the nation’s existence, both ethnic and political, as well as the guarantee of its full and fruitful participation in the spiritual life of mankind and its own progressive development. It takes time to create a normative base, and this requires the adoption of two bills that are still registered last year. It is necessary to channel the right amount of budget for the production of Ukrainian books, the production and production of Ukrainian television shows, artistic films on the heroic past of the Ukrainian people, children’s television cartoons, artistic films for children and youth, and to promote the production of Ukrainian films that have already been taken, and to expand the practice of duplicating Ukrainian films. And I'm asking millions of Ukrainians today who claim to be president, who will stand up for the national position of Ukrainian language in all areas of its use, education, science, culture, art, life, who will remember that the full restoration of Ukrainian language depends on the national renewal of all the deepest creative, building and cultural forces of the Ukrainian people to realize the consolidating role in Ukraine. Who will stop the aggressive Russian-speaking expansion in the information space in the bookcase, on the movies and on the television screens. Protect the language of the people, preserve the independence of the state!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u203	Kulczynski Mikola Georgievich
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u204	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! Dear voters! With the coming to power of the city of Poltava, BUTU’s “lord” of Matkovský Poltava quickly acquires features of the famous city of Głupov, which is dominated by smugness and takes into account the specificity of Poltava as well as self-stupid Ukrainianophobics. There is in Poltava letter No. 1 of Kotlarevski's name one of the best secondary educational institutions in the city. He was well - known among the Poles for his persistent education and teaching work of a fine teaching team. Recently, starting on October 9, from the meeting of the deputy city chief from the humanitarian issues of Rusin, and following the condition of Corporal Matkowski's soul with the director of the class, a brutal discussion began on Mrs. Vergal's school principal and teacher of the German language, Mrs. Kirpotina, and in fact on the whole group, his pedagogical practice, aimed not only at the students' deep learning and training. civil and patriotic costs. The latter was the cause of a brutal execution, both by the director and by the teacher. For the mayor of Samodur Matkowski, coming out of his cosmomol past, longed, like all the feldfebels of the unimaginable Russian Empire, that all things should be kept silent in Poltava on all tongues, for there is grace. And Mrs. Kirpotin's German teacher at such a mood and Mr. Matkowski dared to read to the students on every Monday's policy to discuss an article from “the Ukraine of the Young” “There is no Christ on them” that referred to the treatment of feldfebels and Corporals in the Poltava Mishquikonkam to monuments by Ukrainian heroes. The article is usually critical. On October 29, the city’s own head arrives with its 10 - man scroll and displays a recording of the political information. She's asking the teacher to write a release application, and otherwise, the prosecutor's office will take care of it. The director of this mayor's appearance gets a stroke in the hospital, the collective is demoralized, intimidated. MISCELLANEOUS gives the order for the liberation of Kirpothina — just think! - for committing an immoral act. I call on the Ministry of Education to intervene immediately. Re-establishing Kirpotin at work. I'm calling on the Attorney General's Office and the Security Service to start an investigation into the illegal interrogation of employees by the number one, in the Poltava City List number one, of Kotlarevski's name. And finally. External testing results in the German-speaking region of Poltava in June 2009, which characterize the professional level of Mrs. Kirpotino: number of participants 46, number 1-7. Average score by area is 6.88, by Poltava is 7.27, 1 by 8.3. Six students out of seven are Mrs. Kerpotina's students. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-06-m0.u205	Dear colleagues, the morning plenary meeting is closed. The next plenary session will begin on November 17 at 10 a.m. Good luck.
