ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:00:14]] Cards were registered in the 418 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the National Deputy of Ukraine Klimenko Alexandr Ivanovich. Let us welcome our colleague, wish him health and success in all his affairs. Dear colleagues, I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the extraordinary plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 6 April 2009. 10 questions on the agenda have been considered: one law and 20 regulations have been passed, one bill and one draft decree have been rejected, and four laws have been rejected by the President of Ukraine, i.e. the veto of the President of Ukraine has not been overtaken by these laws. Honorable national deputies, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules, are given 30 minutes on Tuesday for statements by authorized factions with proposals, statements, and messages. I'd like the factions to sign up for the performance. It's a recording. I'd like you to put on the board the name of the national MPs who signed up. Vladimir Bondarenko, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. Who? Ivan Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u2	Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u3	Please, Ivan Kirilenko, the faction of "The Yulia Tymoshenko". Prepare a representative of “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u4	Dear Head, colleagues, dear voters! First. Yesterday’s Conciliation Council gave a good sign for all of Ukraine: a country’s politics in these difficult conditions can still contain its political ambitions and work for the country. We agreed that the Anti-Crist Program would not be purely governmental, but would become a joint acquisition of both opposition and coalition and government. The other one. We also need to agree on one more thing, namely, colleagues, to impose a moratorium on excessive politics, which is based on the continuous coercion and oppression of the hysteria around the temporary elections of Parliament itself. Once again, there is no legal, political, or moral basis for their conduct. It's even hard to imagine that a country in these extraordinary conditions will be left essentially paralyzed for at least six months: the President in the election, the entire government in the election, the Supreme Council in the castle. And what can wait for the country after such a bitter election? Ending economics and complete ruins. There will be no winners. The people will be defeated, the state will lose. Third. We are able to unite against adversity, just as the politicians of all education are now doing. And the potential in an active parliament is for that. The latest work results confirm this. In general, some 40 anti-crisis bills have already been passed by the government, coalition, and opposition. Of these, 22 were considered and accepted. There are 12 more urgent reviews this week. They have no pressure on citizens or an increase in tax pressure on a transparent working economy. Four. I want to point out that the government does not sit around with its hands folded, but it has already acted and acted adequately and solves the most painful problems. So far, the state budget for the 1st quarter has been implemented, and the income of the Pension Fund has certainly been exceeded. Thanks to the Supreme Council's adoption of a number of anti-crisis bills, the IMF is renewing its cooperation with Ukraine, and we can count on further assistance from the international community. The question is not even in money, but in confidence in Ukraine, in its ability to pay according to its obligations, to be a capable partner. And we all see how it responds positively to this kind of joint action, both the economy and the financial market. These trends need to be fixed, with a number of laws being passed today. Fifth. The government guarantees these difficult conditions to protect pensioners, disabled persons, many child mothers, students, doctors, and teachers. All social benefits, pensions, budget salaries, drug subsidies and housing services are financed and financed by 100 percent. Once again, the government has not anticipated or anticipated an increase in retirement age and is not planning to abolish pensions for working pensioners, and is doing everything to preserve the stability of housing and utility tariffs and food prices. And the results of this work you know. Inflation in Ukraine is much smaller than it was last year and there are no preconditions for price hikes. In the country, six months ’ supply of bread, bread, bread, sugar, oil, and pasta are available. Six. By the way, the agrarian sector is the only sector that has increased by 1 quarter in Ukraine, and this is convincingly evidence that the APC is working in a stable way and is becoming the main sector of the Ukrainian economy. Let me remind you, it is thanks to the government and the entire composition of Parliament that our agriculture has unique preferences, which have been dreamed of by several generations of peasants. Fixed tax forever, VAT benefits forever. In general, the tax burden on the village is three times lower than in other areas. Agrarian business can plan its future peacefully, and it's already doing it today because the pace of spring work is much higher than it was last year. The government is actively working to solve the problem of housing construction, extensive road renewal. Real actions have also begun to increase the energy efficiency of the economy, including the replacement of imported energy by alternative sources of energy. Today, an appropriate bill is under consideration, and we look forward to its backing. Our support is certainly a national industry. The Minister’s office is committed and supports the domestic manufacturer, who in turn ensures that jobs and wages are preserved. And this is the main social objective of the government's anti-crisis package. Dear colleagues, and the last. The failure to make the decisions involved today has had tremendous consequences, and the consolidation of the efforts of all branches of government, of all political forces, is of exceptional importance. We have both the chance and the opportunity to face the challenges together, because we are able to realize that the gap is ahead if we do not find ways out together. For the sake of the state, we must understand. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u5	Anatoly Stepanovich Gricenko, faction “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense”. Mikola Janović Azarov will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u6	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Anatoly Griesenko, faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. I've never taken a word for the faction, but right now I'd like to use this time to draw attention to three important issues that concern the Armed Forces. The middle of April. So far, two key issues have not been resolved, and their resolution depends on the President as the High Commander of the Armed Forces. Question one: the number of armed forces in the current year. It is quite obvious that such a bill would have to be introduced in December of last year, so that every military, every member of the Ministry of Defence, members of the government and, in fact, the President himself, as well as the people's deputies, would know which army the Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces wants to see. This document is not yet available, it brings disorder to the head, to planning, to financial and material security. Therefore, the proposal to the President insists that this document be submitted without delay. The second question. In mid-April, no bill has been tabled so far, which can only be passed by the President, on the admission of foreign troops to participate in military training in Ukraine. Given the schedule of work of the Supreme Council, it is clear that Parliament will only be able to consider it at the end of May under these conditions, subject to the delay of the President. This is what I think is a political mistake -- the delay in adopting such a law, with its introduction and the day before the election, is only the creation of conflict zones. Some requests have already been made from local councils that suggest that they refuse military training in their territory. It's quite obvious that these are still the first signals. But they could have been avoided by early work since December of last year. And the third question. Our committee has already begun to receive calls from members of the officers, from the military about why we are having a military parade on Independence Day this year. People get upset, they think it's timeless, they think that under today's crisis, we need to keep the army of combat training, not take some ritual demonstration action on the day of independence. We're studying this question right now. The president had not yet made the final decision, but he had only sounded his wish: to have a parade when he was working in the Hmelnick garrison. I would forgive the President, not make decisions about a military parade, because that would be taken negatively, in my opinion, both in the armed forces and in society. There are more important tasks that need to be done for the state and for the army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u7	Thank you. Mikola Janović Azarov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Sergey Greenewecki will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u8	Dear Vladimir Mihajlović, distinguished people's deputies, again, unfortunately, we face an attempt to cynically deceive our parliamentary partners, the opposition in the face of the Party of the Regions. Attempts to extract so-called laws relating to the acquisition of the IMF tranche. We have offered our partners, without waiting for them, an anti-crisis programme, a realistic budget, our vision of today's situation, our projections, our activities and the requirements of the anti-crisis programme and the anti-crisis budget. The partners got a break for the study. Eight months of crisis taught them nothing. Well, we gave them that time. What's going on? And there's been another attempt to deceive us. What is the interest of the Government of Timoshenko in this situation? Only one: at any cost to obtain the credit of the International Monetary Fund. As a result, instead of realistic budget changes, which would include social protection measures, support for the real sector, we see so-called changes, the only objective of which is to legitimize the outrage, the non-profits that are taking place in the oil and gas system. All of it! Moreover, there is nothing more behind this law. The second bill is, in fact, to break the system of simplified taxation. And the third bill is actually to limit our people's right to a pension. Can the Party of the Regions go and close its eyes on the adoption of these bills? Of course not. And here Ivan Grigorievich Kirilenko, speaking, again tried to mislead us and the entire Ukrainian people. Ivan Grigoryevich, here is the text of an official memorandum with the International Monetary Fund. I read the original language. “Additional increases in excise duties and assemblies, cancellation of VAT exemption, higher price for gas, and adoption of laws aimed at improving the financial situation of the Pension Fund. We will adopt a pension reform that will ensure the average and long-term stability of the pension system, which can foresee a gradual increase in retirement age, as well as the introduction of special pensions in line with the general system formula.” This reform, Ivan Grigorovich, will be implemented at the latest by the end of December 2009. "We will adjust gas prices according to their value in the world market. As agreed by the programme, we will put in place a price adjustment mechanism that will provide by mid-2010 for the cancellation of subsidies and the reduction of subsidies twice for the payment of gas to the population." That's what you want to go through. You want to deceive both the Ukrainian people and the International Monetary Fund. Because according to your statements, you're not going to do that. We are very responsible for our cooperation with the International Monetary Fund. We believe it is necessary to cooperate with him, but under other conditions, which will provide for the channelling of funds to the real economy, rather than for private corporations and firms to account for their foreign exchange obligations to Western banks through public credit. Is that what you're mostly saving for? Enough to see, Ivan Grigoryevich, what you're saying is that the budget was supposed to have been implemented in the first quarter only at the cost of correction and other contraptions. And the adjustment was almost 2 billion bracelets. You have been able to fictitiously demonstrate the implementation of the budget, the so-called implementation. You're saying your inflation is lower. So in just three months, we have six months.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u9	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u10	Six per cent in just three months is a minimum of 25 per cent in the annual measurement. Let's stop deceiving each other, we offered you, we set up your shoulder, you want to work on the program -- take our demands. Here's the actual program. But under such conditions, the Party of the Regions has no right to cooperate.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u11	Thank you. Mikola Haritonovich Shershun, Lithuanian Block faction. Next is Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u12	Mikola Shershun, Block Lithuania. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! In my statement, I want us all to land a little bit, so the faction of the Block of Lithuania draws your attention, the leaders of the state, to an extremely acute problem, to diagnostics and to the prevention of cancer. The World Health Organization has long been alarmed, with 12 million oncologically ill people worldwide each year. In Ukraine, 165 thousand new cases of disease are reported each year. As a result, about 40 percent of patients die within one year after diagnosis. For our nation, the problem of cancer diagnosis is also compounded by a social and environmental situation, primarily related to the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. Statistics show an increase in thyroid cancer among children whose parents received their radiation dose in 86. Today, there are more than 16,000 patients in the Ravenna district cancer dispenser alone. Hundreds of petitions were written by national deputies from the Plainsland region, as well as the district’s leadership, asking for the addition of the oncodispenser. The promise of funding for the construction was made by the Prime Minister and the President, but it is still a deaf wall. Perhaps even today they will hear and take steps to meet people who are suffering from this terrible disease. In all the regions affected by the impact of the accident at CHAES, cancer is becoming increasingly impressive to children. Here's one of the fresh facts. The six - year - old son of the village of Mirne Kostopil district of Vladimir Gavriluk was diagnosed with acute leukosis. The boy needs a bone marrow transplant operation in Germany, the cost of such an operation as a minimum, 220,000 euros, and similar situations for hundreds. In the first place among cancers is cancer of the gastrointestinal tract. The situation would be extremely different if oncosa were to be detected in a timely manner, which is why one of the first in Ukraine began to develop and implement a programme for early detection of oesophageal changes and early stages of the oncopathological organs of the ventricular tract. In reference to me as a national deputy, the chief endoscopicist in the Yuri Moklik area begs for support in the implementation of this program, since it is in the Plains region that up to 70 percent of the patients die of stomach cancer within a year of diagnosis. The program provides a number of organizational measures to identify early cancer patients. However, in order to implement these measures, a district hospital needs a modern video-endoscopic device that can be used in a timely manner to detect and treat the disease successfully and, in turn, to obtain the equipment, it needs to be costed. And the state must find them, for the first step to reducing the level of cancer is its early diagnosis. The cost of early oncosa diagnostics can save more than one person’s life. It should be pointed out that this will also significantly reduce the cost of treatment of an active form of cancer, which costs tens and hundreds of thousands of dollars per person, is 25-30 times more expensive than treatment in the early stages of the disease. The Lithuanian Bloc emphasizes the long-standing need for a state-wide program of prevention, diagnosis and treatment of cancers. First of all, we need to ensure adequate and sufficient funding for this program. Today, this is to be one of the priorities of the Cabinet of Ministers and the Ministry of Profiles. By the way, a major step here can be the support of the Supreme Council, initiated by a representative of the Lithuanian Block, our colleague of the Zarubinian Diagnostic Prevention and Treatment Bill, which was approved in January of this year's first reading. I sincerely hope that there are no indifferent people in this room. So thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u13	Thank you. Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, a faction of Communists, is invited to the presentation.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u14	Respectable citizens of Ukraine! Dear colleagues! Today, April 14, the Supreme Council was to consider and adopt an anti - crisis program. How many conversations were there, how many speculations around it. But the authorities in conspiracies with a powerful business have shown once again that they are not interested in overcoming the crisis in the interests of people and the state, but they are doing everything they can to put the burden on the shoulders of ordinary citizens workers and to destroy small and medium-sized businesses and then to take it into their own hands. The next plenary week, I'm paying attention, dear colleagues! – will take place on May 12th, which is a month away from making very responsible and necessary decisions. And the reason for this is that once again, this conspiracy, this agreement in connection with the next issue of getting the International Monetary Fund tranche. And that's what interested oligarchs who say otherwise. Conclusion. There are declarations, and specifically they don't have an anti-crisis program and they can't. I remind you once again that we have offered a specific anti-crisis program, but representatives of a powerful business don't want to accept it. Because there's a very different stone to this program of its financial recovery. But not at the expense of choosing people, but at the expense of public funding for strategically important enterprises and strict control over the use of budgetary resources. We have proposed to approve in the Supreme Council a list of enterprises that would have direct credit to Nazbank and commercial banks at a minimum or zero rate. We have insisted and passed a responsible bill to reduce the credit rate to 3-5 percent of the annual. It is not possible to save your own economy, it is impossible to create a powerful scientific and industrial base when commercial banks “rush” out of the real skin manufacturer. At the same time, and this is very important, the Company has introduced a bill proposing a moratorium on the alienation of debtors' assets during the anti-crisis period. You can't throw people out on the street saving the bankrupt bankers. We insist that all the currency loans could be returned to the purse at the rate they took, i.e. the bank loan at $5 a dollar, the loan is also paid at $5 a dollar. Next. We insist on eliminating the value added tax and replacing it with the circulation tax. This will remove the killer's tax burden both from the manufacturer and from the consumer. We insist on establishing a state monopoly on the production and sale of tobacco and vodka products, which is the left-hand side of the budget. And raising excises is putting holes in our people's pockets, because the whole excise is going to go at a price, not by those who own this business, but by the consumer. In those poverty where nationalists and oligarchs have driven people away, they will not be able to pay less and use vodka. So any call that the authorities say cares about the health of the nation is insolent blasphemy. We are convinced that the next international debt to which the President and the oligarchs are involved is a crime not only before today but also before future generations, because it will be paid for by a simple people, a simple worker, a teacher, a doctor. And IMF money, the World Bank and other foreign inflows of “hands that didn't steal” will aim to partially account for previous debts, that is, over $100 billion. And practically our common people will pay for it. In connection with these people, they hang noodles on their ears about IMF money as a panacea and as if it were the only way to save Ukraine’s economy. In doing so, authorities and oligarchs force people to love banks, don't return deposits to investors, create semi-criminal debt-absorbing structures called collectors' offices, take property, work, housing, and continue teaching children. With the support of the Ministry of Justice, banks have created collectors' offices, in fact, which are engaged in racketeering the recovery of loans that citizens have taken and for reasons beyond their control cannot recover. I want to ask you, what do we do to the investors that the bank owed? Who will protect their interests? Maybe we should create special units from bank owners to dissipate debts from banks and bankers. And I think it's about time, so it's time. I'd like to have another problem with the humanitarian and read you one decision, Your Honor. I have been ordered by the Institute of Innovation Technology and the content of the education of the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine, which I quote: “The use of Ukrainian and other languages in the premises of the Institute as a means of communication is prohibited.” I mean, people.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u15	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u16	One phrase. I emphasize once again, Your Honor, that people are not allowed to speak at all in Russian or in any other language in which they want to communicate. Pay attention! Economic issues need to be resolved, and the cave hills are once again sown with grains of dissipation, eating generations, planting Nazism and xenophobia, leading professional parties, distinguishing the sacred concept of patriotism with hateful nationalism. We have to put an end to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u17	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the factions are over. Regarding the suggestions made in the presentations, I ask you to prepare appropriate assignments. Honorable National MPs. Just a minute. Ivan Kirilenko, a replica. His name was mentioned in the speech by Mikola Janovich Azarov. Please, one minute, a line.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u18	Dear Head, dear colleagues, dear Mikola Janovich! Your speech was built all the time on my behalf. Unfortunately, you weren't on the Conciliation Council yesterday when, in fact, all the political parties agreed that we would spend this week together, and the head of the Supreme Council insisted and proposed this particular mode of work for this week. Unfortunately, you were gone, perhaps you did not hear that healthy voice of mind. And with regard to the IMF, Mikola Janović, you know very well what conservative structure and its requirements have been stable for decades. And you signed these requirements, and you signed them, and then, for three years, when social pay was frozen, and the hall indignantly shouted, "What are you doing, you're from that rostrum then, as the first vice-premier, a beautiful gesture made and said the right words, which you can't pass on. That's why we're stressing again. Let's work, colleagues, without politics for the country, not for any corporate interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u19	Dear colleagues, the meeting schedule for April 14 is set, agreed, you have it. We need, honourable colleagues, to take note of the proposals for the elimination of disagreements in the text of the adopted Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the activities of the State Service for Special Communications and Protection of Information. Appropriate clarifications are given to you. That is why I am putting to the vote, please note, the adoption of clarifications to the text of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Legislative Acts on the Activities of the State Service for Special Communications and Protection of Information. Please vote. [[10:30:06]] For 394 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I ask your support for such an offer. Since we have an extremely tense working week, and considering the fact that the next plenary meeting under the current conditions is only going to be held on May 12th, I'm asking your support to look at the bills in the first reading by the reduced procedure, because there are a lot of them. Please support this proposal. [[10:30:54]] For-198 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we need to turn it on right now – pay attention! - for the day, please! – to include in the agenda and in case of support a decision on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for 2009 and certain other laws of Ukraine on urgent measures to ensure Ukraine's energy security. [[Registration number 4266]] May I have your attention, please? I am betting on the vote on the inclusion in the agenda of the bill of registration number 4266. Please vote. [[10:31:58]] For 204 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 0, “Club of Timoshenko”-154, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense”-30, Communist faction – 0, “Block of Lithuania” – 20. Dear colleagues, you will conduct consultations. For now, let's move on. I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's pension insurance laws. Registration number, I think, 3521. Please vote for inclusion in the agenda. Please vote. [[10:33:00]] For-200 The decision is not taken. In factions, please show: Region Party – 0, “Club of Timoshenko”-154, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” – 27, Communist faction – 0, “Block of Lithuania” – 19. I would like to vote on the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act "On mandatory public pension insurance". [[on the recalculation of pensions for working retirees]] Registration number 4217. Please vote. [[10:33:53]] For 208 The decision is not taken. The factions? Please. Region Party – 0, Timoshenko Yulia Block – 153, Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense – 35, Communists – 0, Litvina Block – 20. Well, that's the outcome of yesterday's meeting, where the assurance was that a decision should be made in the interests of the country. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes. What do you want to do next? Please take 1 minute from the factions. Express your point of view. Please give us "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense." Please, who's going to perform? Is there a Michela Martinenko? Mikola Martinenko microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u20	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues! I'd like to ask you to understand in the hall about voting on these bills. I think that all national MPs, without exception, understand the consequences of adopting or rejecting these laws. And I don't understand those who don't vote when first to stabilize the economic situation we have to adopt a law with you that opens the way to cooperation with international financial institutions, otherwise the stability of the financial system will not be and, as a result, will not raise the economy on those issues, including the anti-crisis that we are talking about very much in the hall. So I'd like to think again about the results of the voting that just took place in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u21	Who will act? Please, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u22	Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Ukrainian citizens should be aware of what is currently happening in the hall. There are currently no bills that allow the Pension Fund to be balanced in order for people to get pensions on time and on a predictable scale. “The Naftogaz of Ukraine”, the government proposes to give support to “Naftogaz” 7 billion because of the theft of “Rosukre Energo” and so on. And today, the government, at the expense of the budget money, has to hit the holes in Naftogazu. And if you don't give Naftogazu money, that means double or triple the cost of gas for the population. These are the consequences of not voting for the bill. It's about the Pension Fund. One-and-a-half million people in the so-called small business pay six dollars to the Pension Fund and then come to the Supreme Council at 60 years of age and say, "Give us a decent pension." What's to be given? Why should so - called small business be subsidized by teachers, doctors, miners, colporteurs, and so forth? What the country needs is a small business that can't afford 200 bucks.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u23	Finish up, please. Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u24	We propose to announce a recess and discuss this issue, because yesterday, as Vladimir Mikhailovich rightly said, we agreed that we would adopt anti-crisis laws, and today we are not working, and we are moving the country further into crisis. And language.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u25	Thank you. Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u26	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! You know, the content of these bills can be argued with. I'd like to pay attention now not to the meaningful ingredient, but to the moral component. I saw the President of Ukraine's direct address to all the factions on every channel yesterday. Obviously that was true of those people who are oriented towards the President of Ukraine, well, anyway, in public space they say, to vote in favour of these 3 bills, that it's not a better, it's not an ideal option, but it's a necessary option. At this point, I don't understand what's going on: either no one listens to him anymore, even those who say they're in his party, or it's just hypocrisy when calls are made to the public, and there are actually other teams. I just don't understand what's going on in this room right now. So I think we should, in fact, announce a break, hold consultations and sort it out. Perhaps we should go to the President for whom his appeal was actually addressed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u27	Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov, faction of the Party of the Regions
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u28	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I, frankly. I don't understand what we're talking about. You're trying to push something that's not inflatable. Therefore, I would like to request that we act in accordance with our Rules and move forward in order of action. Because today's business is over. You're trying to cover up the IMF's workload on business. In fact, we were impressed by one of the leaders of BUT who said it was Nikolai Vladimirovich Tomenko, who is on the phone. So he said two days ago: “Will there be life after the IMF?” We must answer this question first for Ukraine, rather than pedal some questionable laws that have led the IMF to fulfil its corporate obligations to other countries through Ukraine. I would therefore like to work on the Rules and move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u29	Thank you. Peter Stepanovich Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u30	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, I am also addressing the Government and the Pension Fund of Ukraine. I'm in which I call, let's work and conduct a dialogue honestly. Why am I talking about this? Because when it comes to coming to the Pension Fund's budget, the government assures us that it's okay. The representatives of the Pension Fund’s government claim that we are collecting contributions with a renegotiation of the plan. This is a public position, and on the other hand, a bill is submitted to the Supreme Council to go into the pockets of pensioners for 6 billion. On the other hand, it is referred to the structure of the Pension Fund, according to which pensioners are paid an average pension salary for 2007. These bills plan to go into the pocket for 3 billion. It's true: what comes from microphones or what's given in.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u31	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to take your jobs, because there are going to be a lot of problems again. Dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts on these bills. I'd be the only one. So, what's the break? If there are no results, what can be a break? The only thing I'd like to ask is that we don't blame each other, but we follow the agreements reached at the Conciliation Council. Here I was recommended and repeated by the classics: something not to stick where it doesn't stick, so I'd like to say, dear colleagues, I can't keep track of your agreements that you're reaching. So you listen to the program, you don't listen to the program. So let's put it this way: the Supreme Council didn't support it, we'll keep working. During the break at 12 o'clock, there was a meeting of the Conciliation Council. We're going to need a number of votes to look at, we're going to go back to looking at these bills. Is there no objection? Let's have a meeting of the Conciliation Council at 12 o'clock. And I invite the faction leaders to the Conciliation Council. The draft Law on State Registration of Civil Status Acts, Registration Number 2673, Reporter - Justice Minister Onischuk Mikola Vasilovich, co-rapporteur - Head of the Committee on Legal Policy, Yuri Romanovic Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u32	Your Honour, Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! The Ukrainian government is introducing a draft Civil Status Act for your consideration. You know that today, according to the Civil Code and the Family Code of Ukraine, the birth of a child, the marriage, and all the other powers that apply to acts of civil status of Ukrainian citizens are subject to national registration. However, the legislation that regulates these relations is sometimes outdated, in other cases it is concentrated in different legal acts of different legal forces, and then there is an urgent need at the legislative level to regulate the complexity of relations relating to the registration of civil status acts. In particular, the bill provides for the establishment of a state registration of the birth of a natural person and his or her origin, marriage, dissolution of marriage, change of name and death; the order of amendments and additions to the civil status records and their renewal and cancellation; the establishment of a system of civil registration bodies, as well as the legal and organizational principles for the activities of civil registration bodies. The point is that the entire set of relationships that relate to individuals and fundamental rights associated with acts of civil status, namely, directly determining the circle of civil, administrative, family and other relations, should be governed directly by the law of Ukraine. The adoption of the law does not require additional spending from the State budget and will improve the level of legal regulation of the relationship. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u33	Thank you, Mikola Vasilovich. Have a seat, please. Yuri Romanovich Miroshnichenko Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u34	Dear voters, dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. I would like to draw the attention of all the national MPs to the bill that we are currently considering. Many of the issues that have a direct impact on people’s lives today do not require budget changes, do not require any additional burdens, do not cause political contradictions, but organise the normal, permanent and daily lives of our citizens. This bill is one of those laws, because it organizes a civil registration system, starting with the birth of a child, when we go to register it, when we get married, when we register changes in our own, for example, surnames, surnames and so on, and introductions. and sorting those entries that exist. That is to say, this bill brings about a system of things that is becoming increasingly influential and important today, because these are legal and legal issues. On our Committee of Legal Policy, we have considered this bill, and we recommend it to the Supreme Council to adopt it as a basis in the first reading. We also referred to the Supreme Council Law Institute and to the Institute of State and the right of the name of the Korean. These two respected experts also recommend that this bill be adopted, on the basis of a second reading, to improve it, as well as our scientific expertise. Dear colleagues! I think this bill could actually get over 300 votes, because it's not politicized, it's ready to go into second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u35	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u36	And help citizens to settle another aspect of their lives in such a way that it does not cause complications. Thank you, please, for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u37	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Please register for the discussion of the draft Civil Status Act. There's a recording of the performance, please put the names of the national MPs who are registered on the board. Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, microphone, please, from the rostrum, you can either use the microphone as you prefer.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u38	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues! The Communist faction has identified and voted in favour of this project in the first reading. We're here today to simplify and improve all those procedures that have a bearing on the registration of civilian acts. But I would like to encourage us to look at the following problems that many of our citizens face, especially in the village, these problems, first of all, are the problem of inheritance and inheritance. What's happening today is that people in these conditions, when in the village, practically rent for pie is very small, when there's no work, young people are out of work, when they make an inheritance, it's very and very difficult for our citizens, first. Second, they've already paid for it when they were building their own house, when they were buying construction materials and stuff, and today they're forcing all citizens to pay again and depending on the market value they set for today. And we're talking to the Ministry of Justice today, which is an urgent way of simplifying this procedure, because a lot of paper has to be spent to form everything and practically reduce it to minimum payments when you make this procedure an inheritance, that's the first time. Secondly, Mikola Vasilovich, as Minister, I don't think the Ministry of Justice has the right to support and protect bankers today when you let them build collector structures, is the semi-criminal structures of the debt-absorbing of those who took credit. And today you're not allowing the depositors to be protected, and today they're not getting those deposits back. So I think we need to solve these issues in the first place today.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u39	Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u40	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. Ladies and gentlemen, we are invited to adopt a law on the state registration of civil status shares, which is actually a system bill. Systemic, because the last time you and I made any changes, there was a law that was passed in 93 on civil registration agencies, where we only made minor changes in 2002. We did not make any changes there. This makes it appropriate to amend both the Civil Code of Ukraine and the Family Code of Ukraine, the Civil Procedure Code of Ukraine, the Notaryate Act, which is proposed here. And what I want to point out is that it's very important, because recently, I had to go to Raven to follow the commission of the Committee in connection with the failure of several judges to verify the activities of the city court in Ravenna, and I was shocked by what I saw and wanted to share with you the impressions. There's no data in the information sources, people can't get acquainted with a two-to-three-year decision. Therefore, the law provides that the State Register of Civil Status Acts is maintained and that state register is kept in electronic media. It is only now that a loved one should have access to it. These should be public registers to ensure that less of the different affairs are turned around in Ukraine. Therefore, dear friends, I propose that this law be passed as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u41	Dear colleagues! Discussion of the draft Civil Status Act has been completed. The committee's proposal is to take it as a basis. May I have your attention, please? It is up to the vote to propose to the adoption committee on the basis of the draft law on State registration of civil status shares. [[Registration number 2673]] Please vote. [[10:53:05]] For 401 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! Obviously, each of you and I also receive hundreds of letters in which people express their concern about what is happening in the session room. I'd like to ask you, dear colleagues, to take these letters into account, to keep myself in the hall a little more calm and to stop these active political dialogues and to work. I want to talk to you again, dear fellows! Let's normalize our work in the session room! A draft Act amending article 25 of the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Status of Foreigners and Persons Without Citizenship is being announced for consideration. Registration number 3079. The rapporteur is the first Deputy Head of the State Foreign Service Administration, Paul Anatoliyovich Shisholin. Correspondent is Head of the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities, International Relations of Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u42	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Your opinion is proposed for a draft Law amending article 25 of the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Status of Foreigners and Persons Without Citizenship. The purpose of the bill is to introduce the identification of foreigners and non-citizens according to biometric data. The aim and content of the bill are in line with the trends in improving the immigration control of the European Union, which approved a bill on the phased introduction by 2012 for citizens of the Schengen area of biometric passports. At this time, the passports of the citizens of thirty - four states, including some SND citizens, show the biometics of their owners. Today, the possibility of identifying foreigners according to biometric data is not used, since there is no obligation in Ukraine to provide biometric data. The introduction of a biometric data-fixing system will take place in stages. The adoption of today’s bill is the first basic step. By amending article 25 of the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Status of Aliens, it is proposed to establish for foreigners and non-citizens the obligation to provide their biometric data in two cases: first, during the issuance of a visa to diplomatic and consular institutions of Ukraine abroad; and secondly, the provision of data to foreigners during border controls at points of entry. I emphasize that the procedure for border control is not the essence of the bill. This bill establishes only duties for foreigners and stateless persons. The next step will be the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers to establish a mechanism for fixing biometric data, as well as the establishment of categories of persons who will be relieved of these duties.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u43	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u44	As the amount of 12.5 million dollars is provided by the State Program, the law enforcement program for the state border. The project is agreed upon by all interested central authorities of the executive branch. I'd like to take a look at it. The only request. The draft law provides for the entry into force of January 1, 2009. Of course, in connection with the loss of time, we ask that we postpone the effective date of January 1, 2010. Please support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u45	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Oleg Alexandrovich is head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u46	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The committee considered the bill at its meeting and approved the recommendation to the Supreme Council of Ukraine of a bill amending article 25 of the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Status of Foreigners and Persons Without Citizenship, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. He decided to recommend that the Supreme Council accept it as a basis and generally as a law, taking into account the proposal already made regarding the time of its entry into force. Where did we come from? It has come to the conclusion that in Ukraine, with the implementation of this law, a system of biometric data monitoring is being introduced by the developed countries of the world. What is it? Since the entry into force of the law, foreigners who are granted a visa to enter Ukraine and have appropriate passports with biometric data entered into will provide biometric data for comparison at the border of Ukraine. To date, 34 states have introduced such passports, and the biometric control system is widely applied in virtually all countries of the European Union and other countries developed in the world. In this regard, I would like to point out in particular that the control system does not apply to virtually countries with which the visa-free regime in Ukraine does not apply to these countries, since these persons do not receive visas and do not provide their biometric data in the embassies and consulates of Ukraine. The application of the biometric control system will allow for more careful border control and a more effective fight against trans continental crime. It is not a secret that those engaged in criminal activities, trafficking in human beings, drugs, weapons, and so forth have several passports issued by different countries. Some even have an electronic chip, or.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u47	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u48	Or a machine-reader with a person's data entered, but in our country there are simply no suitable complexes to read this information. Thus, the committee considers this to be an extremely relevant bill. Its introduction will serve the interests of Ukraine and Ukraine alone. Please support the vote for him and on the basis of it, and please, Vladimir Mikhailovich, and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u49	Thank you. Dear colleagues who wish to participate in the discussion of this bill, please register. It's a recording. Please put your names on the board. Vladimir Alexandrovich Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u50	Vladimir Yavorowski, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, town of Kirovograd. Dear colleagues, our esteemed voters, Ukraine today, sadly, resembles such a dilapidated widow’s court. What we have in Western borders is we're kind of making things worse, we're clarifying things, the eastern borders are completely open, and I'm saying this to what we need to think about right now. Which is possible even in one-sided order, and best in two-sided, and that's what we have to deal with Russia, we need to delimit the borders. And then, of course, the situation will be much simpler. As far as this bill is concerned, the Yulia Tymoshenko Block will support it, because, first of all, we are not opening anything, it is a world norm, today the whole world is practically living where there is, of course, a visa regime. Where he's not, there's no need for anything. [[in the European Union]] But since our eastern borders are open, we need to understand that Ukrainian citizens will be required to have a visa for a long period of time, and more entry into our country will be required. Now, we need to think to our government that the very technology of biometrics, the fixation of biometrics, that it's European, that it doesn't turn into things, let's say, humiliation of foreign citizens and so on. And to conclude, I want to say that I have passed my bill, and he will now be considered by the Human Rights Committee, which will also regulate dual citizenship. We have a tremendous threat to our statehood with dual citizenship. It's not actually controlled by anyone today, so we're going to need that bill, and we're going to need to consider it, in order to get these things back to normal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u51	Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u52	Dear colleagues, who are familiar with the bill, see that the bill is very, at first glance, simple and understandable, it consists of two sentences. But the importance of this bill is extraordinary. I'm sure you all have to face it lately, not even a word you can pick out of the attitude of foreign nations, especially those with whom we have simplified visa procedures, attitudes towards the people, towards Ukrainian citizens. And this bill, to some extent, we're setting the same standards as in the countries of the European Union and the countries with which we communicate. It would be good, of course, if in this law we took the words “that is regulated by law” and so on, that is to say that “foreigners and stateless persons may enter Ukraine for real passports”, while “foreigners and stateless persons are obliged to obtain a visa in an orderly manner”. Sadly, however, there are still limitations that lead to what we know. I think it's worth supporting this bill as a whole, as the committee suggests, but with one point of view, that is to take into account the proposal made by the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, not by the legislation of Ukraine, but by the law and international agreements agreed upon by the Supreme Council, that is, as proposed by the Scientific and Experimental Authority, and such an amendment can be voted on as a whole as a law. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u53	Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u54	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear National Deputies! Three sentences, nine sentences is the law. But I'm going to make a firm statement, and I want to say to the chairman right now, against accepting it as a whole. It's categorical. Why? Because this law states that “foreigners and stateless persons are obliged to obtain a visa in an orderly manner and to provide their biometric data for their fixation during the issuance of such a visa”. But our president made a gift. 140 million euros a year we lose on visas without mutuality. And so four times. Four years. So multiply-- you're going to get the money we're losing. That's not a billion dollars, and that's going to be 5 billion in four years that we've just thrown into a pipe. What were we going to do? We wanted to show that we're open and we're open to the West, to the East, we're all open. So much so that, despite the fact that citizens of Ukraine are exposed, let's say in Britain, to such an approach that they should be fingerprinted. Even a note from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs could not be done! What's this, what's it called? Citizens are being bullied, and we remain silent! So I'm going to suggest that we definitely include those countries with which the President's decrees today have a visa-free regime to show that these, apart from the countries that, on the basis of reciprocity, have cancelled visas with Ukraine. Mutuality must be, the respect of Ukraine for itself. And we don't have that. In this case, it's going to be a normal law. First reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u55	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. He's very sensitive, and let's now put the committee's proposal to vote on acceptance as a basis, and then we'll hold consultations. The proposal for a committee to adopt is based on the draft Act amending article 25 of the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Status of Foreigners and Persons Without Citizenship. [[Registration number 3079]] Please vote. [[11:07:17]] For 222 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the return to the draft Law registration number 3079. Please vote. [[11:07:51]] For 252 We're back on the bill. I'm voting on the basis of the bill's draft registration number 3079, as a basis. Please vote. [[11:08:15]] For 252 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there were refinements to this draft law: it was introduced on January 1, 2010 and the proposal that Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk made. It's consistent with the proposal of scientific expertise. At the same time, if I agree with you, I would like to ask Anatolia Carmazin, Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin to withdraw her amendment, withdraw her remarks, because now the Chief Legal Authority, on an assignment agreed upon by the Conciliation Council, is preparing an appropriate bill that will mirror our relationship with other countries for which Ukraine has cancelled the visa regime. And this bill will be brought up for consideration as soon as possible. So if you remove that objection, we could now put to the vote a committee proposal to accept it in general as a law. Is there no objection? Please, Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u56	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I am willing to withdraw my warnings under your word, but please, let us consider this law. Because there can be no one-sided and one-sided love. You know, it's kind of like the abuse of an old lady of Europe over a young Ukrainian state. And let's end this abuse and respect the Ukrainian nation and Ukraine, just like the state, and respect ourselves. So let us adopt these legislations regarding the obligation for all then to drive those countries that apply to Ukraine. If you've given me a job like this, then I'll take my warning off. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u57	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's see how this works out. We will now, by protocol, confirm the mandate of the General Legal Authority: to speed up the drafting of the bill, to review it at the Conciliation Council. When we reach him and the good will of the faction leaders, we will sign him and the Supreme Council will unanimously accept him. Taking into account the amendment that this law has been introduced since 1 January 2010, as well as the proposal by Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, which coincides with the position of scientific and expert administration, I am voting on the adoption of the second reading and, as a whole, the bill of the Law amending article 25 of the Law on the Legal Status of Foreigners and Persons without Nationality, registration number 3079. Please vote. [[11:11:10]] For 252 The law is passed. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we now have to consider three bills relating to amendments to the Ukrainian Act on the National Council on Television and Radio. If you have no objection, we could now hear three reports and then discuss these bills at the same time, but vote separately. Is there no objection? The draft laws 2371, 2442, and 3153 are therefore under review. For a report on the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the National Council on Television and Radio Broadcasting, Landik Vladimir Ivanovich, head of the Committee on Freedom of Word and Information, registration number of draft law 2371, has been issued. [[on bringing Ukraine into line with the current legislation]] Please, Vladimir Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u58	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! Ukraine's draft Act amending the Ukrainian National Council for Television and Radio Broadcasting Act provides for amendments and additions to the 8th, 11th, 13th, 14th, 16th and 24th articles of the Ukrainian National Council for Television and Radio. The proposed changes are primarily aimed at improving the legal principles of the activities of the Foundation, regulating the collations caused by a series of adopted changes to the Television and Radio Broadcasting Act, the Radio Frequency Resource, the Telecommunications Act, the License of Certain Economic Activities Act, etc. The Bill's Novels refer to the supervisory and regulatory powers of the Nacrada, the grounds for the early termination of the mandate of the Nacrada members, the decision-making procedure, and ensuring the proper conditions for the representation of the Nacrada in the regions. It is known that the changes made to the Ukrainian National Council Act on Television and Radio Communication at the end of the fourth call, in the last days, expanded the powers of the National Council, changed the mechanisms for updating its composition and responsibility. The term of office of members of the Nakrad has been increased from four to five years, and the rotation mechanism has been cancelled. It has been established that according to the results of the review of the annual report, its entire composition is retired only in the event of a simultaneous statement of mistrust by Parliament and the President. However, there are no reasons why the term of office of members of the Nakrad is terminated. This gap is filled by the bill I have proposed. Dear colleagues, Nakradya’s account is shaped according to the political priorities of Parliament and the President. They can change dramatically after each presidential or parliamentary election. Yet the legal mechanism.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u59	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u60	There are no legal priorities at the moment. Therefore, we suggest that the eighth article, which regulates the permanent cessation of the powers of members of the Nakrad, should be amended. A member of the Nakradah, whose term of office ended in accordance with this law, is considered to have resigned from the date of his termination. The authorizations of the members of the Nakrad, appointed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, have ceased, irrespective of the terms of office, from the date of the decision on the first after-election to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the activities of the Nakrad. The mandate of the members of the Nakrad, appointed by the President of Ukraine, ceases, irrespective of the term of office, from the date of the decision on the first subsequent election of the President of Ukraine to the report of the activities of the Nakrad. The submission of an annual report to the National Council pursuant to article 16, paragraph 2, of this Law results in the termination of the full membership of the Nacraada. Such changes allow for continuity and continuity in the activities of the Nakrad and to some extent protect the television industry from political earthquakes, and avoid dramatic changes in the regulation of national information space. As the author, I believe that the Nacrad must return to the consensus principle of decision-making, which is an important moment in this bill. Under the political engagement of the Nakrad, this principle is a necessary safeguard. So I propose to complete part six of article 24 of the law, according to which the decision of the Nakrada is considered to be acceptable if it was voted in favour of at least five members and if there is no vote against. By the way, in favour of such changes, we are agitated by international practice, and by 2006, this practice has been applied in Nacrad. The Nacradu Act does not provide for the extension of the authority of the Nacrato to control and license the activities of software providers, to carry out state registration of licenses as subjects of information activity that they actually are.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u61	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Now in the context of Bill 2442 on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the National Council on Television and Broadcasting. [[on the report of the Board]] The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information Committee, Helen Konstantinovna Kondratjuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u62	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The purpose of the bill is to ensure that Parliament implements its control powers and more detailed regulation of the relationship between Parliament and the National Council on Television and Radio. It is no mystery that today there are a number of acute problems in the information field, particularly in the field of television and radio. However, I think the Supreme Council of Ukraine does not have enough tools to respond quickly to challenges or problems in the field of electronic media. In view of the fact that the Basic Law of Ukraine provides for parliamentary control functions in the Supreme Council, as well as establishing powers for the National Council, a number of amendments to the current law on the National Council of Ukraine on television and radio broadcasting are envisaged. The essence of these changes is that of the following. It is proposed that the Supreme Council of Ukraine be given the opportunity, at the suggestion of the President or at least one third of the people's deputies from Parliament's constitutional composition, to consider the issue of an interim report from the National Council on specific issues of its activity. It is also envisaged that the issue of the National Council's interim report will be included in the agenda of the daily plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine without a vote and will be considered in plenary session of Parliament within 30 days of its introduction. If we support the proposed changes, we will ensure that Parliament is able to quickly receive the necessary information from the National Council, which concerns its activities and issues of social interest and requires an urgent legislative settlement. Thus, conditions will be created that will allow the Supreme Council to make the necessary changes to existing legislation on television and radio.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u63	Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u64	Parliament will be given the opportunity to make decisions taking into account the National Council's operational out-of-order reports, not only on the basis of annual reports that have not been heard in Parliament for several years. People's deputies would like to support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u65	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues, and now the bill amending the Ukrainian Act on the National Council of Ukraine on Television and Broadcasting on improving the stages of adoption and the order of publication of acts of the National Council. Registration number 3153. The rapporteur is the head of the Subcommittee, the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information, Helen Anatolyevna Bondarenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u66	Dear Volodymira Mihajlovich, honourable colleagues, the need for the adoption of this bill is, above all, a violation of the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine, the rules of law in force of Ukraine on the National Council for Television and Radio. As a result, there are numerous circumstances that hinder the work of the television industry in Ukraine. What is more, this has resulted in a number of instances where documents approved by the Nakrad have suddenly changed their content: they have accepted one another on the other’s website. And the Council uses the third document. Since the Council is a regulatory body, regulatory acts, including regulatory acts by the Nacra, should be passed by the Ukrainian Act on the Principles of National Regulatory Policy in the Field of Economic Activity in the Adoption Phase. There should also be a clear order of publication of these documents, which the bill proposes allows for a clear distinction between acts adopted by the National Board for regulatory acts, regulations and acts of individual action. Thanks to the fact that the Nazrad can now publish, or sometimes hide some documents under dress, the National Council has recently gone beyond the legal framework and has acquired signs of destabilizing society-factor. We will discuss this in detail when we hear the Nakrada report in Parliament last year. Legally incorrect and politically-involved acts and decisions of the Nakrad were repeatedly discussed at a meeting of the Committee on Freedom of Word and Information. There are several reasons why the regulatory body has begun to establish the Censorship prohibited by the Constitution. One of them is that now the Nakrad's normative acts are not going through the registration procedure at the Ministry of Justice. They don't publish properly.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u67	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u68	As required by the Ukrainian Act “On the Principles of State Regulatory Policy in the Field of Economic Activity”. This law for Nakrad is unfortunately unwritten, and then the radio industry in Ukraine suffers from an unlimited regulatory authority. I am convinced that the adoption of these changes will contribute to the return of the Nakrad to the legal field and the depoliticization of its decisions. I reiterate that the purpose of this law is to bring the status of acts of the National Council of Ukraine into line with the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine and the Ukrainian Law on the Principles of National Regulatory Policy. The Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information at its December 25th meeting considered the bill and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council a bill on the results of the first reading to be adopted as a basis. Thank you very much and please support this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u69	Dear colleagues! The reports on the three bills have been made, and now I ask you to sign up for the bill discussion, registration number 2371, 2442 and 3153. I'd like you to put your name on the sign-up table for the people's deputies. Irina Heratschenko faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense", please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u70	Dear colleagues! I want to say that it's a good thing that we're discussing in Parliament today essentially the transparency of the National Council for Television and Radio. I oppose all the problems that exist today in public information policy and many in the country, and we have only hung them on the National Council for Television and Radio. But really the problem is that if the Supreme Council raises questions about the activities of the National Bank of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Security Service, ministries and authorities, we can invite the heads of these institutions to Parliament to ask questions and discuss the urgent problem that has arisen in the activities of a ministry or another ministry. I'd like to address, Your Honor, your attention to Bill 2442. In my opinion, he is most perfectly writing out this procedure as to how one can invite representatives of the National Television and Radio Council to an interim report, because it is a fairly balanced one, because it offers the opportunity to both the President of Ukraine and the Supreme Council of Ukraine to listen to a report on questions about the National Council. I want to say that you and I see that there are internal problems in the Council today as well as in the Council itself. Last week, several representatives of the National Council said they were resigning. And so the time has really come to hear from the Supreme Council about the activities of the National Council on Television and Radio. Our country is very often losing out on information policy issues. And maybe not least because there's a balanced activity here of the Supreme Council, the Nacradia, the Derteradio. And it's not normal for us to have a Derteleradio for almost a year without a supervisor. This is also the question that we have to resolve as quickly as possible in the Supreme Council. And that's why I think, especially Law 2442 is one that needs to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u71	People's Deputy Gnatkevich, faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u72	Thank you. Dear colleagues, on our faction we discussed all three bills today. And if, according to the bill by Elena Bonadrenco and Mrs. Condratuk Olena, we have no objection to recommending them as a basis. As for the bill reported by colleague Landik, we have strong warnings. To understand them, I want to say it. I want to bring you back to the New Year's Eve when our President Victor Yushchenko welcomed the entire Ukrainian people with New Year's Eve, and after that, after that greeting, I watched all the TV channels called Ukrainian. The first channel, and in this case it was the “Era” at night, was broadcast to some Russian film about the life of Russian nobility. No television channel worked on Ukrainian and English subjects. Passing on a long time ago on the New Year’s celebration of the New Year’s Eve, “The Fires ” New Year’s Eve in Moscow. What does that mean? If we fail to control the organization’s compliance with the legislative requirements for part of the domestic product by its programs and broadcasts, our use of the national product will disappear completely. We will probably be led back to the transfer of the “12 chairs”. The oligarchy of cosmopolitans has taken over information space and our television channels, the cosmopolitans themselves, their cheap Ukrainian and inexpensive Ukrainian products. In Ukraine, below 80 percent of Ukrainians, they have the right to watch television in Ukrainian, and they have the right to control what our bourgeois channels are broadcasting. We will not support this bill, at least that's how we agreed. We believe that it is not a ball, it is a catatia, but it is a desire to wash the Ukrainian language out of the television area.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u73	Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u74	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, honourable colleagues, the very focus of the discussion and the fact that the issue of the National Council has gone through the bloc tells us that obviously we need to adopt Bill 2442 -- a bill that allows us to listen and make decisions on the draft reports of the National Council. I think it's in the context of parliamentary control, and everybody's talking about it. That he must be strengthened, this bill is perfectly logical. And once again, I want to say that today's discussion produces that same thought. As far as Bill 2371 is concerned, you know, I wouldn't want to aggravate the situation here with regard to language control and so forth, although this is also a serious issue, and any country in the world is making sure that the language regime is in the country. What I'm interested in is that legislation today defines the minimum portion of the domestic product. Any country in this country is interested. Any country and Russia and Belarus and our Western neighbours are looking very closely at what part of the domestic product will be in the domestic television area. So I don't think I can deprive the National Council of that kind of function. And there's more. Here's an important point, a colleague put it as a novelty that decisions can be made by consensus. It's just great, respectable friends. In general, it is always better when there are no unsatisfying ones. But in fact, when there's a person in the National Council who's always going to be against it, it's blocking any decision. Moreover, the National Council, by its status, is a collegiate body. The collegiate body also adopts a regime of other voting by a democratic majority. It seems to me that we should be very careful about this legislative novel because it can just block the work of the National Council when there are five men in favor.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u75	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u76	When five men are behind, but one man is enough against, and no decision is made. So I think this bill of colleague Landik needs to be further worked out, because it also has good things to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u77	Thank you. Peter Simonenko, one minute, please. Then Andrew Shevchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u78	Simonenko, the Communist faction. The Communist faction proposes to support all three bills, on the committee to process them, to make one, and the main purpose of this bill is to strengthen control and facilitate Ukraine's information space to return to Ukraine. We, the Communist faction, are very often approached by those who communicate with the National Television Council, and they claim that this council has turned into a board of bribes, a council that serves Baloga's interests, giving him information space. That's why I'd like us to be very clear today on the main issue that the Supreme Council is today protecting the information space of Ukraine -- that's the first. Second, it promotes what unites the people of Ukraine rather than divides them, as they are today trying to divide the language issue one more time. And thirdly, right now, we need to cut off a powerful capital, especially when it's still in office as Head of the President's Secretariat, it's trying to destroy the information space today by simply taking over.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u79	Let me finish. Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u80	The faction suggests supporting all three bills and working and doing as one on the committee, and bringing them to the consideration of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u81	Thank you. Yes, Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u82	Dear colleagues, there's a proposal from these three bills, of course, to agree that we need instruments and mechanisms of influence, and two bills -- Helen Condratuk and Helen Bondarenko -- we need to be supported because we are clearly setting boundaries where Nacrad cannot go beyond his responsibilities. Instead, the Vladimir Landik bill is actually a conceptual bill for a new National Council. I think it's fundamentally important to talk about it in general in a broader expert circle, because the problem is not only that the Nacrad is denied the key right to control the country's information radio area, in principle, then it needs to be called a council, because it's no longer a National Council. If it's not national radio and it doesn't control television. And the problem is, in fact, Parliament and the President are depriving themselves of any right to influence the situation, they're removing article 5, and so we can listen to the Nakrad 10 times in the Supreme Council. Even if we are serious, we have no influence. I think it's a questionable story, including the veto, because you're not actually going to be able to make any decisions. So one more time. I propose two bills of support. Landik's bill is not supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u83	Thank you. Please, Hanna Herman's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u84	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I would like to point out that the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information recommended the adoption of all three bills, including the Vladimir Landik bill. I ask you to consider the position of the committee when voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u85	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. The committee's proposal is to adopt all three bills as a basis. In order to consider them, I will put these proposals to the vote. There is a motion for a committee to adopt as a basis for the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the National Council of Ukraine on Television and Broadcasting. [[on bringing Ukraine into line with the current legislation]] Registration number 2371. The author is Ukrainian national deputy Volodymyr Landik. Please vote. [[11:34:56]] For-198 The decision is not taken. Next draft of the Act amending the Ukrainian Act "On the National Council of Ukraine on Television and Broadcasting". [[on the report of the Board]] I remind you once again, registration number 2442, the author is the national deputy of Ukraine, Olena Konstantinovna Kondratuk. Please vote. [[11:35:38]] For 257 Decision taken. And now the proposal for a committee on adoption is put to the vote on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the National Council of Ukraine on Television, Broadcasting. [[on improving the adoption and publication of acts of the National Council]] Registration number 3153. The author is Ukrainian national deputy Bondarenko Olena Anatoliyevna. Please vote. [[11:36:25]] For 361 Decision taken. Okay, we'll be right back. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal: The bill of Law 2371 should be re-readed for the first time. [[author – National Deputy Landik Vladimir Ivanovich]] I'm putting this motion to a vote. [[11:37:04]] For-191 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 163, “Timoshenko Yulia Block” – 0, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” – 0, Communists – 27, “Litvina Block” – 1. Dear colleagues, the draft Act amending article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on Taxation from Owners of Means of Transport and Other Car and Mechanisms is under review. [[on tax benefits for vocational and technical institutions]] The rapporteur is Ukrainian national deputy Alexander Andrievich Vasiliev. Correspondent is head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy Sergey Anatoliyovich Teryohin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u86	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! The draft Act amending article 4 of the Ukrainian Act on the Tax on Owners of Vehicles and Other Self-propelled Vehicles and Mechanisms, No. 2353, aims to restore one of the tax benefits for vocational training institutions. To date, Ukraine has been focusing on the development of secondary, higher education. At the same time, the problems of vocational training institutions remain under-considered. Of course, general education institutions enable the entire population of the country to be covered, and VIZs train highly qualified professionals. But it should not be forgotten that it is the graduates of the vocational schools who are the closest to the production processes, in fact, whose hands create jobs and create material goods. In Ukraine today, the potential of skilled workers has decreased to no more than 15 per cent. In Western countries, this figure is between 20 and 70 per cent. One of the fundamental reasons why we are seriously lagging behind in the development of vocational and technical education is the lack of material resources and financial resources. At the current stage, especially in the context of the financial and economic crisis, the State is not in a position to meet all the needs of the schools. This is understandable because budget resources are needed in many other areas of the economy. However, vocational training institutions could partially meet their needs. To this end, it is sufficient only to provide tax benefits where they are not always justified. The bill 2353 provides for exemption from vehicle owners'tax, vocational and technical training institutions, which are subject to the exemption.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u87	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u88	Property relating to vehicles used for training purposes. In other words, we exempt only those vehicles on which students are trained at vocational schools. The bill was considered at a meeting of the Special Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, which recommended that it be adopted as a basis. In this regard, I propose to support the draft legislation in its first and overall terms. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u89	Thank you, sit down, please. Sergey Anatolyovich Teryohin, head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u90	Good afternoon, dear fellows! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Tax and Customs Policy at its meeting on 21 May 2008 considered a bill submitted by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Vasilov, amending article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on Taxation from Owners of Vehicles and Other Self-Cars and Mechanisms, registration number 2353. [[on tax benefits for vocational and technical institutions]] According to the bill, the recovery of benefits will allow to some extent improve the material status of vocational and technical schools, given that the costs that are currently paid in the form of a tax on educational transport will remain in these institutions. The committee had a rather lively discussion. With one vote, it was recommended that the bill be taken as a basis. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council notes that the bill is to be rejected. I would just like to draw your attention to the fact that all budgetary organizations in Ukraine are paying taxes on transport equipment and self-propelled mechanisms. Then, logically, both schools and universities must be released. We have received a letter from the Ministry of Transport, where the Minister of Transport proposes to release non-state organizations that train drivers, which makes the process completely uncontrollable. So despite the fact that the committee has supported, once again, with one vote, first reading, my personal opinion, we don't have to open Pandora's box. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, your position is proven. Is there a need to exchange ideas? Please sign in. Please put the names of the people's deputies on the board. Alexy Plotnikov, faction of our Ukraine. Excuse me, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u92	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! There is a proposal to support this bill, which liberates professional and technical educational institutions from paying taxes on transport owners. There are some remarks to this bill, especially if the amount of taxes they have to pay to professional and technical institutions are included in their assets, then there are things that need to be adjusted to the corresponding budget. That is, in the event of the release of such educational institutions and the payment of the specified tax in their funds, there will be no such funding, and therefore there will be no funding for the school. In addition, there are some warnings about the article of the First Law on the Tax System, that is, not less than six months before the start of the new fiscal year. But on the whole, because it is certainly a positive bill, there is a suggestion to support it in the first reading, taking into account the comments noted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u93	Thank you. Catherine Samuel instead of his colleague Kilinkarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u94	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the state of teaching technology is in a very unsatisfactory state. Nearly three thousand trucks used in the trades sector are only 140 with a term of operation of up to 10 years, and about 1,300 cars are only 300. In agri-industrial plant, 96 percent of technicians have worked their resources and have already been replaced. And of course, for the acquisition of new technology, there is virtually no allocation for the repair of the existing state budget. Schools are trying to solve the problem at the expense of their own resources, which are not enough. At the same time, schools are forced by their own special fund to pay a transport tax that is estimated at 5.4 million dollars a year by the Ministry of Education and Science. And this is the price for that metal, for that junk that's in the yard of the storehouse. It's these costs that teaching institutions could really use to upgrade the material and technical base. Our committee also considered this issue and unanimously decided to ask the Supreme Council of Ukraine to accept this bill as a basis and as a whole, and we know that the Ministry of Internal Affairs is in favour. I don't know what private institutions the Minister of Transport is talking about, but today we're looking at a specific issue that concerns facilitating activity in a professional way.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u95	Let me finish. Do you have everyone? Everything? Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u96	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear National Deputies! We have a lot of talk in the room about the fact that there are no lobbyist bills, it just doesn't have to be. In 2006, we adopted amendments to the Law on Taxation from Owners of Means of Transport and Other Self - Driven Mechanisms, and there, article 4 was added to the benefits of this law. This article is already wide enough. Now we're not even writing down the word that these means of transport that are used for teaching purposes are not written without profit. And we're forgetting that we're providing pay-per-view services with a big profit. So these are learning goals just by making a profit, let's speak frankly. Thus, the bill is one of a variety of lobbying bills, and it should have been clearly defined in this regard as to how much money would not be available in the local budgets. And in accordance with article 27 of the Code of Budgets, we have to add proposals for expenditure to be reduced, or proposals for sources of additional income to cover the increase in expenditure, which we don't have. So we either make a bill where we give institutions, universities, schools and PTUs, too, but we write "without profit" or we don't do it at all, and lobbying has to stop whoever it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u97	Oleg Laszko, faction of the “Blanket of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u98	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Our faction will not vote for this bill. First of all, for reasons already stated by Comrade Carmazin, it is absolutely argued that there is no need for good slogans to engage in lobbyism. And secondly, in times of crisis, we would be grateful to our partners if they would propose bills to Parliament that fill the income part of the budget and then share the money. You don't have to share with the big minds what the government has gathered, and you have to make proposals to have extra money when we vote 3.2 billion for cigarettes to the budget, they don't vote, and the benefits that give a minus to the budget, and the taxes from the means of transport, where it goes, to repair roads, local roads, utility roads, they're all broken down, in villages, in areas, for decades. That's the head of the Supreme Council last week in Chernigiv district, you've seen what roads there are, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, they haven't repaired those roads for decades, and it's just the taxes from the means of transport that go to repair the utility roads. Let us now put these benefits under beautiful slogans, and on the basis of which we will repair the roads tomorrow. So let's adopt laws that fill the budget, not that destroy even the remainders that are in this budget. And today they had the opportunity to vote on such laws, not to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u99	I ask everyone to calm down, remembering what week this is. The bill is closed. The committee's proposal is to take it as a basis. Then it will be possible for the committee to work and calculate, if the Supreme Council supports, if the Supreme Council supports it. I therefore put to the vote the proposal of the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on Taxation from Owners of Vehicles and Other Self-employed Vehicles and Taxing Mechanisms for Vocational Technical Institutions. Once again, I'm reminding you of the registration number of bill 2353. There's a vote coming. [[11:51:30.]] For 193 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party - 164, "Julia Timoshenko Block" - 0, "Our Ukraine-People's Self-Defense" - 1, communists - 27, "Block of Lithuania" - 1. I'm putting him to the vote on sending draft Law 2353 for re-reading. [[11:52:05]] For-198 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. The draft Law on the Structure, Competence and Specificity of the Legal and Economic Regime of the National Industrial and Agrarian Association "Masandra" is announced for consideration. [[0897]] Mikola Volodymyrovich Jury, please let us now, dear colleagues, quickly consider this bill there all the proposals taken into account. And I'm announcing once again that at 12 o'clock a meeting of the Conciliation Council. Faction leaders, please meet in the office of the Chief of Staff of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u100	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The second reading is introduced by Bill 0897, which is designed to preserve the integrity of Masandra's unique property complex. “Masandra” is the oldest enterprise of the country’s classical production. It consists of nine enterprises, made up from the 20th to the 61st. The Masandra merger is located in three administrative areas on the southern coast of the Black Sea. The total number of workers is about 4,000. The trade mark is well known outside Ukraine, and Masandra's wines have received recognition not only in the internal market but also in international markets. Up to 80 per cent of Ukraine's exports of quiet wines are part of Masandra's wines. The basis of the unique Masandra production is its own raw material base, the organic link between raw materials and finished production, which is the basis on which Masandra is based. Without its own raw material, there can be no high-quality marocan production. The area of the unique land plots consists of 11,000 hectares, of which about 6,000 hectares [6,000 ha] are vineyards, indicating the extraordinary value of each hectare on which the vine grows. In recent years, however, more than 300 acres [300 ha] of land has already been removed from government subordination. Many years of planting took place in the elite areas of the south bank of Crimea. Unfortunately, this is not the case alone. Thirty - six amendments were made to the second reading of the bill, twenty - seven of them being taken into account in full, nine in editorial terms. The committee thanks the people's deputies who made their proposals to this bill. The Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, at its meeting on February 17, 2009, decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to stop the dispersal and destruction of this unique enterprise, which is a pearl in Ukrainian winemaking and to preserve its property integrity, to adopt the bill in second reading and in general as a law. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u101	Dear colleagues! No one insists on their amendments? Adam Martinyuk, please, what's the correction?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u102	No, I'm not on my own. I'm on the right one. Actually, dear colleagues, I'm particularly referring to Mikola Volodymyrovich, let's look at this problem at this point of view. What needs to be accepted and what's very good is that we're going to accept it today, I hope. But unfortunately, nowhere in the law is there any indication that it is a state enterprise. You see, it's a national production union, and so on and so forth. And preferably, we're adopting a law to protect and say that this state-owned enterprise remains, that it's forbidden, that it's not privatized, by the way, that it is. So to be clear, I propose in your first amendment, which is partly considered, where the National Industrial-Agrarian Company “Masandra” statutory merger is possible, inserting the word “State statutory union, so that at least somewhere else it is emphasized that it is really a state-owned enterprise. And with that in mind, we can vote in favour of the law as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u103	I don't deny it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u104	Dear colleagues, the offer is accepted. Are there any other warnings? One moment, please, Alexander Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u105	Alexander Bondar, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Very nice things the reporter told us. And I want to see what's on the table. Now all alienation of NGO assets “Masandra” will be carried out under the approval of the Supervisory Board, not in agreement with the Fund and the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers. With Masandre’s control of the activities being carried out again by the Supervisory Board. And who now joins the Governing Body? Composition of the Supervisory Board with the participation of Ukrainian national deputies, including the heads of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agrarian Policy. If you say that such things will lead to the preservation of property and will not allow its dispersion, then I will tell you that it is a very dangerous precedent when the Supreme Council creates a union, which is the exclusive prerogative of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. And such things can't be allowed in legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u106	First, for five years, the law provides for a moratorium on the alienation of all property for five years. That's the first one. Secondly, the Supervisory Board is a structure that. The MPs are in agreement. That's a second. And third. I think that if there is a five-year moratorium on the alienation of property, and this law provides, I think that in five years we will be able to go back to the situation that is going to be in Massandra.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u107	Dear colleagues, on what amendments are there still insistence? Please, what is the amendment, Yuri Anatolyovich? Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u108	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich was counted after the first reading of the 25th Amendment, the 27th Amendment. It's about property. And I remind you that in the first reading, we wrote down that the property complex refers to the land that is in constant use and so on and then all the material and intangible assets. Since these amendments have been made, they destroy a little bit of the law, I would like to put amendments to the 25th and 27th votes to be confirmed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I will personally vote against it, because this is not what Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk was talking about at all. If we make this amendment in the first amendment, which is a national amendment, then it would just contradict it. That's why I'm asking you to put the 25th, the 27th, in support of the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u109	Please take the seat of the committee and we will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u110	I believe that the 25th amendment, which speaks of the alienation of immovable property, of the things that are referred to the core funds that are in the household knowledge of Masandra and the enterprises that are part of it, is carried out in accordance with the order established by law in agreement with the supervisory board. I think it's supposed that for five years we're putting a moratorium on alienation. Five years from now. And then there's legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u111	Dear colleagues, let's make this progress. In accordance with the Rules, if there is insistence and we should vote on every amendment, I will put it to the vote. May I have your attention, please? The vote is amended to include the 25th National MP Bevjenk’s support and consideration. [[12:00:38]] For 155 Correction not accepted. Similarly, I will put to the vote Amendment 27 to confirm it, this is the amendment of the national deputy of Jury Mikoli Volodymyrovich. Please vote. [[12:01:07]] For 175 Correction not supported. Yes, what are the other urges? I can't see. Dear colleagues, the proposal for a second reading committee and generally as a bill of the draft Law on the Structure, Power and Specificity of the Legal and Economic Regime of the National Agricultural Association “Masandra” is put to the vote. Registration number 0897. Please vote. There's a clarification of the word "state," yes. [[12:01:51]] For 205 The decision is not taken. I am betting on voting for re-reading the draft law. [[Registration number 0897]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:02:15]] For 363 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, a break of up to 12 hours is announced for 33 minutes. Faction leaders, please meet at the Conciliation Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, please come into the session room so that we can continue our work. Let me inform you about the outcome of the Conciliation Board meeting. The Conciliation Council discussed a number of issues, namely, the further fate of the three anti-crisis bills, which the Supreme Council of Ukraine did not include in the agenda today because of your familiar circumstances, nor did it then consider or determine its attitude toward these documents. We have agreed that if the President of Ukraine is asked to examine these documents, the Supreme Council of Ukraine will give careful consideration to the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. That's the first one. Secondly, if we find understanding among factions, we will have the opportunity to go back to looking at these bills on Thursday, that is, there is a day and a half. the days for the necessary consultations. We've also discussed the fate of the bill regarding the gaming business. This problem is extremely sensitive, I would say, more than that, irritable to people, and we need to make a decision that would allow a credible obstacle to this scourge that is spreading across Ukraine. We accepted an agreed proposal that on May 14, the Supreme Council of Ukraine would decide on two bills. One of them is prepared for second reading, and another bill is due to be considered by the committee on 14 May. It's about banning the gaming business in Ukraine. This is the Bill of People’s Deputies of Smith and Pisarenko. We also agreed that we would work effectively, but at the same time quickly, that the schedule of meetings set for this plenary week would be complete. has been exhausted as a result of discussion and decision-making so that we can unload the committees and continue to work more effectively. That's all I've informed you about. We're continuing our consideration of the bill. We were about to consider Bill 2375 with you on amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Agriculture. [[on price regulation of the agricultural market, risk insurance, recovery measures and rural social programmes]] We discussed this bill at the Conciliation Council meeting -- and we decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine postpone its consideration until Thursday, Thursday, by agreeing on positions, in order to make an effective decision, to return to the consideration of this bill. I would ask the committee head to hold appropriate consultations and draft a bill on Thursday, 16 April. Hence, respectable colleagues are being declared for consideration. I mean April 16th, that is, Thursday. And now the bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of Human Beings from Ionizing Radiation, registration number 1347, second reading, is being announced. Reporter: Skoubenko Volodymyr Petrovich. And I'd like to ask you to do some repairs right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u113	Dear colleagues, we present to you the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of Human Beings against Ionizing Radiation. According to the project of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the authority is given to define the basics of public policy in the field of human protection against ionising radiation, the legal basis for regulating human relationships against ionising radiation, the approval of the basic limits of the dosage of the individual radiation of the population and the personnel of the objects on which practical activities are carried out, the establishment of levels of interference in the event of radioactive accidents, and the establishment of the boundaries and legal regime of radioactive pollution areas, and so on. The bill also amends the mandate of the National Commission for Radiation Protection of the People of Ukraine, and these changes have led to very controversial debates on individual committees, but, for example, our committee, a committee, a special committee, insists that the law be passed on second reading, generally as a law. Because no subject in the legislative initiative or public authority has questioned the need for a National Commission for Radiation Protection of the Population, and this is confirmed by the Declaration of State Sovereignty of Ukraine since July 16, 1990. The phrase can be: “The Ukrainian RSR has its national commission for radiation protection of the population”. Such committees are in the majority of nations that operate nuclear facilities, this decision is supported by MAGATE and the committee at its meeting has been considering the activities of the National Commission. Members of the committee and experts attending the meeting unanimously supported the organizational principles of the National Commission for Radiation Protection of the People of Ukraine. Taking into account that 369 national deputies supported the bill in the first reading, the committee, after further elaboration and amendment, proposes the adoption of the law in the second reading and in general as a law. All the amendments that have been made by the deputies are practically taken into account, except for the amendment that I said after the radiation protection committee. I would like to draw particular attention to the importance of this law because it establishes the powers of the Supreme Council in three important areas. This is a statement of the main dose limit for individual radiation, and this is very important for all those working at nuclear power plants. Approval of the boundaries and legal regime of radioactively polluted areas. You all know what questions have now begun to arise regarding the transfer from one category from one zone of resettlement to another, to the fourth, to the third, to the second and to the first. This is also related to construction, production.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u114	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u115	These are the problems that a very large number of people are facing today. And on the eve of the anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster, I urge the entire hall to accept the second reading and as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u116	Dear colleagues, let's go to the repairs. The first and second amendments by Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin were not taken into account. Do you insist on them, Yuri Anatolyovich? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u117	Dear fellow MPs! I refer to you in connection with the fact that the Constitution takes into account the powers of the Supreme Council and does not require any duplication of laws, for there will be either narrowing or enlargement. That is why I have proposed article 9 as an editorial: “Encouragement of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to which the issue of environmental policy, environmental management and the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster on the protection of human beings from the effects of ionizing radiation is related.” And here I write that the committee's mandate is to agree on the order of development and approval of human protection rules, rules and standards, and parliamentary control, because this allows Parliament to be controlled, and the entire Supreme Council cannot do so. So I don't understand why we didn't go this way, because there are a number of laws, including the Law on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption, the Law on Organizational and Legal Basis, where.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u118	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u119	Dear National Deputies! Yuri Anatoliyovich, for us, for the members of the committee, it is very flattering when we are given the right, on behalf of the entire Supreme Council, to decide on 2,300 more than two and a half thousand settlements that have suffered today from the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. This question relates to hundreds of thousands of hectares of land, with transfers from one state to another, related to billions of bracelets, which, so to speak, go to the social security of the population. The issue is very serious, and we believe that it can only be placed under the authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Of course, if the entire Supreme Council gave these powers only to our committee, it would be flattering for us, but it is probably wrong for one committee to decide the entire fate of the country. However, the Supreme Council's authority should not be narrowed down. This is my position and the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u120	Please, Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u121	Yuri Carmazin. Dear colleagues, you have misunderstood, in fact, that you have not read the amendment to the end. Please read it. It says: proper parliamentary monitoring of the enforcement of human protection legislation, and further: preparation for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Bills – and it is still going on. [[Because no one's doing it for today, and you've now refused to give this committee authority.]] And all you've highlighted is the drafting of drafts. That is, Carmazin is well aware that it is impossible for 20 or 30 men of the Supreme Council to be given authority. And I'd like a proper assessment of that. You refuse not only for yourself, you refuse to control the Supreme Council. That's why I'm talking to my colleagues. Whatever committee they're on, this control is needed to enforce legislation. And the preparation for the consideration of these bills on and agreement on the order of development and so forth, it needs to be harmonized, it needs to be enshrined in the law. I don't understand why the committee hasn't finished.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u122	Volodymyr Petrovich, what is the position of the committee on the amendment of Yuri Anatoliovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u123	The committee's proposal is to reject.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u124	Yuri Anatolyovich, do you insist on voting on your amendments? Dear colleagues, I am putting to the vote the amendment of one national deputy Karmazin to article nine, article nine, as follows: “The mandate of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to which the issue of environmental policy, environmental management and the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster relates, to the protection of human beings against the effects of ionizing radiation.” Please vote. [[12:49:09]] For 165 The decision is not taken. I understand that there is no need to vote for the second amendment automatically, and it has to do with the first one if it is not supported. Let's move on. Amendment three is counted. Four counts. The fifth count. Six doesn't count. Yuri Anatolyovich, please. Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u125	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, the sixth amendment within the Constitution is that the approval of the position and the personal composition of the National Commission for the Protection of the Population to the constitutional powers of the Supreme Council listed in the Constitution is not mentioned in the National Commission for the Protection of the Population. That is why there is no parliamentary mandate to approve the personal composition of this commission and position. This can be done by the government within the limits of its authority. So this is, just asking for a veto in an equal place, and a good law can be committed, and that's right, if it were to do that reference, because we need to be trained to work under the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u126	Vladimir Petrovich, please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u127	Dear Yuri Anatolyovich! Dear National Deputies! The National Commission for Radiation Protection of Population is not an executive body, it is a scientific and technical council, which is precisely the body that today holds the executive power in every way possible to preserve the safety of nuclear installations, the safety of the population, the security of all people, so to speak, from the civilisation. This commission was approved in 99 years by the Supreme Council, this is the body that today has the High Council's accountable body, if we give it the right to establish this position to the Cabinet of Ministers, we will have no authority with you to influence the executive power other than that commission. Trust me, nuclear security issues are so sensitive and so socially significant that we cannot be in one's own hands, with all that we are today and as if by a party of power, we cannot give in one's own hands, regardless of who is in charge of the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u128	Thank you. Dear colleagues! At the same time, the amendment number six of the national deputy Yuri Karmazin puts to the vote. [[12:51:56]] For two. The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues! Amendment No. eight does not need to be put to the vote because the previous first amendment is not supported. No, no, no. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u129	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin. Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, Amendment No. 8 is intended in the final positions to provide that the Committee of the Supreme Council on Rules of Procedure, MPs and Enforcement of the Activities of Deputies, within a month, submit a draft decision to the Supreme Council on the establishment of the Committees of the Supreme Council of the primary legislative acts to ensure that they exercise parliamentary control over compliance with these acts. The point is that now all the legislative acts that we have adopted, they have to be controlled in principle by the President as a guarantor of compliance with the Constitution and the laws. But there is no control, that is, she, you know, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, sooner or later we will come to the point that the state needs to establish order, that we need to stop this chaos that is. And I wanted us to write down this commission to the regulatory committee, to the parliamentary ethics committee, and it would also apply to this committee, and that would be a matter of parliamentary control.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u130	Dear colleagues, if you don't mind, I'll put it to the vote. The issue is that the Supreme Council of Ukraine has two functions: the adoption of laws and the enforcement of laws. By accepting such an amendment, we demonstrate that the Supreme Council of Ukraine does not perform one of its key functions. So it's very clear that any laws that are passed, prepared by committees, these committees should ensure that they are monitored and enforced. But at the same time, I'm putting to the vote Amendment No. 8 of Yuri Carmazin. [[12:54:08]] For -6 The decision is not taken. The proposal for a second-reading committee and, as a whole, a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Protection against Ionising Radiation is now being put to the vote. Registration number 1347. Please vote. [[12:54:41]] For 353 The law is passed. I repeat my request to respectable colleagues and reporters, let's work faster and talk about the amendments immediately. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine, registration number 2095, is being announced for consideration. The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Law Enforcement, Victor Dmitrovich Schwetz. Please, Victor Dmitrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u131	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Taking your wishes into account, and right away, I want to get to the point of the problem. As you recall, the Ukrainian Parliament supported in its first reading a draft law that improves the structure and authority of the tax police. After the first reading of the bill, 21 proposals were made to the committee, 20 of which were fully considered by the committee. The committee at its meeting considered the bill, taking into account amendments made by the national deputies, and recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the law in second reading and in general as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u132	Dear colleagues! The committee processed all the amendments and they got a positive decision on the committee. So we have every reason.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u133	There is one amendment: Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u134	What's the repair number?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u135	And this is an extra table, 13th one.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u136	Now, one minute. This is Yuri Carmazin's amendment in an additional table. An amendment is made by a friend, please, Yuri Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u137	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I'm happy with the cooperation with the committee, they've practically taken everything into account and there's no point in this amendment because it's actually included in the previous amendment. So the amendment so to speak should not be taken from consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u138	Thank you for being constructive. Dear colleagues! The committee proposes that the second reading and, as a whole, the draft law be adopted with registration number 2095. I am voting on the proposal for a second reading committee and, as a whole, the bill of the Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on improving the structure and functioning of the tax police and the social protection of its workers]] Registration number 2095. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u139	Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u140	[[12:57:46]] For 352 The law is passed. A draft Law on Science Parks is being announced for consideration. [[resecond reading]] The rapporteur is the Deputy Head of the Committee on Science and Education, Davymuk Stepan Antonovich. Please, Stepan Antonovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u141	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, ladies and gentlemen! The majority of comments and suggestions made in the second reading of the bill, as well as the comments of the Supreme Council’s Chief Legal Office, have been taken into account by the committee in the drafting of the Law on Scientific Parks. The committee is grateful to the national deputies who have worked hard on this law and have made valuable suggestions. The bill was initiated by the Supreme Council’s Chief Legal Authority without notice. In general, 79 proposals came to the bill, of which only four were rejected in connection with the improvement of the bill’s structure, thus reducing certain concepts. And taking into account the offer made by 60 colleagues of Carmazin is aimed at transferring all higher education institutions to the Ministry of Education and Science, which is not the norm of this law. In the updated version, there was a substantial increase in the status of control and responsibility of scientific parks for the implementation of projects that were supported by the State in this regard when considering the bill in the second reading. The state registration and implementation of scientific park projects that have been granted State support for customs, and this issue was the main issue in the last time before the bill, will be carried out only by decision of the Government of Ukraine and the subsequent control of the Ministry of Education and Science and Tax Administration. The law is aimed at revitalizing the innovative activities of higher education institutions and leading scientific institutions to bring their scientific research results to a commercial stage. The committee proposes unanimously to adopt the bill as a whole. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u142	Dear colleagues, who insist on those adjustments that have been partially taken into account? No one insists. Then the committee’s proposal is put to the vote. Well, please, I asked. Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u143	Yuri Carmazin. I don't insist on my amendments. Most of them are accounted for, except for one. But the 59 amendments that are included changed the text that was in the first reading. The first reading specifically authorized the central authority of the executive body on education and science. And it is now replaced by such a text as “the central authority of the executive authority, whose administration is a higher educational institution or scientific institution”. In view of the fact that in all countries, generally in all civilized countries, this should still be in the educational and scientific bodies, I ask that 59 amendments, which are included, be made to support the hall. I think it's done, the changes made make things worse for the science parks. That's my private opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u144	Please, the committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u145	In discussing this issue, we considered the fact that our National Academy of Sciences is largely autonomous in management, and this reality needs to be taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u146	No, this is meant by the authorities, such as the Academy of Sciences, the State Academy of Sciences, and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u147	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Since the deputy, Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, has the right to demand that the Supreme Council of Ukraine vote in favour of amendment 59, which was counted by the committee. I'm voting on this proposal. [[13:02:59]] For-53 Decision not taken, Amendment 59 is deleted. The point is that Amendment 59 was taken into account. The national deputy Karmazin put to the vote that the Supreme Council of Ukraine would support the amendment. 53 deputies expressed their support for the amendment, which was not included. It was considered entirely by the committee. This is the 59th amendment, which is the amendment of the People's Deputy, Mikhail Vasilovich. Take a closer look, please. So this 59th amendment is off. This is exactly what Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin insisted. Right, Yuri Anatolyovich? Hence, respectable colleagues, all other adjustments taken into account or on a reasonable basis are rejected. There is no insistence on voting on other amendments. I put to the vote a proposal for a second-reading committee and, as a whole, a draft of the Science Parks Act, registration number 0956. Please vote. [[13:04:32]] For-55 The decision is not taken. Then I'll put the second reading back on? For the second reading again. Bill 0956 for second reading, please. Please. [[13:05:05]] For 222 The decision is not taken. Well, I know we didn't make it. The situation here is that the drafters vote against themselves. Okay, once again, I'm voting on the return to draft Law 0956, on the return to the consideration of draft Law 0956. [[13:05:46]] For 234 We're back. Now I'm voting on the second reading proposal and generally as the bill of the Law on Science Parks. [[Registration number 0956]] No, no, dear colleagues, we'll go through the procedure completely. In the second reading and generally as a law. Dear colleagues, I'll explain again. [[unvote]] I put the committee's first proposal on the adoption of the law to vote. The committee didn't support it. For the second reading again, the committee didn't support it. I put to the vote a return to the draft law -- the Supreme Council of Ukraine supported it. After that, I put it to a vote in the right order, it makes sense. So now, honourable colleagues, there's a motion for adoption in second reading and in general as a bill of the Law on Science Parks. [[Registration number 0956]] Please vote. [[13:06:59]] For-49 The decision is not taken. The proposal to re-read draft Law 0956 is now put to the vote. [[13:07:27]] For 247 Decision taken. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Television and Broadcasting Act is being announced for consideration. [[on bringing into conformity with the Constitution of Ukraine]] Registration number 3140. The rapporteur is a member of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information. Prutnik Eduardo Anatoliyovich. Who will report the bill? Bondarenko Olena? Andrew Shevchenko, please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u148	Colleagues! Position. We don't have a report from the committee on this issue right now. The committee’s decision on the bill was to support it in a second reading. But I'm taking the opportunity that I'm already here, and I'm also going to sound those warnings that were made during the discussion of this bill. In short, its purpose is to cancel such a tool as public councils and give the full Supreme Council the opportunity to appoint and release the head of the National Television and Radio Company. The cautions that have been given in discussing the bill are summarized as follows. This is a step that takes us back from public speaking and this does not match the recommendations of the European institutions on this area. So I'm going to remind you that there was a position on this committee. on this bill to support it in a second reading. If this is not done, I would suggest that I send him, direct him to read again.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u149	Well, I'm before the vote. Just a minute. Then we'll go to the repairs, and then you'll come out. Well, dear colleagues, when there's one reporter, we can't interrupt the second reporter right now. Well, that's all right. Let's do some repairs. Amendment No. 4 rejected. Mikola Volodymyrovich, are you insisting on her? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u150	Dear colleagues!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u151	Just a minute. What, what? First amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u152	Is he gonna fix it? One more change.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u153	First amendment. Please, do you insist on the first amendment? Please. Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk. Let's go back to the first amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u154	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I ask you to return to the first amendment, it is counted, but it must be supported. And please don't support me. At first glance, the amendment seems to have a logical explanation: that the public may be the ones financed by the budget. Imagine: the state broadcaster is a state-owned company today, but they don't give it money, they don't finance it from the budget, and then there's an opportunity to view it as non-state and adopt it. That's why we strongly insist that we leave it in the previous line: government is what's public, not what's added here, which is funded by the budget. Because governments are funded by the budget, and they are financed, including by the funds they make. That's why both the first and the second amendment of colleague Prutnik -- I'm asking them to vote, but not to support the committee's decision, because it's going to be a completely different law, a completely different situation in television. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u155	Adam Ivanovich, there's no problem. Read the last column: “State broadcasters are the ones created by the established public authorities are the budgetary institutions.” This is the formula proposed by the State Committee on Television and Radio. He does not foresee any other possibility for change. On the contrary. Adam Ivanovich, I fully share your approach, and this formula is written just so that we have state broadcasters working in the status of budgetary institutions, there is no other way.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u156	Dear colleagues, let's do this right now: by voting, let's settle our discussion. Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u157	Dear colleagues, since this is a very principled position, I am well aware of the discussion of previous years, Adam Ivanovich is absolutely right: it is an extremely dangerous norm. And I'm surprised that the former head of the Derteleradio offered it. First of all, we're depriving state, regional and our national television companies of any means of extra earning, because it's going to be interpreted as having no right to do so. They signed an agreement on how to explain activities in someone's area -- now we forbid them to do so. So I think it's an article that's going to destroy national regional broadcasts in general. So I support Adam Ivanovich. We can't support this norm, because we're going to make regional and communal speech worse.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u158	Dear colleagues, the amendment of the first Prutnik People’s Deputy to support this amendment is put to the vote. [[13:12:38]] For -0, for -0, for -0, for -4. Now I'm voting in a similar way to Amendment 2 of the Prutnik People's Deputies, supporting this amendment. Voting. No, I'm voting for support. [[13:13:06]] For - 1, against - 1, no decision is taken. Similarly, I am voting on Amendment No. 3 of the Lawn to support this amendment. [[13:13:29]] For the The decision is not taken. Now the fourth amendment. Mikola Volodymyrovich Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u159	Dear colleagues, since we, the idea of the bill, are that the heads of the National Broadcasting Company are appointed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, that their appointment procedure is regulated, there must be an institution that controls the current, so to speak, activity. There's a choice for me, and on the committee, to create one before -- the public council, now -- there's a supervisory board. But the difficulty is that by rejecting my amendment, and my amendment is a rule of law that we don't do for a few years, where, if the Supreme Council assumes responsibility for the president of the National Broadcasting Company, it would have to form this council. Here I propose what was in the law, i.e. 9 – Supreme Council, 4 – President, 4 – public organizations. What do the authors suggest instead? They suggest that 2 will be from public organizations, not known who chooses them, two from factions that don't join the coalition, from opposition. And then the Kabmin approves. The Cabin confirms how many people he chooses. So there's absolutely no logic here. So either we need to preserve as it was, the supervisory council that the Supreme Council forms, then there's logic: we appointed this person and we control, or then we prescribe, if the government forms this supervisory council, more clearly where those people will be taken, because it's not clear how the Cabinet of Ministers' supervisory boards get into, for example, representatives of public organizations. So I have a proposition: either if my idea is supported, we leave this form of public council, or then when we work on the second reading, we form some other logic that is understandable how the government will control the activities of the President of the National Television and Radio Company.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u160	Please, the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u161	The purpose of the bill was to abolish the institution of public councils in general. That's how the committee defined it. My personal position is to leave them as they are. I support Tomenko's amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u162	Please, Hanna Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u163	The committee proposed, and the drafters of the bill, and I repeat, among the authors and representatives of BUTU are Andriy Portnov, and the representatives of the Prutnik and Lukas. So the committee suggested that we cancel the public councils and the statutes are approved by law, the bill provides for the approval of the statutes by decree of the Cabinet of Ministers. If we, if Parliament appoints heads of the National Radio Company, then Parliament is responsible for these people and has the right to ask for them here. And the public councils only wash away this responsibility of Parliament for appointed leadership. So I suggest you listen to the recommendations of the committee and the drafters.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u164	Dear colleagues, I am voting on Amendment 4 of the People's Deputy of Ukraine, Mikola Tomenka. [[13:17:03]] For-163 Correction not accepted. Amendment of the 5th People's Deputy Heratchenko. Is he insisting? No, it's not. Amendment No. 6 of the people's deputies Bagraev and Kondratjuk. It's counted. Should we put her to the vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u165	I understand. If they insist on confirming it. Amendment No. 7 of Irina Heratchenko. Don't insist. Amendment 8 Edward Prutnik. It's counted. Is there no objection? Please, Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u166	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. It's a big deal here that you can accept the amendment. The only thing we've probably passed on to all the presidents is the rule of the state. I don't see the need to limit the president of a television company to two terms after four years. And if a person meets his assignment, if he's a specialist in his field, if there's really no claim in the Supreme Council, because the Supreme Council does. Why limit this person to two terms? Once again, it's not exactly the right reference to what the President of the State said. The president of the state is one thing, and the head of the television or radio company is another. I propose to support this amendment. You can count on the exception of two terms that no more than two terms may be assigned to the head of the television and radio company. Let's take that.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u167	The committee ruled that two by four is eight years, that's enough. This is the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u168	Dear colleagues, let's do this. Let's put it to a vote like this. First, I'm going to put Edward Prutnik's entire support amendment. If it is supported, then Adam Ivanovich’s offer does not pass. If it is not supported, I will put to the vote to support this amendment by removing paragraph two from it on the right to appoint no more than two consecutive terms. This way. Is there no objection? So first, I put to the vote the entire amendment of our colleague Prutnik for her support. It's all right. [[13:19:42]] For 1 The decision is not taken. And now I am voting for support for the eighth amendment of Edward Prutnik with the deletion of paragraph two of this content: “The leaders of the National Television Company of Ukraine and the National Radio Company of Ukraine cannot be assigned to office more than two consecutive periods.” Please vote. [[13:20:19]] For 352 Correction accepted, deleting paragraph two from the eighth amendment. And now Amendment 9 to Final Position, please, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u169	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! The law that we are currently considering is called “Television and Radio Talk”. All of it. And this is about making a change to the Ukrainian Supreme Committee Act, which records the standard for both the appointment of the Supreme Council and the release of heads and other members of the National Bank Board, half of which is not the subject of consideration of this law, I want to say. And in this part of the amendment has to be rejected, it's absolutely no burden at all. And I'm very sorry that we didn't support the proper proposal of Mikli Tomenka, which, after not counting the entire law, may have a different meaning for someone else, but it makes a reasonable sense, a democratic sense it loses. Therefore, it would be desirable to return to that amendment at all, using the opportunity, and this amendment to the ninth, I ask for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u170	Dear colleagues! Please, the position of the committee, what was the motivation of the committee when it made completely different proposals to the law that did not apply to the subject and to the knowledge of the law?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u171	The committee was guided by the following logic: if we have an appointment before the parliamentary mandate, the single appointment of the heads of the National Broadcasting Company, obviously one of the profiling committees should be preparing this issue. This was the norm, so the committee voted in favour of the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u172	Please, Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u173	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, Your Honor Yuri Anatoliyovich, let me not agree with you, not agree with the fact that we are improving legislation rather than corrupting it. In fact, as Vitali says, we are now making substantial changes, sorry, Vitaliyovich, we are making substantial changes to the law, where we are changing the appropriateness of the one who appoints. And the absolutely logical amendment supported by the committee to make the changes and the committees is that they're looking ahead and making these proposals. I don't see any contradictions here, so I suggest you support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u174	Dear colleagues, let's work this way, I'm going to put this amendment all the way to the vote, if it's supported, it's going to be supported. If it's not supported, then we're going to have to vote on the first paragraph of the final clause on the taking of this law and all. So I vote in favour of Amendment 9 of the Prutnik People's Deputies. [[13:23:46]] For 350. Correction supported. So we've been through all the repairs. Committee proposal, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u175	The committee's proposal to support it in the second reading and generally there.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u176	Therefore, I would like to draw attention to the vote by the second reading committee and, as a whole, as a law, to draft a law amending the Ukrainian Television and Broadcasting Act to bring Ukraine into line with the Constitution. Registration number 3140. Please vote. [[13:24:34]] For-195 The decision is not taken. Therefore, a motion for re-reading is put to the vote, taking into account that a number of amendments are supported and some are not supported. In order for the bill to be complete. Do you understand the offer? The proposal to re-read the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Broadcasting Act is put to the vote. [[on bringing into conformity with the Constitution of Ukraine]] Registration number 3140. Please vote. [[13:25:23]] For 358 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! We were about to consider draft law registration number 3535 on government regulation in the field of gaming business. You and I have agreed that on May 14 we will consider this bill. Coupled with the next draft law banning gaming business in Ukraine. This is registration number 4268. That's why I'm offering it now. Please support her. We're putting Bill 3535 down by May 14th. But let us vote, honourable colleagues, on the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act on the Prohibition of Game Business in Ukraine, so that it can be considered on the committee. I'm voting on this proposal. On the inclusion in the agenda of the bill banning gaming business in Ukraine. Registration number 4268. Please vote. [[13:26:47]] For 382 Decision taken. Once again, on May 14, we're going to be looking at these two bills, as we agreed to. A draft Ukrainian Procurator's Office Act is being announced for consideration. Registration number 2491. The rapporteur is the Head of the Committee for the Legislative Protection of Law Enforcement Activities, Victor Dmitrovich Schwetz. Please, Victor Dmitrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u177	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Your Honor Vladimir Mikhailovich! I have the honour to report to you on the bill as one of the authors of this bill, as well as as as a reporter on behalf of the Main Committee of the Supreme Council. As you recall, Ukraine’s valid prosecutorial law was passed on November 5, 1991, and came into force on December 1, 1991. Since 1993, more than 20 laws have been passed to date to amend and supplement this law. The unscheduled amendment to the current Procurator’s Act has led to the failure of the Ukrainian Constitution to comply with individual provisions. In this connection, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine has repeatedly declared its individual positions unconstitutional, and in another respect it has given official interpretations. Thus, the Ukrainian Prosecutor's Office, despite the numerous amendments to the Prosecutor's Office Act in view of the preservation of its old statutes, remains unreformed in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine. Last year our committee held such large-scale committee hearings to discuss the reform of the prosecutorial authorities. An honest and frank discussion took place, many of you, honourable colleagues, participated in these hearings, all the MP factions were represented, as well as the Committees on Legal Policy, Justice, Combating Organized Crime and Corruption. Our position was expressed by members of the General Prosecutor's Office's College, district prosecutors, authoritative scientists, representatives of public and international organizations. A draft Ukrainian Procurator’s Act, registration number 2491, has been prepared for the implementation of hearing recommendations by the working group. It was signed by 14 national deputies, representatives of four factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u178	Let me finish. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u179	Which suggests a serious preparation of the work that preceded the registration of this bill. In view of this, the following is the basis for the bill. Since article 123 of the Ukrainian Constitution provides that the organization and order of the procurator’s organs are governed by law, the laws we have prepared have given detailed regulations to the prosecutor’s office, which are defined by the relevant provisions of the Constitution. The functions of the Public Prosecutor's Office are clearly consistent with the Constitution. Each of them has a separate chapter in the bill. The bill also provides a definition of the prosecutor’s office. The novels of the bill are that it prescribes a procedure for examining the prosecution’s appeals and accusing the prosecutor’s decisions. There is a new chapter four, which establishes control over the activities of the Public Prosecutor’s Office, and there are clear reasons for the early termination of the Attorney General’s mandate and the grounds for his mistrust. Public and professional organizations of prosecutors are also given attention. A separate chapter on the regulation of prosecutorial acts, improved legal regulation of the personnel of the prosecutor’s office. A requirement has been laid down for the declaration of revenue by the prosecutors. The Institute for the Retirement of Prosecutors is established on separate grounds. The U.S. Attorney's Office should obey only the law. And that's what we tried to put into the new Procurator's Law. The committee reviewed the draft law at its meeting and decided to recommend it to the Supreme Council as a basis. The Executive Office of the Supreme Council supports this position of the committee. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support the bill and vote for its approval as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u180	Thank you, Victor Dmitriovich. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for the bill. It's a recording. I'd like you to put the national MPs on the sign-up table. Andrew School, BUT faction. Get Verni Dubov ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u181	The school of Andrey, the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. I think, of course, that the bill that was proposed by the committee of profile, which has just reported to the committee's head, is worth discussing and supporting, because, ultimately, we can now claim that the relevant law will normalize and well resolve the situation that has arisen in the prosecution's office right now. We do not, of course, have the notion of a “holy cow”, we have to give a clear and qualitative answer to the question of how we can influence the situation in the prosecutor's office, the anger in the sense that we are not allowed to conduct investigations independently, I think, the defense of God, we have never, the Supreme Council, sinned with similar interferences, but to normalize, to regulate activities is necessary. So I think it's right that our faction will support a similar bill and point out that when we talk about the responsibility of prosecutors, this responsibility should not be formal, but real. And in order to realize our desire not only for legislators but also for societies to have a responsible body, we must properly enforce and regulate it through existing legislation. I believe that some standards can be discussed, but there is a need for a discussion in the Supreme Council that there is a second reading procedure. Although, in the end, there are many aspects that I personally like and perceive in factions. So I think a similar bill would have to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u182	Ivan Vernidubov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u183	Dear colleagues, indeed, the changes that have been adopted in the Procurator's Act have been cosmetic throughout its function, according to such a figurative expression by the Venice Commission. Such adoption of the law is necessary. The faction of the regions will vote in favour of the draft law in the first reading, although of course I would like to talk about it. Well, we're going to adopt the law, but psychologically, it's still what everyone's been fighting against, so there's no so-called general, total surveillance, but it's psychologically still. We often see from television screens, such as the Head of State giving instructions or instructions to the Attorney General to check whether the roads are being built, whether it is proper to pay for children to be raised, or whether they are being treated or otherwise? This is all, of course, no longer in the Constitution or the Public Prosecutor's Act, but it continues. And for example, we separated the prosecutor's office from the executive branch, not from the executive branch, but in places like the governors hold their meetings on Mondays, and the district attorneys sit there. It seems that these are either pocket prosecutors or they come because they lead. They seem to be subject to the governor, not the other way around, to oversee those acts if they are illegal, and they have to accept some kind of document. But in general, I think we need to adopt a law. The only observation, the only comment that can become the subject of the job, is the appointment of a prosecutor of autonomy. Indeed, there are problems, some problems, because the Constitution on the Autonomous Republic of Crimea needs reconciliation when it comes to appointing the Attorney General. And we can't just skip what reconciliation is by the Public Prosecutor's Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u184	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u185	It is indeed in the Constitution of the Republic, because according to some standards it has priority, the Constitution of Crimea, over other laws of Ukraine. Therefore, some adjustments will have to be made before the second reading. I'm asking everyone to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u186	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. [[Registration number 2491]] The committee's offering to take it as a basis. I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee on the basis of the draft law on the Prosecutor's Office of Ukraine. Registration number 2491. Please vote. [[13:37:19]] For 363 Decision taken. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Protection of Economic Competition is being announced for consideration. The rapporteur is the deputy head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Svetlana Mikhailovna Moroz. Correspondent is the head of the Economic Policy Committee subcommittee, Kostuyev Aleksyyyyyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u187	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! The bill before you deals with two groups of issues. The first is the refinement of the circle of alloys, connections, and other economic concentration of economic operators who need prior permission from the State in the Antimonopoly Committee. The reason for a mandatory prior request for such a permit is that the participants have exceeded the concentration of the threshold values of the realisation or the value of the assets, which is generally accepted in the world. However, in Ukraine these thresholds were last reviewed in 2002 and their equivalent of 12 million euros in all participants and 1 million euros in two in the world and at least one in Ukraine, both in absolute size and in terms of GDP, are too low. As a result, the procedures for obtaining a permit that involves a certain amount of time and expense require participants and concentrations that cannot significantly affect the state of competition, and this has a negative impact on the investment process. Therefore, the bill foresees an increase in thresholds in general according to the equivalent of 1 to 4 and from 12 to 50 million euros. If there is only one participant in Ukraine, the threshold for all participants is proposed to set the equivalent of millions of euros. In addition, the bill clarifies the mechanisms for applying the simplified procedure for allowing concentration. Legislation today provides for two such mechanisms: a formal decision by the Antimonopoly Committee and without it, i.e. on condition. But the reason why a mechanism or mechanism is used is not provided for in the law today. Therefore, the least burdensome way to obtain concentration permits without formal decision making is virtually not applied. That's why we're offering.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u188	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u189	when a procedure is applied. Another change involves improving the mechanisms to stop wrongdoing in the form of misuse by market operators. Today, article 19 of the Law is formulated in such a way that the practice extends only to the case of the buyer’s dependence on the seller. But as the practice of the Antimonopoly Committee, in particular on business networks, shows, there are major problems as a result of the dependence of sellers — suppliers of goods from buyers — on large commercial networks. And so we suggest that we make it clear that misuse of the market position can take place in both cases. The adoption of the bill will create conditions to reduce administrative pressure on operators, improve the conditions of entry into markets, and strengthen the legal protection of individual categories of operators, particularly small and medium -sized entrepreneurs. Please support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u190	Thank you, too. Have a seat, please. From the Committee Alexeiyovich Kostuyev Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u191	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! On 24 December 2008, at a meeting of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Economic Policy, the bill submitted by Kabmin was considered: amending the Law on Protection of Economic Competition. The bill proposes to amend articles 19, 24 and 28 of the Law on Protection of Economic Competition. What's the point? Svetlana Moroz, in principle, explained the substance of these changes. It is a matter of increasing the value of the assets of the participants in the concentration or the volume of goods they have sold that require the authorization of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, well, and improving the manner in which such authorization is granted. In the opinion of the Committee, the adoption of the bill should create conditions for reducing undue administrative pressure on operators and would help improve the conditions for entry of investors, including our Ukrainian markets. The Committee on Economic Policy recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Protection of Economic Competition Number 3436 to be considered on first reading and adopted as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u192	Thank you. Yes, is there a need to discuss it? Nobody insists? No, then I'm voting on a proposal by the adoption committee based on a draft law. Registration number 3436 on amendments to the Law on Protection of Economic Competition. Please vote. [[13:43:26]] For 347 Decision taken. A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the violation of the rules on the carriage of passengers and goods by road is being announced for consideration. Registration number 2535. Reporter – Deputy Minister of Transport and Communications Leonid Grigorovich Sergienko, co-rapporteur – Head of the Committee on Law Enforcement, Viktor Dmitrović Schwetz. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u193	Dear Head, honourable national deputies, you have before you a draft Ukrainian Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the violation of the rules on the carriage of passengers and goods by road. Registration number 2535 from 22.05.2008 The need for adoption of the draft law is this. That, as of today, only motor vehicles are responsible for the infringement of the legislation in the field of motor transport, which took effect in April 2006. The law does not define the responsibility of other participants in the transport process — drivers, officials responsible for the organization of transports, citizens, operators who carry out their own transport without hiring drivers, and they are direct violators of the rules on passenger and cargo transport that affect the safety of the road transport operations. Also for three years, the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Violations does not apply, that is, no cases of administrative violations involving breaches of the rules on the provision of passenger transport services and the rules on the use of motor vehicles. The draft law provides that drivers, as well as operators, who carry out their business in the field of motor vehicles without hiring drivers, are involved in administrative responsibility for commissioning offences in the area of passenger and freight transport, namely: unjustified refusal to pay for passenger transport, taxis for which no taxi is installed or no taxi service, passenger and cargo transport without documents or undocumented documents, disruption of the driving regime and rest of motor vehicles, violation of conditions and rules for international passenger and cargo transport. The officials, the owners, are drawn to the executive. directly for the admission of drivers, medical and technical personnel who serve drivers and vehicles who do not meet the qualifications and other requirements of other responsible standards in the field of transport safety.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u194	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u195	The implementation of this project is aimed at increasing the responsibility of participants in the transport process for the implementation of auto-transport legislation. In considering the draft law in Minfin, Mineconomy, IMF, Minusty, the Antimonopoly Committee, and the holding of a company, positive conclusions were reached. Please support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u196	Yes, thank you. Have a seat, please. Victor Dmitrovich Schwetz, head of the committee. Committee decision, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u197	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Today, thousands of individuals work in the automobile market in Ukraine who provide services from motor vehicles without a license to do business. They are thus the most dangerous road users. The result of this illegal activity is a large number of road and transport accidents involving non-legalized operators. The proposed draft law proposes to amend a number of articles of the Code of Administrative Offences relating to the Transport of Passengers and Goods, namely, Article 133, bearing a badge of one, 133, bearing a badge of two, 229, of the Code of Administrative Offences. The changes and additions to these articles extend the grounds for drawing wrongdoers to administrative responsibility for failing to implement the European Agreement on the Work of Transport Crews. It is proposed to establish responsibility for the carriage of passengers and cargo without documents or with improper documents, for carrying taxis that do not operate, for disrupting the order of transporting groups of children or tourists, for failing to comply with the driver’s work and rest regime, and so on. After reviewing the bill, the Supreme Council Committee on Law Enforcement took the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the law on first reading. The chief scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council's apparatus is of the same opinion. The implementation of the draft bill does not require spending from the State budget, but it will allow for an increase of almost fourfold in the state budget. In preparing the bill for consideration in the second reading, the committee will take into account the comments made by the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, the subject.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u198	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u199	The amendments made by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences in connection with the adoption on 24 September 2009 of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts on Road Safety. Please support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u200	Thank you. Dear colleagues! If there are any desirable ones for discussion, please sign in. And we continue the morning session for 15 minutes. There's a recording going on. National Deputy Kolesnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u201	I ask you to pass the word to Chechev Mikhail Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u202	Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov, please. Next, Nicholas Shershun.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u203	Dear colleagues! The bill proposes to amend the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences involving the Transport of Passengers and Goods by Road. It is proposed to improve the legal framework for the exercise of State control in road transport, to specify the authority of the State on road traffic control, and to ensure compliance with Ukraine’s requirements. It should be noted that the sanctions of certain articles that change provide for the responsibility of citizens who are subject to entrepreneurial activity. Since chapter five of the Ukrainian Civil Code uses the term physical person, an entrepreneur, to make appropriate changes to the project and to bring its terminology into line with the Ukrainian Civil Code. The bill also foresees a significant increase in sanctions, including a fine of up to 40, 50, 60, 80, and even up to 100 untaxed minimum citizens’ income. But in view of the fact that article 53 of the Criminal Code defines fines for committing crimes between 30 and thousands of untaxed minimums of citizens’ income, the setting of similar fines seems to be somewhat paradoxical from the point of view of common logic. In the course of administrative misconduct, the social danger of which is less than that of crimes is called for a stricter responsibility. The faction of the Party of the Regions proposes that this bill be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u204	Mikola Shershun, Lithuanian Block faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u205	Mikola Shershun, “Block Lithuania”. Dear colleagues, few have heard of the way the driver and the car carrier, in paws, follow the rules of transportation of passengers and cargo. This is especially true of large cities, where there is considerable demand for such services, unfortunately, the culture of road conduct is shaped by the rules of constant violations of the rights of order and, in some cases, the dignity and dignity of our citizens. For example, despite the legal provision for the transfer of certain categories of passengers, these are usually older ones. Drivers who do not want to lead someone free of charge, unceremoniously, and harshly insult people without sound reasons. Therefore, I believe that the bill provides for a fine to be imposed on drivers of transport equipment and business entities for unwarranted refusal to do so. At the same time, I'm drawing your attention to the conditions in which people work in the field of passenger transport. Many bus and coach drivers are arrivals who try to earn some money and thus work overtime, without rest, and without adequate living conditions. All of this leads to road accidents, as well as worsening transport services. At the same time, the bill imposes fines on both officials and citizens involved in entrepreneurial activities and on drivers themselves. I believe that the standard should be directed specifically to the protection of human rights, to the mode of work and rest, not to the money that they earn from hard work. In general, I believe that the bill can be adopted in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u206	Thank you. Dear colleagues! The bill was concluded, and the speakers spoke correctly of the weak and the strong. On the one hand, we need to protect those who are the car carrier, and on the other hand, let us take care of those who are entitled to transport, and sometimes this right is simply not being exercised. So I'd like to ask, fellow honourable Members, let's make a compromise decision, namely, on the basis of voting this bill, and we're going to have to take into account all the critical points that have been made in the process of considering this bill. I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the violation of the rules on the carriage of passengers and goods by road. Registration number, 2535 again. Please vote. [[13:54:48]] For 185 The decision is not taken. I'm voting on a motion to re-read. Registration number 2535. [[13:55:15.]] For 193 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. A draft Act on Amendments and Recognition is being announced for consideration in such cases as have become invalid, some Ukrainian legislation on the activities of the Ukrainian State Criminal Enforcement Service. The rapporteur is Justice Minister Onichuk Mikola Vasilovich. Correspondent is the head of the committee's subcommittee on law enforcement activities, Vasil Mikolayovich Gritsak.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u207	Reverend Head! Dear National Deputies! It is the Act on the Enforcement of Legislation in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on State Enforcement. And the bill provides, inter alia, for amendments to more than 40 acts of Ukrainian legislation in connection with the approval of the Supreme Council and the adoption of the Act on State Enforcement. For example. Until now, certain acts or other acts present the notions of “spectingent” as “chief of the correctional colony” as “convicted” and a number of others. In addition, it is anticipated that the decision to recognize persons with alcoholism will cease to be valid, more than eight acts of legislation relating to the compulsory treatment of persons with alcoholism as well as to their labour retraining. Please support, and once again, the emphasis is on bringing legislation into line with the current Act on the Ukrainian State Criminal Enforcement Service. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u208	Thank you, Mikola Vasilovich! The committee's position is Gretzak Vasil Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u209	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Bill 2783 proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to implement paragraph 4 of the Ukrainian Act on the Ukrainian State Criminal Enforcement Service. What he said in his report, the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, I confirm. Let me give you a little bit more accurate just what's changing, what's happening today and what's changing, just a few examples. Today, this is a “criminal-executive system”, a “spectingent”, a “head of the place of deprivation of liberty”, we are changing to “organisms and institutions of execution” and “insulators” and “convicted” and “persons taken into custody”, a “chief of the institution of execution of sentences”, such as “veteran of the State criminal enforcement service” and so on. The bill was considered at a committee meeting and a positive decision was taken with the suggestion that the Supreme Council should adopt the law as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u210	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Can we put a committee proposal to the vote? Nobody insists? The proposal for a committee on adoption is based on the draft Act on Amendments and Recognition in such a way that some Ukrainian legislative acts on the activities of the Ukrainian State Criminal Enforcement Service have been lost. Registration number 2783. Please vote. [[13:59:18]] For 359 Decision taken. A draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. What's the big deal? I continue my meeting for 15 minutes in the morning. In 15 minutes to 14 hours. There was a proposal to put it to the vote for adoption in second reading and in general as a law. Who denies it? Is there no objection? I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft Law on Amendments and Recognition in such a way that some Ukrainian legislation on the activity of the Ukrainian State Criminal Enforcement Service for adoption in the second reading and in general, as a law, registration number 2783. Please vote. [[14:00:26]] For 366 The law is passed. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine, registration number 2710, 2710-D, is being announced for consideration. [[concerning the deployment of military personnel to State bodies and institutions]] Reporter – Minister of Defence of Ukraine Yehanurov Yuri Ivanovich, and will also act as Rapporteur of the National Deputy of Ukraine Petruk Mikola Mikolajovich, co-rapporteur – Head of the Committee on National Security and Defence Gricenko Anatoly Stepanovich. Please, Yuri Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u211	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished national MPs, the purpose of drafting the bill is to regulate certain issues related to the conduct of Ukrainian citizens of the military service, namely, to expand the list of bodies defined by the Ukrainian Laws on Military Duty and Military Service and the social and legal protection of military personnel, members of their families by state-owned enterprises and personnel with enhanced military and physical training, to which they may be assigned to leave military service. And making changes to the final regulations with a view to granting Ukraine the "On Military Duty and Military Service" Act with a view to granting powers to the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine with regard to ensuring the fulfilment of the military duty provided for by this law by the state authority, whose duties are composed of military personnel. The fact is that valid laws provide for the possibility of shipping only to state authorities, institutions, organizations, and government enterprises as self - fledged entities, as well as licensees, are not State bodies, institutions, and organizations. And it's also about 14 people with advanced physical military training who are subordinated to the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine, the local authorities. And we ask that they may be assembled by military personnel deployed to the military service. In addition, the Ukrainian Security Service, the State Protection Authority, are not central authorities of executive power, nor are the services of external intelligence. Therefore, it is also necessary to make changes to the law. Another very important question. The normalization of this issue is related to the need to preserve the existing unified civil-military system of the Ukrainian air traffic organization as part of the state-owned air traffic service company Ukraine. Ukraine’s unified civil-military system of air traffic organization is an integral part of the European air traffic system and is fully in line with ICAO — an international organization.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u212	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u213	Civil aviation is considered the most progressive among European countries, and similar systems are used in Germany, Poland, Sweden and elsewhere. I would ask the honourable national MPs to support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u214	Yes, thank you, Yuri Ivanovich. Mikola Mikolaiovich Petruk, please, on the bill 2710-d.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u215	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, honourable national deputies, making appropriate changes to the laws of Ukraine, will limit the possibility of deploying military personnel to the state-owned air traffic service company of Ukraine to perform tasks in the interests of the defence of the state and its security by leaving them in the military service. An existing edition of the aforementioned laws of Ukraine provides that military personnel may be assigned to military service only to state authorities, institutions, and organizations. The bill proposes to expand public authorities, institutions, and organizations to which it is possible to deploy military personnel, or state - owned companies, to operate air traffic. The Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Transport and Communications supports the position regarding the normalization of matters related to the deployment of military personnel to the state - owned air traffic service firm of Ukraine and the abandonment of military service. Please support this bill and help the military to be in the legislative field. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u216	Thank you. Head of the Committee on National Security and Defence, Gricenko Anatoly Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u217	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I'll explain the point very briefly. Two bills: the first, the government, the second, the MP. Deputies: Nicholas Petruk and Alexander Kuzmuk of the Party of the Regions We were looking for a solution. Because the government project is unable to support it, and no MP has supported it. Why? It's proposed that any state-owned enterprise could be operated by a military officer. A company of tens of thousands. Businesses do business. And we have cases where Colonel Volosin, former manager, sits for seven years. That's why we're against it. But we decided to go to a government meeting just to support the ability to maintain the single air traffic control system that the Secretary of Defense was talking about. That is why the MP bill provides for the possibility of deploying military personnel in Ukraine. The question arose, particularly from the faction of Communists, and I explained about the warlords. In military aircraft, members of the committee consider this to be an unanimity consensus position, where military personnel can work from a reserve that is released with the right to wear military uniforms. And that's perfectly normal practice. By the way, General Kravczuk has recently led the biggest man in stock. Therefore, I would like to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u218	Dear colleagues, is there a proposal to discuss the bill? If there is, please. Whoever insists, sign up. We should consider another bill to release the minister. Please indicate the name of the national MPs who are registered. None. Dear colleagues, I'd like to re-enact your well-known proposal to the committee. The committee proposes bill 2710 to reject, and bill 2710 to vote it as a basis and as a law. [[government]] [[MP]] But in accordance with the Rules, I will put to the vote the adoption on the basis of draft Law 2710 amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[government]] [[concerning the deployment of military personnel to State bodies and institutions]] To accept it as a foundation. [[14:07:32]] For 210 The decision is not taken. The thing is, we could say that we didn't make it back and forth if we didn't have an alternative, and now there's an alternative. Do you understand? I don't have the right to vote like that. Therefore, honourable colleagues, there is now a motion for adoption on the basis of a draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[concerning the deployment of military personnel to State bodies and institutions]] Registration number 2710. The authors are Ukrainian national deputies Petruk and Kuzmuk. Please vote. [[14:08:23]] For 370. Decision taken. The committee's proposal was to adopt the bill as a law. Is there no objection? Beyond any objection, I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and generally as the law the basis of the draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[concerning the deployment of military personnel to State bodies and institutions]] Registration number 2710-d. Please vote. [[14:09:06]] For 378 Decision taken. The law is passed. Dear colleagues, since we have a minister present, if you don't mind, let's consider a draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian laws on the enforcement and modernization of arms and military technology of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. [[Registration number 3514]] The rapporteur is Minister of Defence of Yehanurov Yuri Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u219	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Honourable National MPs, bill aimed at regulating and defining the powers of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in the area of competence, modernization of arms, military technology of the Ukrainian Armed Forces through changes and additions to the laws of Ukraine: “On the protection of the rights to inventions and useful models” and “On the Armed Forces of Ukraine”. It complements existing legal norms regarding the use of patented invention without the consent of the patent holder in the event of his unfounded refusal to grant a license to use the State's defence invention under the permission of the Cabinet of Ministers, and refers to the authority of the Government of Ukraine to establish an order for ensuring the integrity, technical fitness and modernization of weapons, the military technology of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. So we're addressing at the legislative level the issue of increasing the existing weapons, military technology, including foreign production. These activities will be carried out by national institutions and enterprises. I want to thank the two Committees of the Supreme Council for the issues of national security and defence, as well as the Committee of the Supreme Council on Science and Education for the work they have done with us in preparing this bill for reading. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council made a proposal to exclude the addition to article 9 as well as a new edition of paragraph 4 of article 10 of the Ukrainian Armed Forces Act, which reads: "..that are not subject to copyright supervision." We don't deny it. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u220	Thank you, Yuri Ivanovich. Please take the seat of the committee. Anatoly Stepanovich Grizenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u221	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The bill is very important so that we, as Ukraine, as a state, as a government, can make decisions about the technology that we have and solve the issue of resilience, even if there are problems with this technique on some side. The government has implemented the project, and we suggest that we accept it today on the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u222	Dear colleagues, no objection? I am voting on a proposal by the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the enforcement and modernization of arms and military equipment of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Registration number 3514. Please vote. [[14:12:06]] For 372 But the position of the committee was in the first reading only. Please, the speaker of the committee's head. If there's no objection, let's put it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u223	Dear colleagues, we already had a problem today when we were revoting the law that we passed so quickly. If we take into account the observation made by the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, now it's protocol, and the Kabmin in the person of the Secretary of Defense agrees, I think we can vote in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u224	Can we, Yuri Ivanovich? Please. Turn the microphone on there, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u225	Ladies and gentlemen, we agree with the editorial proposed by the Chief Executive of the Supreme Council on these amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u226	Dear colleagues, then we have every reason to take into account the comments and suggestions made by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration to put the second reading and, in general, the law, registration number 3514. Please vote. [[14:13:23]] For 372 The law is passed. And, dear fellows, lastly, after a break at 16 hours, we will be discussing draft laws from the President's veto, as decided by the Conciliation Council. How would you feel about us now adopting 3066 is a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Prevention of Immunodeficiency Syndrome and Social Protection? One minute, it's about getting these people a year off in summer or another, hand time for them to reach 16 years of age. It's basically a social law. If you did not object, the minister would be asked to speak briefly on this matter. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u227	Let me out of here. Thank you. Please, Your Honor, back up. What is it? Today, with regard to children who have contracted an immunodeficiency virus, the law gives certain rights, guarantees only to the mother of the child. The point is that the same rights are granted to the father. Because families have different relationships, and even in general, comparisons in rights are a clear trend. So I would like to support you as a whole. Science experiment also agrees. This is the right, short, and clear law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m0.u228	Dear colleagues, no objection? That is why I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft law, registration number 3066, amending the Ukrainian Law on Prevention of Immunodeficiency Immunodeficiency Immunodeficiency and Social Protection. Again, registration number 3066. Please vote on the basis. [[14:15:22]] For 367 Decision taken. The committee’s proposal included a minister, or government, who accepted it in second reading and generally as a law. Is there no objection? I am voting for a second reading proposal and, in general, a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Prevention of Immunodeficiency Immunodeficiency Immunodeficiency and Social Protection. Registration number 3066. Please vote. [[2:16:09]] For 359 The law is passed. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. We'll start the evening session at 4:00. Thank you.
