ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:01]] Cards were registered in the 395 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, I give you an overview of the plenary work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from 17 to 20 February 2009. Six plenary sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine were held, and 72 issues of the agenda were considered. As a result of the review: 25 laws and 57 regulations were passed, including 12 laws on ratification of international treaties; 15 bills were adopted as a basis; three bills were sent for re-reading to the committee; one bill was returned to the committee with further submission for re-reading; 21 bills and draft regulations were rejected; and 101 parliamentary requests were made and sent to the authorities. Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules on Tuesday, we have 30 minutes for the presentations of authorized factions with proposals, announcements, statements, messages, and so forth. I'd like the factions to sign up for the performance. There's a recording going on, fellow officers of honor. Herman Hanna Mikolayevna, faction of the Party of the Regions. Please. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u2	Please give the word to Mikola Janovich Azarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u3	Mikola Janović Azarov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Next is Michael Schershung.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u4	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Currently, the Ukrainian authorities, through the President and the Government of Ukraine, have resumed negotiations with the International Monetary Fund on the granting of another tranche of credit for Ukraine. How does this raise an interesting question: for Ukraine or for someone else? The first question that arises is how the $4.5 billion is spent. Is it more than $4.7 already received by Ukraine? Where are they going? How did they stabilize the situation? Has the situation improved from October to March? Did the first tranche play a positive role? That's the main question. It is possible to obtain money that is unknown to their children and then to count on it and to place a cross on Ukraine's economic development. Regrettably, during the crisis, Ukraine was with a very weak Government and with weak power. What is the weakness of that power? First of all, because it does not want to see the real situation in the country, that it spends all its efforts on obtaining credit, borrowing instead of presenting the people and parliament with a clear anti-crisis programme, which is part of the real budget for 2009. The fact that we have a completely unrealistic budget tells us much and above all the outcome of the budget implementation. Those who have four actions of arithmetic, i.e. they can at least multiply and divide, I'll specifically name a few numbers. 240 billion, gross, we've got to get revenue. To date, only 21.5 billion have been received. Divide and multiply, and answer for yourself at least the simple question of whether or not the budget of Ukraine is real. It was no accident that Ukraine was the worst in all Eastern European countries. It is because we are ruled by a weak government and a weak power in general. Under what conditions might the International Monetary Fund give us a second tranche? Maybe he will! And can the Party of the Regions agree to these conditions? Let's just name a few. A lot of conditions, just a few. Can we agree, for example, with a pension reform that increases the retirement age, while in Ukraine the lowest, lowest life expectancy among our people. With such an increase in retirement, it is likely that many simply will not live to see this pension. Can we agree that our population should pay for gas and housing services at so-called world prices? And let us remember for a moment the promises of those who have come to power in a wave of populism that we will provide our people with cheap gas of our own production. Where is this cheap gas of its own production? Can we agree that during such a difficult time for the country to increase taxes and abolish the simplified tax system for small and medium-sized businesses? And as far as power did not try to camouflage those positions, however, if it wanted money, it would be forced to pursue such policies. We're against that kind of policy. Therefore, there can be no other opinion from the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u5	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u6	Not only do I want to warn this room of the impossibility of emancipating such conditions, but I also want to state that the Party of the Regions will do everything on our part to prevent such loans from being adopted under such conditions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u7	Mikola Haritonovich Shershun. The next one will be Oleg Belarus, the faction of the Yulia Tymoshenko. Or who will come out of the faction? Identify yourself, please. Ivan Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u8	Mikola Shershun, Block Lithuania. Dear Head, distinguished national MPs, distinguished by our radio audiences, it's a shame to talk about it, but in addition to the economic crisis today, we are increasingly experiencing a demographic crisis. According to the first January of this year, there were only 46 million citizens in Ukraine. We live in peaceful times, in a world with sufficiently high technological developments. Yet, people die far more than they are born, and statistics on infant mortality are especially painful. Last year alone, 5,000 children under the age of 1 died in Ukraine. Whose fault is that? Are young Ukrainians so selfish that they do not want to have and raise children? I am sure that they were happy to become parents if conditions were created on a well - held basis to encourage young families to give birth to offspring. Today special attention needs to be paid to the issue of the prevention of childhood illness and the creation of a modern material and technical base of obstetric structures, because the health of our nation depends on what conditions young mothers will give birth to their children. I'm sure we've all been asked these questions. Last week, when I met with the voters, I had to face the crisis of solving the problems of motherhood and childhood in the city of Ternopol and in the entire region of Ternopil. The material and technical base of obstetric structures available here is twice as much as necessary. With this in mind, local authorities took on the retraining and reconstruction of the hospital’s therapeutic corps, number three, for a maternity home of 200 beds and a women’s consultation last year. This maternity home is to become a modern home for the whole Western region. It provides for the opening of 15 individual and family maternity wards, the resuscitation of newborns, and one - city joint wards for the mother and the child. Of course, the project design documentation takes into account the use of a range of new technologies, especially the acquisition of new medical equipment, air treatment systems, water and others, many, as I said, new technologies. Sounds like a fairy tale to future moms. Yet, in practice, things are not so good. The biggest problem is that construction is done exclusively at the expense of the local budget. The total cost of this project at prices in 2007 is over 63 million dollars, and the cost of construction work is almost 39 million dollars. Five million dollars have been used today. At the same time, subsidies from the State Budget were not allocated for various reasons, which threatened not only the further construction of the complex but also the preservation of the results of the work already done. In this connection, the Lithuanian Bloc called on the Cabinet of Ministers to find the opportunity to finance reconstruction and the construction of a maternity center in Ternopol. Let us not only declare our love and attention to our children but also confirm our words with practical action. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u9	Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko, the faction of the Yulia Tymoshenko, to prepare for the Communist faction, is it written? Is the Queen going to perform? Please, Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u10	Dear Head, colleagues, dear voters, the motive for this talk was two seemingly ordinary events. The first is yesterday's Conciliation Council, where once again, the government's responsibility for everything and emotional and indignant has been raised, from financing a local hospital to unsold coal. It is as if there are no local authorities in the country, as if the private owners of billionaires had been thrown into the water, as if there are no daily drafts of laws that help both at this difficult time. We claim that there is everything, and that is the desire to accept it in some, for it is not politically advantageous and in this the great tribulation of a great country, which continues to tear apart conflicts, interpersons, and intrigues of politicians. The second event is an international economic agrarian conference held in Kiev last week, echoing the previous conclusion and this is why. All the participants were literally impressed by the statement by Governor Saucenka of Belgrade. The bottom line: A united effort, calmly, without the hysteria of howling, solves all the crisis issues, brings about global reforms. In an area still considered to be an island of socialism, it is active, such as the earth’s market. But how wisely everything is organized. The country alone has the priority to buy land from peasants. She was in the local government and bought them out, and then she transferred them into a long-term lease for better investment projects, really, to her effective owners. And the conditions are tough: banning the change of destination, mandatory construction of animal complexes, and restoration of the social sphere. And the new owners went for it. The money is taken into account by the Land Bank, and this is the main substance of the completed land reform. It's not the wholesale, it's the payoff for the long-term loan. It was with these mechanisms that the neighbors began to regenerate both tractor and combustible machinery. Unfortunately, we don't have that. And that's essentially why our flags and the Herson combiner, and the Harkowe tractor, and a lot more. An example is that as early as 2001, we adopted a good earthly codex. There it was clearly stated that for four months in Ukraine all laws would be adopted to ensure the completion of land reform. It took not four months, but two to four years, and it is now there. The village is trampled on the ground, including for this reason. Do we have a chance, as they say, to move from the dead? Very doubtful. Because, first of all, in Ukraine, nowhere, politics, unfortunately, continues to dominate the economy. Borrow for yourself: 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012 - every year the presidential, local, local mayors, heads and parliamentary elections. They say it's not for the economy. And secondly, during a difficult period of crisis, how reforms are being implemented now, either decisively, and there is healing, but it takes strong united power and political will, or it freezes when there is no such thing. What we have today in Ukraine does not need comments. But life is constantly moving forward, and it is no longer knocking, but it is slamming at our door. In Ukraine, large farms were preserved for government support and rent. And that attracts interested investors. The leading domestic companies are now growing the earth in processing. Lencom-Ukraine has already leased 115 thousand hectares. Agroholding “Mria” – 120, “Kernergroup” – 250,000, and “Start of Kiev” – 160,000, “Renaissance of Capital” – over 200,000 hectares and so on. In general, these powerful integrated compounds are already processing about 10 percent of the agri-goods and producing almost half of the country’s plant production. This modern-day high-tech profitable production requires stable and understandable rules of play. Are they in order of the day? It's been a long time. Are we the worst white people? Projects of the relevant laws date back to the week since 2003. The situation with pension reform is similar. We don't know that after 2-3 years of retirement in Ukraine there will be more than the workers. And the answer is only for us in this room. Similarly, health, education, and energy are all the same. And there are all the suggestions in the room. They may be imperfect, but there is a process of improvement, only to begin. We don't, we don't, we don't, we don't, we don't, we don't, we don't, we don't, we don't, we don't, we And everyone wants it to be better, and they want it to be the other way around. And someone here wants to win? Naughty people. All the issues are included in the order of the day per week. Voting will show whether we have a unified common sense, whether these painful issues, including the parliamentary benefits, will be handled by other, more intelligent politicians. Hopefully for the better, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u11	National MP Kzarykov, Communist Party faction, U.K.A. Please prepare Martinenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u12	Respectable voters, respectable people of Ukraine! On instructions from the trade union of road and road transport workers in the Odessa region, members of the All-Ukrainian Trade Union Organization for Freight Drivers, I would like to announce to you the start of an indefinite strike by freighters. Last week, a meeting was held in the main hall of the Federation of Trade Unions, the hall was unable to accommodate all those who wanted to, the people crowded around the windows, crowded in the aisles and demanded, demanded, demanded, that the authorities fulfil all the conditions for the exercise of their constitutional powers. Over 25 ATPs reported on the situation in the field of freight. The meeting began with a sad moment, minutes of silence. As you know, the second working man has already left his life. The reason is the smudge that took power on the neck of its citizens, in a direct sense. Two healthy, strong people have drowned in the last 10 days. Reason? The deaf, the black, the cold corner where the people have taken power, the anti-national power, the criminal power. All the workers are up in the hall. And, you know, when they were stinging their fists, there was a stillness of the grave, and only a cry: 'Son of a bitch! "When a working man is 20, 25, 30 years old and a young family is forced to go into a choke, it is already the sentence of power. The meeting took place with great intensity, unprecedented activity of the entire hall and the Bureau. As we know, hundreds today, thousands of truck drivers have lost their jobs. Tax and credit fraud, a lack of understanding by the authorities left thousands of families unaccounted for. In addition, banks seem to be reluctant to understand the labourers and are actually stretching their necks. The members of the Bureau, the strikers, the large-letter workers in their statement highlighted the basic requirements of the workers. They are simple: the establishment of cost-effective freight tariffs, the establishment of loan holidays, the revision of customs charges to the level of 1 January 2008, which will increase freight turnover and ensure that the workers are mainly employed. However, at the invitation of an absolute majority of workers, one should not be fooled by one-off duties. The country is already on the verge of disaster. And it is necessary to defend our legitimate rights strictly and uncompromisingly. That is why, on 2 March, an indefinite strike by carriers began in Ukraine, with the breakdown of two fixed camps in the strategic arteries of Ukraine, the clerical bridge of the Odessa Kiev Route and the roadway in the direction of Nikolayev. The KPU faction supports its fellow troops by 100 per cent, and once again declares to the trainee, or we will be put on the line in the loop, or we will be with you, giving that authority the last chance to meet its constitutional requirements, and we will force the same impression on their fat necks. That is why the Communists supported and led the strike by labour groups that rebelled against the impunity of the masters and the oligarchic authorities. On behalf of the entire working people, the Company of Ukraine also supports the workers of the Chevchenka Sugar Factory in Kiev, the workers of the Dnepropress, the Herson Engineering Plant, the Herson Morport, the Herson Oil Processing Plant, workers and iterians of the Donetskémeta, the Poltava Heat Construction Plant, Lugansktepórzová, the Odessa Presmaša and Krajana, the Harkov power plant. What is required and what is required by the faction of the IPU, as well as its important initiatives to Parliament. First. Credits for those who have lost their jobs or who are on unpaid leave, I mean credit holidays at rates. Returns on foreign exchange loans and interest payments at the time of conclusion of contracts, and the remainder should be compensated by the State and the National Bank for the loans they have taken on our responsibility. Third. Moratorium on rising food prices, medicines and tariffs for JCX. Fourth. Criminal liability to business leaders for non-payment of salaries. Fifth. Abolishment of brainless fines for traffic rules and the adoption of the IHR bill on transport fees imposed by communists Simonenko, Martinyuk as a whole. And the fifth. Review Customs charges up to 1 January 2008. The Cabinet of Ministers, the Customs Service, the National Bank of Ukraine is required by the faction to fulfil all the conditions of workers'strikes. Otherwise, I'm sure the authorities will soon know what a working fist is, a broken fist and a fitting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u13	Mikola Martinenko, "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u14	Honourable Head, honourable colleagues, on February 19, 362 national deputies voted in favour of hearing information from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the decision of the United Nations International Court of Justice concerning the island of Snakes and its respective territories. One can understand the interest in such an important issue as the state borders of Ukraine. For good reason, the people say: “Friends with a neighbor, and a tin of cities.” At the same time, I would like to caution against trying to turn the professional issue into internal political deliberation. So we're not going to be able to provoke people's decisions about the Foreign Ministry right now. This will not change the judgment of the Serpent, but will only lead to another political upheaval and strike by the authority of our State. The year - long dispute over the separation of Ukrainian and Romanian marine space has finally placed a dot. This was done by the International Court of Justice in The Hague. This court, and it has existed since 1946, has been addressed by many of the world’s leading countries: The United States, France, Germany, Britain, and others. So it's more than an authority. And the decision on Snakes was taken unanimously by the International Court of Justice, a rare case. From the perspective of the interests of the future, the decision is fairly balanced and cannot be called a “catastrophic paraca” or a “triumphal victory” and cannot be evaluated in the coordinates of “loss-win”. It is a civilized, universally recognized way of resolving issues. Happily, in the past, there were times when borders existed to be fought for. Now in that area that has gone to Ukraine, we can do full-fledged farming, including exploration and exploitation of natural resources. A line of disengagement had emerged, a limit had disappeared, and a long and bitter dispute had ended. This decision reminded Ukraine that demarcation and delimitation are still relevant not only to our western borders. Yes, there is a chronic problem of contractually forming the delimitation of the State border in the Asia-Kerchen Aquarium and demarcating the border on the ground. Unfortunately, this is prolonged by the Russian side, because behind the paper line from dots three, there are serious interests both political and completely material. In the past year, no movement occurred because of the blockade by the Russian side. The joint commission on the demarcation of the Ukrainian-Russian State Border is not working. Then it becomes more relevant to do one-sided demarcation work, to be more active in protecting our national interests. Let me remind you, the negotiation process for delimitation of the Azo-Kerchen aquarium has been going on since 1996 and is now in actual stagnation. In January of this year, there were 30 rounds of consultations held, but the differences could not be resolved. They listened to the experts and separated. In fact, the negotiation process is blocked. There is no reason to believe that there will be a breakthrough in the next round of negotiations in June. Regrettably, Ukraine’s position is weakened by internal political opposition. In other states, political forces in similar situations are the only front, because the problem of borders is the national security of the country, its sovereignty, its territorial integrity. A common effort is needed by all branches of government, including the Supreme Council, to resolve Russia’s issues with a clear algorithm. I think it's appropriate, first of all, to speed up the negotiation process for delimitation of the Azoo-Kerchen Aquarium; to conclude an agreement on the Ukrainian-Russian state border in the Azov and Black Seas. Secondly, to start a joint commission with the demarcation of the Ukrainian-Russian state border. In the interests of both Ukraine and the Russian Federation, accelerate the preparation of agreements on cooperation in the areas of navigation, fishing, and the protection of the marine environment in the Azov and Black Seas. Obviously, interstate cooperation mechanisms work ineffectively, so it needs to be activated at the level of the interparliamentary dialogue. This month, an inter-Parliamentary Ukrainian-Russian Commission is scheduled to meet. Our representatives can discuss border issues with Russian colleagues. Maybe we should make a joint statement. I call on the parliaments of our countries to show a good example of working with foreign political authorities. I believe that the Supreme Council can and should take an active position here. This will be much more useful to our nation than speculation about the resignation of a minister or the decision of an international court on the Serpent. Let's look at the future together and are consolidated in defending Ukraine's interests without politicization and electoral rhetoric.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u15	Allows you to finish the speech
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u16	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u17	Dear colleagues, the factions are finished. Regarding the suggestions made in our colleagues ’ presentations, I ask the secretariat to prepare appropriate letters, addresses, and assignments. Please, Ivan Grigorovich. Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u18	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I'm very sorry I didn't say in my speech. I would like to draw your attention once again to your proposal, Vladimir Mikhajlovich, who spoke yesterday at the Conciliation Council and who did not find on the Conciliation Council yesterday, to put to the vote as always on Tuesday after a reduced procedure of rulings and bills that do not arouse doubts in the first reading, and to continue working day before the end of the agenda. Colleagues, see how many questions today and how relevant they are in the order of the day. Vladimir Mikhailovich, please. It's traditionally what you're proposing and we're proposing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u19	Thank you. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention, please? There will be a meeting of the Conciliation Council at 12 p.m. during the break. I'd like to ask the faction leaders to meet in the office of the Chief of Staff of the Supreme Council, first of all. And secondly, in line with yesterday's question on the Conciliation Council, I would like to draw attention to the proposal to continue the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine until the completion of the consideration of the issues set out in the schedule for Tuesday, March 3. Please note, I am putting to the vote this proposal to continue the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine until the completion of the consideration of the issues set out in the schedule on March 3. Please vote. Please vote. [[10:32:03]] For 206 The decision is not taken. A second proposal is put to the vote to address the issues set by the timetable for today, except for the information that we will listen to the first foreign minister of Ukraine, as well as the bills relating to the second reading, under a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[10:32:39]] For 207 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, information from the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine on the decision of the United Nations International Court of Justice on the island of Snakes and its respective territories is under review. It is suggested that this rule of procedure be proposed, as required by article 240 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Information from the Foreign Minister - within 20 minutes, the answer to a question - in 20 minutes, a speech by the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Profiles in foreign affairs - in up to 10 minutes and in case we make decisions, honourable colleagues, statements from factions, we need to vote on this issue. So the information is 20 minutes, the answers are 20 minutes, the speech by the committee head is 10 minutes. This is a requirement of article 240. And in order to agree on whether or not to discuss it, we need to vote. That's why I'm putting the vote to the vote: who's to say that the results of hearing information from the Supreme Council of Ukraine discuss this issue in part: statements from factions, up to five minutes. Please vote. [[10:34:21]] For 180. The decision is not taken. Let's move on to the question. The factions? Please. Region Party – 146, “Timoshenko Block” – 1, “Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense” – 5, Communist faction – 27, “Litvina Block” – 1. Let's move on to the question. I invite you to speak with the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, Vladimir Stanislavovich Ogryzka. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u20	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! The Ukrainian side prepared eight volumes of documents in a total of more than 2,000 sheets to deal with the case before the United Nations International Court of Justice. It's about that. Since the beginning of the negotiations, 48 volumes of relevant documentation have been discussed. Obviously, in my time, it is not possible to analyze such an array of information. Let me just point out that this is really a very complicated legal subject. It takes clarity and precision, as far as I'm concerned. In this connection, I would like to draw attention to the formulations that we have defined. In fact, the International Court of Justice did not consider or rule on the island of Snakes and its respective territories. The court considered the case “The Maritime Delimitation in the Black Sea. Romania v. Ukraine” and decided to delimit the continental shelf and exclusive economic zones of Ukraine and Romania in the Black Sea. So if the legal details of the case arise, if necessary, additional information can be provided to you, honourable deputies, by Professor Vladimir Vasilenko, who is present in this Hall, in the matter of delimitation of the continental shelf and exclusion of economic zones in the Black Sea, the extraordinary and authorized Ambassador of Ukraine, Professor Vladimir Vasilenko, and the extraordinary authorised Ambassador of Ukraine, Deputy and Minister of Foreign Affairs, Alexander Kupchisin. By the way, they've already informed two of the Supreme Council's profile committees, namely in foreign affairs and on security and defence issues. My colleagues were directly involved in the final stage of this matter before an international court. And I'm going to allow myself to pause on a few factual points and move on to the political conclusions that I think are appropriate in this regard. So the problem of delimitation of the continental shelf and the exclusion of economic zones in the Black Sea came to Ukraine as an inheritance from the Soviet Union. The corresponding Soviet-Romanian negotiations lasted 20 years from 1967 to 1987, during which ten rounds of negotiations were held, which ended in vain. With the collapse of the Soviet Union and Ukraine’s independence, our nation wanted to solve the problem. These aspirations have already resulted in the Ukrainian-Romanian negotiations on this issue, which began in January 1998 at the initiative of the Ukrainian side. Regrettably, due to differences, the principles of differences in the positions of the parties that concerned the very essence of the issue and the approaches to delimitation from the Romanian side were suspended in September 2004 after the 24 rounds of negotiations. Since the parties failed to reach a bilateral solution to the problem of delimitation, on September 16, 2004, Romania made a formal application to the UN International Court of Justice for a delimitation of the continental shelf and exclusive economic zones of Ukraine and Romania in the Black Sea. In the fall of the same year, the United Nations International Court of Justice, based on the provisions of an article of an additional agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between the ministers of foreign affairs of Ukraine and Romania to the Treaty on the Relationship of Good-neighbourliness and Cooperation between Ukraine and Romania of June 2, 97, acknowledged its jurisdiction in the matter that I have already mentioned -- maritime delimitation in the Black Sea, Romania v. Ukraine. The additional agreement I mentioned in 97 confirmed the principle of consent of both parties to the United Nations International Court of Justice. In accordance with the President's decree of October 2004 on the decision of the PNB of 28 September on the resolution of issues with Romania on the limits of the continental shelf to exclusive economic zones in the Black Sea, an inter-ministerial working group was established, consisting of representatives of the Council of National Security and Defence, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economics, the Ministry of the Environment and the Ukrainian Security Service. Thus, leading experts from various ministries and offices of our state were involved in defending Ukraine’s interests in its dispute with Romania. The legal advisers of the Ukrainian side in the court were representatives of the world - famous legal company Fre. Everscheds.’ With regard to the procedure for dealing with the matter in the International Court of Justice. The first, written stage of the trial lasted almost three years and consisted of two stages. Submission of a memorandum by Romania and Ukraine of a counter-memorial. Giving Romania a replica and Ukraine is the answer to this line. The second stage of the case was the oral hearings held in The Hague from September 2 to 9, 2008. In general, Ukraine stated logically in court a delimitation line that practically coincided with the line that Ukraine took during talks with Romania in 1998 - 2004. Ukraine’s position in court was duly based on international law and relied on a broad evidence base. The Ukrainian delegation did not leave without a reply any argument or accusation from the complainant’s delegation. In particular, I would like to point out that the International Court of Justice of Ukraine has stated requirements for maritime space when it comes to diplomatic language, based on our position of inquiry. What can be done, honourable national deputies, to conclude from the ruling of the International Court of Justice? First. The announcement of the United Nations International Court of Justice’s decision on the line of maritime delimitation did not correspond to the questionable positions of either Ukraine or Romania. In assessing the court’s decision, we need to distinguish between the area of delimitation and the so - called disputed area. The perimeter of the disputed area is created by lines that have been declared by the Ukrainian and Romanian parties in court and which, as I have already pointed out, have been of a questionable nature. The entire area is about 13,000 square miles [13,000 sq km]. So I would like to emphasize this, the delimitation area divided by a total area of over 75,000 square kilometers and distributed in a ratio of 2.1 to 1 in favour of Ukraine. That's a perfectly fair result. In doing so, the court chose the classical principle of a middle line. Equally important in assessing the court’s decision is not only the distribution of the areas of the continental shelf but also the construction of the delimitation line itself. As it is known, Romania’s priority interest in natural resources was in the north-eastern part of the island of Snakes, which, according to a court decision, was known to have left Ukraine. The second conclusion. Ladies and gentlemen, Ukraine has not lost an inch of its national territory. Again, Ukraine has not lost an inch of its national territory. The border between Ukraine and Romania has been established by the Treaty on the State Border since June 2003, ratified by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in May 2004. Paragraph three. As we have already established, the court's case was to conduct a delimitation line outside Ukraine's territorial sea. And that's the line. What is more, the court’s decision to stop discussing the belongings of the island of Snakes once and for all. The Romanian concept of protection in the International Court of Justice is known to have been largely based on attempts to substantiate the so - called historical injustice of the transfer of Snakes to the Soviet Union. Thus, by acknowledging the Dragon Island, the International Court of Justice has completely ignored Romania’s historical claims on Snake Island. It's confirmed, first of all, that this is an island. Second, it is stated that it was handed over to the Soviet Union legally. And Ukraine also legally owns it as one of the successors to the former Soviet Union. The court also confirmed that Snake has a 12-mile zone, a territorial sea on the continental shelf, which is very important to us in terms of economic protection. So there's a dot on the year-long controversy between the two states. In general, it can be noted that we do not have any outstanding issues with our neighbors today on the western border. This is an extremely important result of the work of many generations of Ukrainian statesmen, politicians, and the diplomatic service of Ukraine. Paragraph 4. The possibility of a court dispute, as I mentioned earlier, was fixed as an intergovernmental treaty signed in 1997 between Ukraine and Romania. She became an integral part of that covenant. Therefore, it was only because of the rejection of participation in a treaty with Romania, as some politicians today suggest, with all possible consequences for Ukraine in this regard, that an agreement with Romania could be withdrawn. Thus, the decision to give consent to the matter before the court was not taken by the current president. I repeat, this happened in 1997. As for practical work, I will mention once again the relevant decision of the Security and Defence Council of September 28, 2004, which actually predicted all the steps that have been taken since then. Therefore, the charges against President Yushchenka and the MCC are politically motivated and unfounded. The present executive authority did only what it had inherited from the previous, no more, no less. Paragraph five. After agreeing to a court hearing, the parties also agreed to take the decision. The calls of some of our politicians not to execute a court decision is total legal nihilism. Such an approach is unacceptable and unacceptable. It can only have the effect of applying sanctions against Ukraine by the UN Security Council. So I urge you to treat this with all your responsibility. Six. The court’s decision was taken unanimously. It's a rather rare case. But it is a sign of unanimity and impartiality. As is known, the International Court of Justice has never in its history recognized the questionable line of one side of the conflict. The court always held a compromise line. Interestingly, the line set by the court actually coincided with a line Romania refused in 1987 during talks with the Soviet Union. In the meantime, as we've all heard, it was declared a great victory. We have, distinguished national MPs, another example of how to care for the reputation of our nation. There was a presidential election earlier than we had, but neither the authorities nor the opposition allowed themselves to play a so-called Hague map. Sadly, we are not yet adults. And a few words about the practical side of the matter. Ukrainian experts provide such intelligence and perspectives, I repeat, the exploration and promising reserves of hydrocarbons on the shelf that are distributed today. So on the Ukrainian side: gas -- up to 800 billion cubic meters, oil -- up to 52 million tons. In Romanian, up to 70 billion cubic metres of gas, up to 12 million tons. About the distribution, the so-called dispute zone. Again, according to our Ukrainian specialists, 21 of them were in Ukrainian, 4 were in Romanian. What's in Romanian is 26 billion cubic meters of gas, 128 meters of Ukrainian gas. The question is actually very simple: “When we begin to learn it. What do we owe?” That is the point, not in mythical losses, which are not really there. And the last. Having concluded this dispute, we have removed from bilateral relations a very important and irritating factor. Today, nothing prevents our neighbour countries from deepening their mutual cooperation, including in a joint, if deemed appropriate, use of the natural resources of the continental shelf. This is a civilized world practice. The International Court of Justice has made a number of similar decisions, and in all lands this has been seen as a final and positive decision. The same should be true, honourable national deputies, and in our case. I think it's our common Ukrainian-Romanian victory with which I welcome you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u21	Yes, dear colleagues, the minister has finished his speech. We have 20 minutes to ask a question to the head of foreign policy. Please sign up, your honors. Please show me on the board. National MP Kovalova, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u22	I beg you to pass the word to Inna of the Divine One.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u23	Another Godsister, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u24	Thank you. Mr. Minister, please tell us if there are relations with Romania that are normal for Ukraine in view of the three statements made by the President of this country that Romania does not recognise borders under the Molotov-Ribentrop Pact. This is actually one-fourth of Ukraine’s borders. Then we lose for the first time in the history of Ukraine without war, we lose, we give up territory. After that, he was sent from the country yesterday, in fact, by note, to the military attaché of Ukraine. Do you have such information as a minister? What can you tell us about this? And is it even normal for the island of Snakes to become the next link in Ukraine’s permanent losses in the outer arena? I'd like to ask you, do you feel responsible for these losses? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u25	Dear Lady of the Gods! I'll start with what you said about the Romanian president's statements. Both he and the two foreign ministers, with whom I personally had the right negotiations, refuted the fact that the President of Romania, as it were, had put forward claims of a territorial nature to the Ukrainian State. This was confirmed repeatedly and in writing. Thus, the issue of territorial claims on the Romanian side to Ukraine is a fantasy. As for the assessment by the two presidents of what happened in The Hague, I want to send you to their phone conversation, which took place a few days after this decision was taken, where both presidents approved it and said it really opens up a completely new chapter in the Ukrainian-Romanian relationship that should develop in the east.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u26	Igor Alexeyev, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u27	Please pass the word to your colleague Cibenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u28	Peter Stepanovich Zibenko microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u29	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear Mr. Minister! What happened to Snake Island is real, not a mythical betrayal of Ukraine’s national interests. Please share with us what other areas of Ukraine you are about to give up so that they too can be declared a great victory by Ukraine. That's the first question. And the second question. Do you not expect that very soon the question of your resignation will be asked, not by the Ukrainian opposition, but by the Washington Human Resources Department, because the new US administration is today looking for support in Russia for Iran, for Afghanistan, especially on the backdrop of the liquidation of the base in Manas, and you continue to “be a hoof”. And I'm not saying any more about the fact that it was through the efforts of the Company of Ukraine that the island of Snakes of its time was returned to Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u30	Thank you very much, Sir Cibenko. Well, it's not about betraying national interests. I'm leaving you, as it were, on your grades, the compromise decision of an international court. There have been few such cases in the history of the international court and the relationship between countries. And, of course, neither side has ever received what it demanded, as its questionable position, as I have already mentioned. The line is always compromised. And if you, Your Honor, look at the map, I think. That you were looking at her, I just wanted to show you, maybe you didn't see her. So if you see, the line that the court conducted is really compromised because it's going through the middle line. And this is a formula used by an international court, practically in all its decisions. Of course, the line taken by the Ukrainian delegation at those other talks was of a questionable nature, and it demanded more than we might have wanted. But the decision is objective and we need to understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u31	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u32	It should be accepted. Regarding the Washington community, I would like to inform you that I intend to negotiate with the new head of U.S. foreign policy in the near future and discuss this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u33	Alexander Efraemov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u34	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Mr. Minister, a few weeks ago, you sent an appropriate dispatch of our State's diplomatic mission abroad, in which they provided the team with the following materials, to report negatively to the Cabinet of Ministers of our State abroad and to the leaders of other countries. How much do you think these actions are moral, as a minister, to give such dispatches abroad, and does that not conflict with what you said, that we should not embarrass our State abroad? And the second question is, a few days ago, you were ordered or presented to the Order by President Saakashvili. Do you feel that it is moral for the Minister for Foreign Affairs of another State to earn an order for the lives and blood of people? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u35	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I don't know if this belongs to the subject of today's conversation, because Mr. Ephraim is asking questions that are not put into the agenda. So it's up to you whether to give me an answer or not.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u36	Vladimir Stanislavovich, I think you can state your position. The MP has the right to ask any question, especially the national one.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u37	Please, but it is just not part of the current discussion. Dear Mr. Ephraim, you know that under the Law on the Diplomatic Service, foreign political authorities should inform foreign countries about the situation in Ukraine. So there was no violation of the Law on the Diplomatic Service in my actions. By the way, to your knowledge, I don’t know if you’ve read, although this information has already been distributed, I want to read: “We’re sending the briefing material of the first deputy secretary of the PNDP, Gavrish. I am tasked with organizing, personally, the introduction of the basic positions of the briefing to the official factors and media.” It is an obligation to inform foreign nations of what is happening, including in such key cases. And the main situation was that we didn't give up contracts with the Russian Gas Federation and that gas supplies would be extended to European countries -- two points where we focused on all the information that we had brought to foreign countries. If you think it's immoral, well, then we have different ideas about morality. And about the order. I have many orders from foreign nations, but this order I will wear with great moral satisfaction because we have demonstrated Georgia.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u38	Viacheslav Koval, faction of "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u39	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, please give the floor to Boris Tarasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u40	Boris Tarasyuk, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u41	Thank you. As a professional and diplomat with more than thirty years of experience, I welcome the negotiating team that represented Ukraine at the UN International Court of Justice in The Hague with professional work. The work of the Ukrainian negotiating team can only be called highly professional, as does the team headed by the foreign minister Vladimir Ogryzko. Volodymyr Stanislavovich, I have a question for you next time. Have the ministries and offices listed by you participated in handling the position of the negotiating team at the meetings of the United Nations International Court of Justice? And the second question. Who led the negotiating team, and what requirements would be met by the leader of this negotiating team? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u42	Thank you very much, Your Honor Boris Ivanovich, and your words as a professional are extremely valuable to me, I really appreciate your professionalism as a minister, as a diplomat, as a Ukrainian patriot. So thank you very much for your high appreciation for our work. As to the question that you asked, I've already informed you that an interagency working group has been set up, which I've listed as ministries and offices. The group met periodically to discuss the current state of affairs after Romania filed a complaint with the UN International Court of Justice and only through coordination of the efforts of all the members of the group did a practical line of conduct in court. And led by this team, Vladimir Andrievich Vasilenko, one of the few deep experts in international law in Ukraine, including international law of the sea, who has great experience.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u43	Give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u44	International organizations, I want to express my gratitude once again for the high professionalism you have demonstrated during your work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u45	Olga Gerasimjuk faction "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u46	I give the word "Knyazevich" to Ruslan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u47	Ruslan Knyazevich microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u48	Dear Volodymira Stanislavovich, you don't have to pay attention because we already have a tradition of good in Parliament as soon as the Communist environment and the Party of Regions have some internal contradictions and disagreements with a view to diverting attention, you are currently looking for an external enemy, and somehow you are the most successful target. You were once told that you allowed yourself to communicate in the national language, remember? And there's another set of questions. It's just that your government's consistent position is very distasteful. Because if you're being reproached, it's just that, let's say, you supported the proposals of another Soviet state on the island of Snakes, and that's why the Communists should ask you to join their party, not get you out of office. And the Party of Regions complains that as if you started this trial on behalf of Ukraine, you entered it, more precisely, although your predecessor did so on September 16, 2004, under the government of Yanukovic. But I have a very different question. In a few words, could you say that we gave up a neutral territory rather than a Ukrainian territory? And at least that's the whole point.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u49	Let me ask you a question before you write it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u50	That we didn't give anything away, we just shared a neutral territory that for years became, unfortunately, undistributed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u51	Thank you very much, my dear colleague, for your offer and for your offer. It's actually about lynnep, but in many cases it's about ordering things that are being circulated for the purpose of discrediting Ukraine's foreign policy, the President of Ukraine, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry as a whole. The last example of yesterday, in particular, a publication in “Ukrainian Truth” on this subject, which is completely unprofessional, and let me say, ridiculous. There were many such publications. But as professionals, we know the value of these publications and understand what they are written for and what their purpose is. So once again, honourable national MPs, I want to show you a map that you've probably seen. It has a very clear and clear line of compromise on both sides. And that's an absolute legal fact. We cannot assume that we are somehow influencing the court. The UN International Court of Justice is an independent institution.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u52	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u53	which implements its decision based on science, international legal science and the formulas and concepts that exist in this science. So once again, this is a compromise decision that has in no way affected our nation's national interests.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u54	Leonid Kojara, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u55	Thank you, Mr. Head. Mr. Secretary, I have the information that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has officially sent to the Supreme Council in response to the ruling of the Hague Court. And it says here that about the disputed area, about 25 percent went to Ukraine and 75 percent to Romania. That's my question. Are the three quarters of Romania’s disputed area and one quarter of Ukraine alone meeting, in principle, the principle of justice to be applied in international law or not? And the second question I have is this. While appreciating your personal contribution to the state of the Ukrainian-Russian relationship, the President created a virtually foreign ministry on relations with Russia. This is a strategic group where your subordinate Ambassador Grishenko is your boss at the same time. How you fulfill your commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u56	Dear Mr. Kojara, I also appreciate your diplomatic skill and experience. I remember you working as my deputy at the President's Administration, well, you've gone far and I want you to go even further in these particulars, as they say, in your grades. But in fact, as I think you should know, the questionable position and that position, which is realistic, are two different positions. And every buyer always wants to buy cheaper, and the seller wants to sell cheaper. So this is the normal technology of diplomatic, including negotiation. There's a questionable position that's maximistic, and there's a questionable position that eventually comes out of the delegation. There are different negotiating technologies. This one was chosen. And it's not completely negative. This is one of the technologies that's being applied. In terms of Ukrainian-Russian relations, I fully support the President's decision to create one.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u57	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u58	Because it really wants to define strategic direction. This group included representatives of many of our various ministries and departments. This will only help to ensure that Ukrainian-Russian relations, to which Ukraine has always respected and sought to develop them on an equal, good-neighbourly basis, have a perspective. The other thing is, unfortunately, so far we don't have an answer to our proposals on the Russian side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u59	Hanna Herman, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u60	Minister, we all know that the diplomatic authority of the state is designed to improve Ukraine's relations with its neighbours. At times, our diplomatic service is designed to aggravate Ukraine’s relationship with Russia. We're talking about my question about the statements made by Chernomyrdin. We know Czernomyrdin, we know that he's made some pretty harsh statements. But the reaction to his statements on your part was exactly when the prime minister of Ukraine tried to take credit for Ukraine in Russia. Perhaps she would have taken this credit on better terms than the one we asked the IMF on such unfavourable terms and a letter written by the President and Prime Minister to the IMF. But your statement to meet, met, in the hands of the Prime Minister, has harmed the matter with which the Prime Minister was involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u61	Thank you, Mrs. Herman. As we continue with the topic of Ukrainian-Russian relations and Ambassador Blackomirdin's statements, I would like to inform you that we have repeatedly called the Russian side's attention through our diplomatic channels not publicly that such statements cannot take place in the civilized communication of our two friendly states. I did it myself, I was addressing my colleague, Mr. Lavrov. I've been paying attention to such things. Unfortunately, it went on for months, if not years. There is no connection between what was made and what was negotiated. But it is not the right of a normal state not to react to such things. I'll just give you an interesting example, maybe you don't know it. But a few years ago, there was to be an appointed ambassador from Russia to the Republic.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u62	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u63	Governor of one district. The day before, when the decree of appointment had already been signed, he allowed the address to Belarus of a very tactless nature. So the reaction of the Belarusian side was hard and instantaneous. The ambassador was still an ambassador in his governorate, and he did not make it to Minsk. This is an example of how to protect one’s national interests. We're going to do the same thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u64	Alla Alexandrovska, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u65	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Vladimir Stanislavovich, I have a question that comes out of the questions that have already been asked. And you yourself talked about justice, about technology in diplomacy, and also said that reality doesn't always match what we're doing and so on. But you know why this court's decision of 99 per cent, according to press experts, coincided with the expectations of the Romanian side. And only one percent of how we try to show that we are satisfied with that decision. However, statistics show that in the area of the island of Zmejinay, the area that has left Romania, there are known reserves of 10 million tons of oil and 100 billion cubic metres of gas, that is, we have lost the energy resources that Ukraine needs. Please tell me, have you deliberately betrayed the interests of the State or have you done so?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u66	Dear Mrs. Alexandrovska, once again, I would like to point out that there is a questionable position, and there is a position that is decided by the court. If the two parties refer to the court, they objectively give the court the right to a final decision. If we go to the Constitutional Court, which makes the decision, we take it because it's the final decision of the court that's being taken. Do you understand? It's about the supplies we talked about. I want to do the same number again, we got a lot more there, and this disputed area is distributed, although in the same proportion as you rightly called it, 25 to 75. But there are 21 areas in our territory that have been explored, only four areas in Romania, with much smaller stocks than there are in our territory. So the court has made a decision that we are not discussing today, which we should simply and simply accept, as we agreed to when we started the process of actually these negotiations in 1997. And to influence the court, Mrs. Alexandrovska, we have no right.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u67	Thank you, Volodymyr Stanislavovich. Time's up. The chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Oleg Grigorovich Belarus, is invited to speak with the committee, please. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u68	Dear Head, honourable national deputies, the decision of the United Nations International Court for Delimitation of the Continental Shelf and the exclusive economic zones of Ukraine and Romania in the area of Snakes, adopted on February 3, this year, sparked heated discussions in Ukrainian politics and in society as a whole. There are completely opposite estimates of this event, ranging from full support to a categorical rejection and of the MCC's accusations of inadequate protection of Ukraine's national interests and even of state betrayal. As representatives of the Ukrainian people, national deputies are obliged to study deeply and fully and to give an impartial assessment of the court’s decision in order to ensure that the implementation of this decision serves the country’s national, economic, international authority and the consolidation of Ukrainian society. The Committee on Foreign Affairs immediately, on February 4, this year, heard a report by one of the heads of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and experts from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, directly involved in the negotiations on the decision of the United Nations International Court of Justice concerning the distribution of shelves in the Black Sea and exclusive economic zones between Ukraine and Romania. In an open debate, the committee noted that the decision that had been taken for Ukraine had both positive and negative aspects that needed to be addressed further to all branches of government. First of all, it is important to note that the decision came to an end in a peaceful way in a territorial dispute with Romania, which has been going on since 1967 since the Soviet Union. In fact, the line of determination of the court's decision coincides with the slight differences with the line advocated by the USSR delegation in negotiations with Romania until 87. Another positive point is that the final delimitation of the shelf and exclusive economic zones between the two neighbouring states will allow the exploration and development of useful fossils on the continental shelf that has left Ukraine. The settlement of the dispute with Romania will also contribute to the investment attractiveness of future international projects in the north-western region of the Black Sea. The decision of the UN International Court of Justice, which is recognised by both sides, will have a positive impact on the entire relationship between Ukraine and Romania, Ukraine and the EU, will contribute to restoring the climate of trust and good-neighbourliness and will serve to deepen Ukraine's European integration processes. At the same time, there is no possibility of talking about an epochal victory in Ukraine. It is not possible to share the total optimism of some MPS workers on Ukraine's full and undeniable success in the trial and Ukraine's use of every opportunity to protect national interests. First of all, despite the fact that Snake de jure was recognized by the court of the island, the Ukrainian side failed to obtain recognition for Ukraine of the exclusive economic zone, which under international law should be defined as an island, for the islands. In fact, Snake Island actually got rock status as required by the Romanian side. Thus, Ukraine lost a significant size of its exclusive economic zone. Secondly, the very fact that Ukraine was involved in an international trial on the distribution of shelves and exclusive economic zones has created a very negative precedent that other states can use to resolve disputes with Ukraine, and this has been particularly emphasized at the committee meeting. The fact that the International Court of Justice refers to the fact that not only this but also all previous stocks, unfortunately, in all the years of existence of Ukraine as a State, have failed to reconcile the use of exclusive economic zones on a bilateral basis, under conditions of mutually beneficial and interested cooperation. As a result of hearings, on the decision of the United Nations International Court of Justice on the distribution of shelves in the Black Sea and economic zones between Ukraine and Romania, the Committee made the following recommendations. First, take note of the information provided by the International Court of Justice regarding the distribution of the shelf in the Black Sea and the economic zone. Second, recommend that the International Court of Justice organize an in-depth study and evaluation of the consequences. Recommend that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs consider this issue at a special meeting of the College with the participation of all interested Ukrainian authorities and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Supreme Council. In doing so, special attention should be paid to assessing court decisions that are legally binding. As reported by the foreign minister, March 4 is scheduled to be held by the extended College of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It would be desirable for a broad interdisciplinary discussion to produce political, strategic and organisational measures to effectively protect Ukraine's national interests in a situation that arose after the rulings of the International Court of Justice. It would also be desirable to use these decisions to ensure effective international cooperation in the development and use of oil and gas reserves, both in the Ukrainian shelf and in the two-hundred - hour exclusive zone. The MIP and other authorities need to maintain continuous monitoring and control of the mode of operation of Ukraine's exclusive economic zone in the Black Sea area. Dear National Deputies! Ukraine, as a member and founder of the United Nations, is forced to recognize the decision of the UN International Court of Justice, but it must be implemented in the interests of our state. The need to do so cannot call into question. Therefore, the Committee on Foreign Affairs suggests that the information presented by the Minister of Foreign Affairs be made known and that the Government, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and other authorities should continue to work to ensure that decisions taken by the Minister of Foreign Affairs are of the national interest of Ukraine. It requires the immediate adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Principles of National Interest and the Law on Principles of Internal and External Policy, so that our diplomats have an imperative normative basis for negotiations. These laws may be the foundation of a global national development strategy for Ukraine in the first half of the 21st century. We have to give up the inferiority complex. Our diplomacy should eventually become active, strong and aggressive in defending Ukraine's fundamental interests. This is what the Ukrainian people require of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u69	Dear colleagues, we have completed our consideration of the matter. Before making decisions. I'll tell you about the proposals that are being made. Excuse me. Allow me, Your Honor, a brief summary: The response to an international court's decision was expected, it's understandable, because no one wants to give up their territories. I would like to point out, dear colleagues, that nothing has fallen and we should probably stick to that position. Whether the Supreme Council of Ukraine had the right to consider the matter. It is obvious that she had the right to consider and be obliged to consider the matter, but unfortunately, as in many other matters that we have considered, we have not had a public conversation. I want to emphasize, there's not been a public conversation, we're working on the opposites, if one of us has done it -- others have to be critical. We need to take the decision of an international court as a given and perhaps say that this honest and impartial decision, I mean, the decision, it can't be others, and we have to talk about it, it's in Romania's favor. That's the first one. And the second. But the decision of the court is binding. And the third. We should have said that if we were formulating our position and the Romanian side was formulating its position, then why was the decision taken with one side taken, or we were misphrasing, or we overstated political, social and other expectations, and we were not having serious conversations, and now we're trying to convince someone of something. This is wrong, I want to say this to the Ministry of Foreign Policy, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. For how can it be recognized that the Ukrainian coastline is three times longer than the Romanian, but this important fact is not taken into account when making the final decision. The Court did not consider Snake Island as a factor affecting delimitation of the continental shelf and exclusive economic zones in the Black Sea. The island of Snakes was granted full status, yet its coastline is not included in the territory of Ukraine. Well that's a fact, so obviously we have to talk about it and think about how to work on the perspective that we're going to make further decisions, given the sensitivity of this problem, especially for Ukraine. So we can conclude one thing: The decision of the court must be carried out, it must not be reviewed, but the conclusions must be made, and obviously, we must also understand that on a global scale this case has become an example of a peaceful settlement of territorial disputes. Fact? Fact. And so obviously we should encourage both the Cabinet of Ministers and our Ministry and the Supreme Council to discuss these issues more objectively, at least for us, so that we can know how to proceed. Dear colleagues, I want to move on to the orders. There are two draft regulations, but I'd like to go to the MPs and tell them that we're going to be responsible, not emotional. Pursuant to the Rules, personnel issues do not need prior consideration. So there are two draft regulations. I understand that if there is insistence, the decision makers will have the opportunity to speak. But then I would ask that we exchange thoughts from factions and not make decisions that are unfounded. No objections? So long as it takes. We have two draft decrees. As long as it takes. Let's calm down. I'd like to ask, let's agree to that. Three minutes to go. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, I'm going to make an offer now, and you're going to support another proposal. In three minutes, the authors of these draft regulations were offered, and then they came out of factions for three minutes. No objections? Dear colleagues, we have considered the matter in accordance with the Rules. If you insist, then I'll put the vote to the full motion and re-examine. The decision will not be taken. By the rules. I want to tell you. According to the Rules, 240 articles are clearly fixed there: 20 minutes for the report, 20 minutes for the answer to the questions, 10 minutes for the report. If the Supreme Council makes a decision, it will be discussed. The Supreme Council did not make a decision on the matter. Dear colleagues, that's the offer. In three minutes, the authors of the draft decrees will reason for their position. Please sign up, five minutes. Well, in order to discuss how we will continue to address this issue. Please, the People's Deputy of Paris, the faction “Our Ukraine-People's Self-Defense”. And put your name on the board.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u70	Volodymyr Mihajlovich, Parubi Andry, MP “For Ukraine! ” So in this consideration, we completed and listened to information, both from the foreign minister and from the head of the Committee in the foreign affairs of Belarus, Oleg Grigorovich. We were indeed given two decrees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the beginning of the session. But these decisions were not made in the order of the day, and so after we have completed our consideration of the issues, it seems illogical and that simply denies common sense. We believe that these decisions are intended to address, not a professional solution to the issue that was the basis of our consideration, but to the sole political aspect of discrediting not only the minister of foreign affairs, but to discredit the whole of Ukraine on a manifest external order. So we think that the consideration of these issues should not stand, they are not in order of day and we should not consider them, we have completed the consideration of the issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u71	People's deputy Chechetov instead of Supper. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u72	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! The issue was very serious and correct. Vladimir Mihajlovich said that Ukraine had completely lost sight of the MIDA and had given up national interests. I think we need to take this seriously. Let us model the situation that Russia would be there instead of Romania. Any kind of piggy look would be in the room, in the media. That's no way, gentlemen, to live by double standards! Someone has to be responsible. In this situation, it is not necessary to lubricate, on the basis of a full programme, whether draft regulations should be issued, to assess in principle those who have given national interests. And we're even. We sit in silence, we're afraid to say a word. What a country! It's understandable because we don't have a public voice. The Prime Minister says one thing, the President says another, and Ukraine does not speak in a public voice. We will always give up our national interests. The full programme should be considered and evaluated in principle by those who have led to this disgrace.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u73	Oleg Belarus, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u74	Please pass the word to John Kirilenko, the leader of the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u75	Ivan Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u76	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! For further consideration of this matter, the faction has a clear position. Despite the great claims that are now before the minister of foreign affairs, including factional ones, not only in his service activities. In particular, he allowed himself to insult the Prime Minister, his direct leader, by directing circulars to embassies, where it is clearly stated how to comment on the government's decision, on any or all of the Prime Minister's statements, which was a significant insult to the government's leadership and a significant insult to Ukraine. But we are said to have a patient attitude. This is the authority of our nation. So we've made decisions by an absolute majority of the faction -- we're not going to support any of the draft regulations. And we ask you to complete the consideration of this question. And please, Vladimir Mikhailovich, the tradition that we have is the first to be considered. Please ask the following question about Ternopol. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u77	Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u78	Dear colleagues! Simonenko, the Communist faction. I think we have good reason today for this betrayal of national interests to look more closely at the problems associated with the activity of the outside of our office and to make the appropriate decision to remove the removal from the management of this outside oglezka. And I think we need to look very carefully at all the problems that accompany our foreign policy today, because cave nationalists today are in charge of this message, which should show peaceful politics to the outside of Ukraine, not the aggressive one that took place in the days when both Tarasuk and Ogrezko ruled by this ministry. She's become aggressive, she's not seen in the world. It is a policy that betrays national interests. That's why I think we need an urgent lookout.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u79	The People's Deputy of Argevite, the faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u80	Keykovsky's word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u81	Yuri Klukkowski, “Our Ukraine”. I would like to pay attention to both the Head of the Supreme Council and all the national deputies to the formulation of the issues that are now included in the agenda. It's about the Foreign Minister's information. I would like to remind you that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no decisions are taken. Therefore, no decision can be taken on the basis of the information. Which is especially true of the ruling that was made, sorry for the deadline, but it's here with the cave Communists, about the resignation of the minister. The Rules provide for a special procedure for the consideration of resignations. This should be a report, not an information, not a single question, but an activity. And so the illiterate, from a legal point of view, I asked the Chief of the Supreme Council not to put the vote today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u82	Thank you. I just want to ask you to convince me not to. I need to convince the MPs. Dear colleagues, I want to tell you about the Rules, let us not speak to those who have not revealed or read the Rules at all, nor teach the Rules. Please, everything. Please, Lavrinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u83	Dear colleagues, I would like to take away the matter of procedure, the rules of procedure. I think we still have in mind a review of the National Bank’s information and the approval of the relevant decision. And I want to say that 240 articles of the Supreme Council Rules provide for the consideration of reports and information. And part six of this article provides that after the discussion is concluded, a vote is taken on the adoption of the relevant decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the basis of a review of a report or information. So that we should be careful about our procedural document and not try to blame the Head for violations that he does not allow.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u84	Dear colleagues, let's do it this way. In accordance with article 240 of the Supreme Council’s Rules of Procedure, appropriate decisions are taken as a result of consideration, and we will today appeal first to the realism of whether or not to make a decision. Once again, I want to say that we should not set precedents for political opposition. That's the first one. The other one. Honorable colleagues, those who object to such regulations, are prevented from making an offer about the inadmissibility of such regulations. One moment, dear fellows. It will be put to the vote first. And I had the right discussions on that. And I've been shown that personnel issues, if they're being considered, don't need committee training. But I want to tell you that I've stood there and I'm standing there, and we don't have to look for problems to confront where there's already quite a lot of them. So let us now calmly, considerately appeal to reason, to the responsibility of our fellow national MPs. We can't have this discussion right now, because we've discussed it. All we can do now is make the right decisions. What? Authors, please. Vasil Kiselov. Three minutes, please. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I would like to say that as a result of the consideration of any matter, a decision is taken that will be made. Now, given the situation, another decision, I'm going to put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u85	Thank you. Dear fellow countrymen, first of all, I would like to say that the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ogryzko is marked by unpredictability, because when Vice President Joseph Biden of the United States stated: “The time has come by rephrasing President Obama, to push the reload button and to review many areas where we can and should work together with Russia” – the end of the quote. And our M.O.S. at the head of the Ogrezko is doing everything we can to strengthen our relationship with the Russian Federation. And this is an appeal to the parliaments of the world to acknowledge the tragedy of the 32-33 years of genocide by the Holocaust of the Ukrainian people, and this is the question of the Black Sea fleet being held nine years before the end of the deal, and that Ukraine, from the President's and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, took the side of Georgia in the Georgian-Ossetinian conflict, for which Minister Ogrizko was given the Order of Georgia, to which you have heard him say from this rostrum, he is proud. Instead, Ukraine lost millions of revenue, orders from the military-industrial complex due to a reduction in cooperation with Russia after the release of military weapons. The exchange rate for VAT on NATO has led to a gas war with the Russian Federation, resulting in gas for our 360-dollar enterprises per thousand meters cubic. And by creating an international strategic group of Ukrainian-Russian relations, where the minister is a regular member of the commission, the President of Ukraine in the same way stressed that this is a failure of the minister towards Ukrainian-Russian relations. I would like to draw particular attention to what my colleagues have already been paying attention to, the sad incident that was taking place at the RNA meeting, where the frank images of the main actors were at each other's addresses. It was Mr. Ogrizko who sent a letter to the ambassadors of Ukraine in the countries of the European Union, in which they were to disgrace the Cabinet of Ministers, in which, by the way, this minister works, which means to disgrace Ukraine. Because one thing we say to each other at home is quite another when it's an official point of view that's spread in foreign countries through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. This is unacceptable! The visa-free regime of the EU is the dream of many Ukrainians, while in the unilateral order Ukraine has established a visa-free regime for citizens of the European Union. And to the end. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask you, what other evidence is there to say that the minister is not in town? The main evidence is that it's going to be a loss in court on Snake Island. And when the cynical minister said from this rostrum that we didn't lose a metre of territory, he forgot to say that we'd lost billions of cubic metres of gas and millions of tons of oil, our generations in the future, and he could talk about that we didn't lose anything. I propose to vote that he be removed from office. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u86	Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u87	Respectable colleagues and respectable voters! The Communist faction and proposed a draft order that suggested that the information and report of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs be reviewed on the issue of treason and the decision of the court that we are discussing today be confirmed. But I would like to draw the attention of my distinguished colleagues before the vote to support the Company's faction that today's decision is to be taken and that Ogrezka's position as Foreign Minister should be taken into account. The report of the Minister for Foreign Affairs made it clear that not only did the Ministry not organize the work properly to defend our interests in court but it also showed a complete professional disadvantage in defending the interests of the State. And in fact, this showed that it was in fact an act of national treason. I also have no doubt that the court's decision only legitimized the agreement of the President of Ukraine and Romania to surrender Ukraine's national interests to Romania. Ogrezko's resignation is a necessary act today in order for us, the Supreme Council, today, to express our disagreement with the foreign policy pursued by Ukraine. We must also understand today that this decision must be made in view of the fact that it in fact completes the destruction of the Helsinki Treaty and thus creates very dangerous precedents, including for Ukraine. It is today that we can become hostages through this dangerous precedent in connection with the emergence of territorial claims in the Chernović region, under Zakarpaty, that there will be some problems on Crimea and other issues tomorrow. I represent our position and the draft Decree on the withdrawal of Ogrezka, and I want the people's deputies to take the following into account. While the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for the years of independence has led bright nationalists with cave nationalism according to their ideology, it is this foreign policy that has become aggressive. We see with you the consequences of this aggressive policy in relations with Russia. I will not continue to build on my colleagues, who have already spoken these words. We witness with you that foreign policy has become plebean. It is in fact a continuation of the interests of the United States of America. We are with you as witnesses that Ukraine has been dragged into the Black Sea arc of opposition, which is a very dangerous thing, not only NATO, WTO, but also the war in Georgia, which is the brightest confirmation. We are witnessing that there is no staff policy in the selection and placement of diplomats. All of this gives us reason - the Communist factions ask the question in principle and harshly, and today we must resign Minister Ogrisco as a person of anti-national origin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u88	Yes, Your Honor, the draft decrees are presented. It's, in fact, the same thing, let's do the factions. But the question is very important, and I would ask them to support the faction's position. Is there any objection? Don't you have to put it to a vote? One minute, one minute, please, one minute from the factions. You don't want to – just give it a minute or so, so people can say their position. Well, you can't rush it like that. Please. Please, Boris Tarasyuk, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense."
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u89	I would also like to speak on behalf of both the faction and the order of the lines, since my name has been called here. I'd like to say that those caverns, anti-democracy forces that are in the walls of the Supreme Council, they're actually disrupting the situation in Ukraine. They're not acting in the interests of the Ukrainian state, they're acting in the interests of the neighbouring state, I can call it: Russia. [[B in m in s a l in]] It's these anti-government forces that think not about national interest, not about Ukraine, but they think about their masters because they're hoodlums. I want to say that two bills have been tabled by representatives of these anti-democratic forces. In our Supreme Council, they are full of non-professionalism, a superficial dilettarian approach. As a professional, I can put on my faces all these savage expressions that are contained in the draft decrees, for example, Communist Simone. Unprofessional activities of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Minister himself. And it's already been proven that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is a private minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u90	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u91	Worked professionally. I want to say that no distribution of the oil and gas shelf, as recorded in the draft Communist decrees, has been decided by the International Court of Justice. The decision of the International Court of Justice confirmed the status of the island of Snakes, which is the territory of Ukraine. Next. In the ruling of the International Court of Justice for Ukraine, there were 10 times the amount of gas that was investigated, 11 times the amount of gas that Romania had. No professional activity.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u92	Yes, Boris Ivanovich, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u93	We can't talk about these draft decisions. So I urge the Supreme Council not to support anti-Ukrainian, anti-government draft regulations, to refuse to support them.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u94	Thank you. Yes, please, from Nestor Shufrich. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, there's gonna be a show. Two minutes. Your last name.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u95	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Of course, the Party of the Regions has been asking many questions about the Ministry of Foreign Affairs’ management over the course of the year. But the latest events that have taken place in Ukraine certainly cannot help but worry not only about opposition but also about the whole Ukrainian society. First of all, our participation in the court in protecting our territories has been quite unsuccessful. Of course, what we lost during the trial of the island of Snakes and our shelf is unquestionable today. We had to do it more carefully, more on the ground. And if they weren't ready, you didn't have to go into this trial. Another question. You know, our position on government and power is generally tough, but today we all realize that we represent Ukrainian society and have to defend national interests, a more shameful circular than.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u96	Give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u97	More disgraceful circular than defiling the actions of your own orange power by your own orange minister has not yet been dealt with by our Ukraine for demeaning Ukraine, demeaning Ukraine's power outside, you have to take responsibility today. For now, Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u98	Yes. Thank you. Please, who else is reporting? Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, please. Dear colleagues, from the faction, don't call your last name, just a last name called Simone. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, I would like once again to draw your attention to the depth of this problem that we are considering first: no one is giving up the national interests of Ukraine, as nationalists say today. [[Applause]] And note if giving up the political interests of Ukraine, i.e. paralyzing power, subjugating the interests of other States and much more today affects our people and the paralysis of the organization of power. Economics, the transfer of economic interests is murder, in fact, is currently being undermined by nationalists and they are still trying to say that they are nationalists today. But the most dangerous thing is that foreign policy can lead to bloodshed and let's not forget that such foreign policy is really a territorial claim, and this is the inclusion, when foreign policy, of military units being sent to hot spots in Afghanistan, Iraq, where exactly what the United States of America requires is being ordered to do, yes, in Afghanistan, you are now sending, you are right to say, Klukovsky, for Afghanistan, you are correctly acknowledging the sins of nationalists today. Therefore, comrades, I believe that a decision must be taken to resign Ogrezka and to review Ukraine's foreign policy immediately. The Communists also suggest that the question of the Basics of Internal and Foreign Policy be immediately considered and that the President and his orange environment are being abused today simply by the people of Ukraine, which, according to Ukraine, is not far from foreign policy. It causes us to lose our external markets, we lose our domestic producers, we lose our friends in external relations today. I believe that in this situation we must make a decision and resign, resign, in this case.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u100	Thank you. Yes, dear colleagues, one minute, now. Klukkowski will have a replica. No one insists on the faction anymore? Please, Klukkowski's replica was called. Please, no last names, just because now we're going to continue the lines again.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u101	I went out to this rostrum not to answer my last name, because when the Communists mention my last name, it only works for my reputation. And I would like to draw the attention of the distinguished higher authority of the state, the representative body of Ukraine, to the fact that we are now being threatened with blood not only from the north, but not only in Russian art literature, which is now being advertised everywhere, but also by a representative of one of the Ukrainian parties, which is only in the name of Ukraine, and is in fact the KPRS branch. So what I'm saying is, to the venerable communists, or to the venerable communists, is that the blood of the 15 million killed in Afghanistan is on your hands. And don't show the nationalists with your finger. Get rid of it first, and then you will again threaten us with blood.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, we are. Dear colleagues, please calm down. Exchanged thoughts. Maybe, Vladimir Stanislavovich, here you've been called a lot of times by your last name, maybe you. What's to say? No, it's not. Dear colleagues, please be calm. That's right. No, it's not. The minister refuses. Once again, I would like to say, dear colleagues, calmly and responsibly, let us take matters into consideration. I'll put the vote in order of arrival and registration. The first is the draft Resolution on the Liberation of Ogryzk Vladimir Stanislavovich from the post of Minister for Foreign Affairs of Ukraine. The author is Vasil Kiselov. Yes, there's a vote coming. [[11:56:13]] For the 250. Please calm down. For 250. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, please calm down! [[B in m in s a l in]] A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 30 minutes. Faction leaders, please meet in the office of the Chief of Staff of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u103	We'll keep working. And now we have to make responsible decisions. Please invite the national deputies to the session room. I'm asking the faction leaders to inform a colleague of the people's deputies about the issues that we've discussed and the decisions that we've reached agreement on. Dear faction leaders! Are we ready to act now in accordance with the decisions we have made? Now, while you're agreeing on positions, are we going to consider a bill? So let's do it this way. We will now consider a bill while you hold consultations with fellow MPs. A draft Law on Amendments and Recognition is being published in a way that has become invalid, some Ukrainian legislation on the collective agricultural enterprise. Registration number 2534, reporter – Minister of Agriculture Policy Yuri Fedorovich Melnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u104	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Ukraine's draft Law on Change and Recognition in such a way that some Ukrainian legislation on collective agriculture has been lost in order to comply with the Ukrainian Law on Collective Agriculture, the Constitution of Ukraine, the Civil Code of Ukraine, the Land Code of Ukraine and other legislative acts in the area of the creation of collective agricultural enterprises, the regulation of property relations on property and land. Yes, the Ukrainian Law on Collective Agriculture establishes that the object of collective property rights of an enterprise is land, other basic and negotiable means of production, money and property of its members, produced by them, income received, property acquired on legal grounds. The Ukrainian Code of Masters, Ukrainian laws on the privatization of state property, on the characteristics of the privatisation of property in an agribusiness complex, also contain a position on collective ownership. However, the Constitution of Ukraine, the Civil Code of Ukraine, determines the law of state, municipal and private property. According to the Ukrainian Code of Land, land in Ukraine may be in private, municipal, and state property. Therefore, the draft Ukrainian law, which is being reviewed, proposes to amend the Ukrainian Economic Code, Ukraine's laws on privatization of state property, the specificities of privatization of property in an agro-industrial complex to stop the creation of collective agricultural enterprises in the future, including during their privatisation. The bill also provides for recognition of the loss of validity of the Ukrainian Law on Collective Agriculture. From our point of view, the adoption of this law will improve the efficiency of land and property management in the agribusiness complex. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u105	Thank you. Please sit down, Yuri Fedorovich. Deputy Head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, Sergei Mikolaiovich Ribuk, will be the focal point. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u106	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The Agrarian Policy Committee, land relations, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Change and Recognition of Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine on Collective Agricultural Entrepreneurship. Of course, in short, there is, indeed, a law that is now under consideration, which is in conflict, first and foremost, with the Constitution of Ukraine, with the unconformity of the provisions of the Ukrainian Master Code, particularly on collective agriculture, with the provisions of the Code of Land, the Civil Code, which I emphasize is an unforeseeable collective form of property. That is to say, we are now left to confirm and agree with the Constitution, first of all, the legislation in force and, in fact, to terminate this law. The Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council a draft Act on Amendments and Recognition in such a way that some of the legislative acts were not valid. [[on the collective agricultural industry]] I can add from myself for the remainder of the time that, if there are no significant objections to national MPs, it can also be accepted as a law as a whole. Let me just say that in the fight against collective property, the authorities of all generations and the Supreme Council have destroyed collective agriculture, collective agriculture and we are increasingly eating imported products, and collective agriculture is not working. That is, they showed such ignorance at the state level when rather than collective property, they overcame collective form.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u107	Give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u108	That is, by concluding that, indeed, when we make such a decision, we need to keep thinking about how to bring back to life the legal form of a collective agricultural organization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u109	Dear colleagues, report, report completed. Please sign two in, two in. Roman Tchac, please. Is there a Roman Mikhailovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u110	Yes, there is.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u111	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u112	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the honourable ones! Well, I don't think we should be crying out here about the law that works, about collective farming and about the form of property that existed in the Soviet Union. Now you just have to calm down, once this collective farming law is repealed, and you have to calmly accept it on the first reading, then work on it, and I think you need to work on it faster to sort our legislation. I therefore urge everyone to vote in favour in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u113	Yes, please, Sergey Tereshuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u114	The Lithuanian faction deputies support the bill. We also believe that our laws should be brought into line with the Code of Earth, the Civil Code. But, at the same time, we warn against adopting the law as a whole. Let's take it as a base. Consider that he makes changes to five more laws. Therefore, we should approach the proposed changes with balance, make our proposals, and then vote with balance.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u115	Adam Martinyuk, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u116	Dear voters, distinguished national MPs! On this platform, I wanted to ask each of us, who recently read a rather fundamental article by well-known agrarian and industrial workers, which was published in our body about two weeks ago in the newspaper Voice of Ukraine? I think if the person who read this article and drew attention to the signatures of those who have signed their signatures under this article, there will be no vote for such a law. Because there are people who have spent their whole lives developing agriculture, building a powerful agricultural and industrial complex in our country in world practice, in the practice of the state of Ukraine proving and convincing, the land is something that can never be traded and given to private property for nothing. If we're voting with you now for this law, please tell us where we're going to take 836 CSOs -- collective agricultural enterprises that exist in the state today? After this law 836, there are tens of thousands of workers. It should be said that you do not have the right to life. This is a closed farm known in the Plains region, which is headed twice by the Socrates Hero.Plutinski. Whoever's been there knows how they work, and they're like: Engine in Hersonian and so on. Where are the children of these people, if we are now adopting this law? Surrender! By adopting this law, we will only make people’s lives worse! From what it will be, they will tell us “thank you” except for those who want to seize the land that can still be seized. Be the people's deputies - defenders from the ground!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u117	Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. May I have your attention, please? Please prepare for the vote. The committee's proposal to accept as a basis, so this proposal is about voting. On the basis of the draft law on amendment and definition, some Ukrainian legislation on collective farming has been lost. Registration number 2534. Please vote. [[12:51:09]] For 349 Decision taken. The factions, please. Region Party 140, Timoshenko Yulia Block 146, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" 0. No, I'm sorry. "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" – 45, Communist faction – 0, "Litvina Block" – 18. Now, honourable colleagues, the proposal made by the committee to accept it as law, we cannot accept it, since the warning has been given. That's why I'd like to work on the committee. Dear colleagues, let me inform you of the meetings of the Conciliation Council. We've made decisions, we've now considered two decisions and we've decided on them. First order of business, please! And we agreed that we're just going to put the vote so that we don't have any political differences over these documents, this is a draft order for recognition that has lost the validity of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Order on Appointing Under-Second Elections of Deputies of the Ternopil District Council. [[Registration number 3686]] I'm putting this document to a vote. [[12:52:42]] For 292 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, by factions, please. Region Party - 147, Timoshenko Yulia Block - 141, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" - 4, Communist faction - 0, "Litvina Block" - 0. Now, please listen to the draft decree to be put to the vote. Under this draft regulation are the signatures of all the leaders and authorized representatives of the factions. In order to stop all political discussions and bring the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine into an even more constructive river, that is the answer to all the questions that we have been dealing with lately. Draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the arrangements for the organisation of individual expenditure of the State budget of Ukraine. With a view to reducing the expenditure of the State budget of Ukraine during the financial and economic crisis on the material and technical security of the public authorities, the payment of labour, the socio-economic security of the officials of these bodies, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides: First. The Office of the Ministers of Ukraine to arrange the salaries of the President of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, the National Deputys of Ukraine, the head of the RNB, the Secretary of the President of Ukraine, the State Administration, the Office of the Supreme Council, the Secretary of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the heads of the other central executive bodies, the heads of the district of Kiev and Sevastopol city administrations, temporarily by 1 January 2010, reducing the maximum wage of these officials and their deputies. By 16 March 2009, the Supreme Council had proposed amendments to the Ukrainian legislative acts aimed at sorting out the salaries of employees of the National Bank of Ukraine, relevant State institutions and organizations, with a view to reducing the maximum amount of their salaries by at least twice; ensuring that the salaries of directors and deputy directors of courts, prosecutors' offices, other law enforcement agencies, including special status, halved by the maximum amount of salaries paid by the designated officials; and a decision on the reduction in the remuneration of public monopolistic enterprises according to the census established by the Cabinet of Ministers. It's a decree. Second, this decision takes effect on the day of its adoption. These proposals are also entirely in the line of proposals of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and they are in line with the Cabinet of Ministers, and they have found support for all factions. I'm voting on a draft regulation on how to organise individual expenditures of the State budget of Ukraine. Please vote for adoption as a whole as a decision. [[12:56:06]] For 374 Decision taken. The factions, please. Region Party: 151, Timoshenko Yulia Block – 142, Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense – 34, Communist faction – 27, Litvina Block – 20. A draft of the Animal Identification and Registration Act, registration number 3008, is being announced for consideration. Reporter: Minister of Agrarian Politics Melnik Yuri Fedorovich Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u118	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! You are presented with a draft of the Ukrainian Animal Identification and Registration Act. The system of identification and registration of farm animals is an integral part of animal and veterinary medicine. The purpose of its implementation and operation in the country’s territory is to implement the main strategic tasks of the State in the area of public health; to control the state’s exodus; to ensure that the country’s population is safe for animal nutrition; and to ensure the competitiveness of animal production in European and world markets. The system of identification and registration of farm animals has been in operation in our country since 2003. This system is designed to take account of the requirements of European legislation, which are defined by the relevant regulations and directives of the European Parliament and the European Commission. It should be noted that similar systems are in place and functioning in countries that are members of the European community in other parts of the world, confirming their need and effectiveness. One example is when, in the context of a complex episodeal situation with regard to the spongy incephalopathy of a large bovine animal in Europe at the beginning of the 21st century, the existence of an animal identification and registration system allowed for the rapid identification and elimination of the outbreak of this disease, and perhaps one of the essential requirements of the European Union for an animal-exporting country is the presence of a system for the identification and registration of farm animals in that country. At present, relations are linked to the identification and registration of agricultural animals in part, I emphasize, only partially regulated by the following normative, regulatory and legal instruments: Ukraine’s Law “Pro. ?? Case, Ukrainian Veterinary Medicine Act, Presidential Decree of 22 March 2001 No 192, as well as certain decrees and orders of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. But there is no law that directly defines the organizational and legal principles for the identification and registration of agricultural animals in the country today. Except.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u119	Give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u120	The Law on the Identification and Registration of Animals also provides for the need to adapt the legal and regulatory framework of Ukraine to the European Union legislation in part of those legislative acts which oblige animal owners to take measures for the identification and registration of agricultural animals. It is predicted that the law will be enforced. A system of reliable control of animal health and animal health and the origin of food will, in turn, ensure that the territory of the country is protected from the spread of episodes and will ultimately enable the population of Ukraine to provide high quality and safe food. The other one. Increase exports of agricultural products of animal origin to European and other world markets. Third. Establish animal meat labelling in order to provide consumers with information about the origin of such animal products. Next. Introduce modern animal monitoring systems based on reliable information on the number of headquarters of different species. Apply modern approaches to forecasting animal production markets and introduce targeted state support systems for animal producers. And to meet the demands of tribal affairs and to allow for the admission of world and European animal organizations. Ladies and gentlemen, please support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u121	Thank you. Have a seat, please. The deputy head of the Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations, Rybuk Sergey Mikolayovich, will make a joint statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u122	The honourable national MPs, in fact, as we have just heard from the Minister's report, are quite relevant and important, and are called upon not to play any role in further development, particularly the animal sector and especially the quality of food. That is, it aims to implement the major strategic tasks of the state in the area of public health, particularly with Ukraine on its way to the EU. To ensure control of the epidemiological situation in the state, we all know from modern history how important it is to ensure that the population is safe to health with animal food, especially the competitiveness of animal production in European, world markets, and the control of the import of livestock, meat, which is also very important and relevant in our country today. I want to tell you that the animal identification system, the animal registration system, namely, the big cattle, is actually in place and has been in place since 2003. Moreover, the central authorities of the executive branch have already visited normative acts more than 300 pages. And there's an appropriate system created in our state. And we should take the basis of this bill. And the Agrarian Policy Committee recommends that the Supreme Council do so. But there is a danger today. And I would like, using the presence of executive power, especially Minister Melnik, to say that registration is paid and appetites are increasing, because three years ago the registration had to pay 13 dollars, and today the peasant has to pay 60 dollars. So you don't have to show up here and abuse this situation, see if it's technical. And in general, let's support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u123	You have everything, Sergey Mikolayovich, don't you? Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up if you wish. Please put the names of the national deputies on the sign-up sheet. Katerina Vaschuk, please. Then Gumenjuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u124	Please pass it on to Tereshku.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u125	Sergei Tereshuk, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u126	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The Lithuanian faction deputies support the bill tabled by the Ministry and believe that it is on time today. But at the same time, we want to pay attention to three such details: it's time for the bill to be enacted if it's accepted as a law in force. It can only be next year. Let's draw attention to what Comrade Ribuk said about the need to predict sources of funding. The registration will not be free of charge. It is likely that expenses from the state budget will be incurred. The budget committee does not have the right conclusions for the bill. And thirdly, there is such a proposal that the Ministry of Agrarian Policy will also work to make it more clear that it is precisely a list of the information that will have to be submitted to documents when animals are introduced into a single register. And then the bill can be adopted, and it'll be legal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u127	National Deputy Gumenjuk, “Our Ukraine” faction. Roman Tkac, please transfer the right to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u128	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I've been going through what my colleague Sergey Tereshuk said. Indeed, this bill is clearly to be adopted, but it is to be adopted only in the first reading. What's going on? About two or three years ago, there was an inventory of big cattle in our country. But the question is that the government will take charge of this job. Because it turns out, you know, it's a closed circuit. We've got to make a list, we've got to identify it, we've got to get it into a single register. But the question is that all the pay for this work, starting with the billing and finishing for the documentation, falls on the population. And the population is just hiding, it doesn't give us a point of view of this animal. And that's why I think, because here, in the bill, there are proposals from the Ministry of Finance where they only offer to take part in paying for these jobs. I'd still say we should adopt this bill. But 100 percent of it is a separate tape in the government budget to place funding for the identification and registration of the cattle. Because when it goes 50 percent, they're going to put another particle on the population. And the population is just going to turn it down. So I call for a vote in favour, but only in the first reading do I put a hundred percent of the funding in the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u129	Thank you. Dear colleagues! There's no other offer? That is, the committee's proposal to accept as a basis coincides with the proposals made by the national MPs who have just made a statement. Therefore, a proposal for adoption by a committee based on draft law, registration number 3008, for the identification and registration of animals is put to the vote. Please vote. [[13:06:26]] For 376 Decision taken. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Farming, registration number 3012, has been announced for consideration. The rapporteur is Minister of Agriculture Yuri Fedorovich Melnik. Sergey Mikolaiovich Ribuk will be the narrator. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u130	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Ukraine's Amendment to the Agriculture Act was designed to expand the number of recipients of state financial support for the financial support programme for agricultural holdings, namely through the participation of farmers who are located and active in agricultural areas with the status of mountain and policy. In addition, the bill provides for compensation for the acquisition of one tractor, a combine, a truck, regardless of whether it is the first one. Let me remind you that this is the norm that is being strictly regulated today. The term “farm farming with separate gardens” is also defined. The adoption of this bill will contribute to the stable activity of farmers and to the efficiency of the use of State budget funds to support them. People's deputies would like to support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u131	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Thank you. Sergey Mikolaiovich, please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u132	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations has considered a draft of the Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Agriculture to improve the legal regulation of agricultural activities, such as the definition of the concept of a “segregated farm garden”, the provision of state-owned financial support to farmers and newly established farms with a separate farm garden, I stress, especially in the Western, Polish part of our country, and especially in mountain areas where it is not possible to conduct an expanded production of large-scale products, where conditions all coincide with farming as a separate garden. This is mainly the case with amendments to this bill in order to introduce concepts and channel certain financial resources to create real farming in our country. So the committee unanimously decided to support and adopt the bill as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u133	Thank you. Sergei Mikolaiovich. Dear colleagues, please sign up to discuss this with the bill. Please put the names of the people's deputies on the board. National Deputy Arzhevtin, “Our Ukraine” faction. Lilia Grigorovich, faction “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u134	Lilia Grigorovich, MP “For Ukraine!” No doubt we offer the whole faction to support the bill in the first reading. Why the first? Because there are a number of issues, such as a letter from the Supreme Court on October 8, 2008, which to some extent stops the issue of acts of individual species until 2017. So, of course, on the first reading, we're going to support this bill. It's very good that we're finally dealing with the legislative level of farming. I personally, as a representative of the “For Ukraine” group, regretting that we have misinterpreted our parliamentary economy, that today, listening to the information of the foreign minister, we have voted in violation of the Rules in favour of a becimto resignation, thus violating existing legislation. It's too bad our farm isn't going to be able to figure it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u135	Thank you. I can only say that I completely agree with you, but not the part that something was broken. It's just that this is the position of the deputy corps of ours. Alexander Pecklusenko, faction of the Party of the Regions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u136	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, I return to the previous law. I believe that this importance of the law, as we have considered, cannot be considered on short notice, we should have considered it as a whole, because that previous law is very much at risk. [[Roman Tkac]] Surely there will be no money in the budget, perhaps the law will repeat the problem we faced in the country today, with subsidies and a private home. We wanted it as good as ever. That's what's going to happen. Veterinary, security is one thing, and taking into account, especially in Ukrainian, today will lead to a reduction in the population in the private sector. Therefore, I repeat that our faction has categorically opposed the problem of peasants and singles. On the second question. We support 100 per cent of all that benefits farmers. I personally met farmers in Orehov district that week, and they were outraged by the conduct of the Minister and the Ministry. What did you really do? One-and-a-half liters of diesel, is it a hectare? In general, Mr. Minister, on behalf of the Zaporozhye farmers, I invite you to visit the Zaporozhye area and talk professionally, talk closely, talk about real problems. We will therefore vote in favour of this law, and I repeat: we will never allow officials to abuse the people who are today creating national wealth. 183 billion. USD is such an increase in the purchase of production. The village is the unit that will bring out the entire chain of economic and crisis problems.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u137	Oleg Lazko, then Adam Martinyuk. Oleg Laszko, faction of the “Blanket of Yulia Timoshenko”. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u138	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. The previous colleague asked a rhetorical question to Mr. Melnik's minister: what did you really do? Dear Alexander Mikolaiovich, just a week ago, the farmers received an additional 260 million by decision of the government. Money for a loan. In addition, we are now considering a government draft law that provides for farms located in mountain settlements to provide financial support on a non-returnal basis in the field. [[I'll give you an accent!]] In recent years, the government has held two dozen meetings, including with farmers, to discuss the issue of crisis relief and financial assistance. The government is now preparing a bill to amend Ukraine's State Budget, which will increase the financing of the agri-industrial complex. Today, under the initiative of the government and the Prime Minister, a scheme has been established whereby grain traders in exchange for VAT receive grain, sell, earn money from the agrarian fund. The Agrarian Fund receives VAT, which is billions of dollars, and it provides a crop purchase last year, which in some places has not been collected today, and for the next year's harvest. So I think Ukrainian peasants, an agro-industrial complex, farmers are not overlooked by the government, and this attention will be even more active and more effective. There is no doubt about it, and that is why the faction of Yulia Timoshenko will vote in favour of this bill, and for many others who are prepared by the government to support the agri-industrial complex. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u139	Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u140	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. I've just listened to a great report about what the government is doing in the agricultural sector, and the tears have buried in the village! All of this is right, decisions are made much, but unfortunately none of them are implemented and are not real. Call me and show me the banks that give or repay these loans to farmers. There's a solution, but it's not being implemented because banks, the more commercial banks, are completely beyond government control. This is one moment. And the other one. It's very good that the government is doing so much for the village, but if it really cared about the village, the bill that I've been yelling about here is that you can't accept and eliminate collective agricultural enterprises, the government wouldn't make it. Because if he cared about the various forms of property and the rights of these various forms of property, he would want to eliminate them in order to decontaminate the land. As far as this bill is concerned, as a representative of the Polish region, I will, of course, support and prepare my colleagues in faction to support this bill, because whoever knows what Polissa is, whoever knows what mountain areas of our country is, understands what conditions they have to manage. So I urge the entire session room to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u141	Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. Please don't call it a minute of gossip, but don't call it a nickname again.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u142	Thank you, mate. That he gave me an opportunity to answer. In this regard, I appeal to the agrarians present and listening to us. Please tell me, do you need 20, 30, 40 meetings on the agrarian complex? How many meetings do a separate farmer need? Tell me, sit down so well, why is it so bad? Why is agriculture booming? And in terms of figures, the following figures, respected peasants and agrarians, decreased from 3.5 billion per loan this year by 6.5 times; the same is true of 2.5 times the support of livestock. And the unfortunate, pathetic millions that you're offering in accounting and statistics, they don't decide anything. That is why we can tell a long and boring story about the distinguished Government and the Minister, and we must go to the people. We need to talk and develop an urgent programme of measures to help the village.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u143	Dear colleagues, no name. Please, there was no last name. Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. The committee's proposal, supported by the MPs, is to adopt the bill as a basis. So I'm voting on the basis of the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Farming. Registration number 3012, please vote. [[13:18:21]] For 396 Decision taken. Here was an offer to be adopted as a law. The committee doesn't mind? No one's denying it from their colleagues? May I put it to a vote? I'm voting on a proposal to adopt a draft law amending the agricultural law. Registration number 3012 as a matter of law. Please vote. [[13:19:01]] For 390 The law is passed. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we now have to consider two draft laws: registration number 2626 and 3338. So let's do this: we'll listen to these two draft reports, and then we'll listen to the committee's position immediately after two bills. We'll do the vote separately. Is there no objection? And we'll discuss them together then. The draft Laws amending certain Ukrainian legislation on soil fertility protection, registration number 2626, and the relevant draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on soil fertility conservation, registration number 3338, are being announced for consideration. Rapporteurs are National Deputy of Ukraine Sergey Mikolayovich Tereshuk, Minister of Agriculture Policy Yuri Fedorovich Melnik and co-reporter will speak as head of the Committee's subcommittee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations Valeriy Fedorovich Bevanko. Please, Sergey Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u144	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Article 14 of the Constitution states that the earth is the principal national asset under the special protection of the State. We're so used to it, at every turn we're talking about having the best black man in the world. Is that true? What is the state of our land? And you know, nobody's going to answer that question because we've had some ground tests in Ukraine for the last time -- I'm paying your attention: the last time was done! - in 1962. For 47 years, we don't know what's going on in the earth. According to individual surveys, scientists have concluded that the humus in our Blacklands has decreased by 25 to 30 percent. Why did this happen? The economic situation, the land reform is not complete, the reform of collective agricultural enterprises, and most importantly, the state does not have effective mechanisms for land control. As a result, we have a change of heart. Look at what's going on: the rape, the sunflower, anything. Today, the concept of “culturasamine” was introduced instead of the “seizure” invented by our scholars Prianics, Bolotov, Tired. So today we need to give the State a mechanism to control this true wealth. We need to make changes to the Earth Code, to the Land Authority Act, we need to do, we need to produce land-use documentation that reform can talk about, or we need to continue Earth reform if we don't do land inventory, which is the bill that requires land inventory, which is the bill that requires agrochemical testing, to make the right changes. I'm not talking about the economic component anymore, it's going to make it possible to predict and plan crops of agriculture in Ukraine. That's why I'm addressing you, dear colleagues, it's not a political law, it's absolutely necessary today for peasants and residents of the city, all people who care about our land. And I'm going to go ahead and say that there are laws that.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u145	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u146	The Ministry of Agrarian Politics, the bills are similar, and these two bills can be made into a bill that can really control land use. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u147	Thank you. Please invite me to the report of the Minister of Agrarian Politics. Yuri Fedorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u148	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The draft law is designed as a draft act in the legal and regulatory framework for improving the efficient and rational use of agricultural land. The current development and adoption of this document is due to a wide range of factors that are common today, and Sergey Mikolayovich Tereshuk said in detail about them. The draft law provides for amendments to Ukraine's Land Code, Ukraine's Code on Administrative Offences, Ukraine's Criminal Code, Ukraine's Land Protection Laws, the Land Administration Act and the creation of conditions that will determine the increased efficiency and rational use of agricultural land and the responsibility of landowners and land users for the depletion of land resources. The main purpose of the bill is to: First. Identifying legal, economic and environmental foundations for the rational and efficient use of agricultural land and strengthening State control in this area. The other one. The mandatory availability of land - based projects that develop land conservation projects and scientifically based sums according to zone characteristics and the specialization of enterprises. Third. The definition of an agreement procedure for projects that will allow to regulate the structure of sown areas, based on economic and environmental objectives, such as increasing the area of strategic phytosanitary and land-based crops. Ladies and gentlemen, please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u149	Thank you. Have a seat. Valerius Fedorovich Bevanko, please position the committee for two of these bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u150	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine. With regard to your proposals for bills, it should be noted that they differ between themselves only because the Cabinet Bill is further proposed to amend the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences and the Ukrainian Criminal Code with a view to strengthening state control in this area. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine believes that the position of the bill introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers regarding the responsibility for the use of agricultural land without the development or approval of projects is not appropriate for inclusion in the Criminal Code and the Code of Administrative Offences, which imposes responsibility only for the arbitrary deviation from projects by the country. There are also objections to the proposed size of sanctions for appropriate offences, which are much higher than those applied in these laws. This also applies to the changes proposed in the Ukrainian Criminal Code regarding the increase in fines for criminal offences, namely, for the lack of land use, since they do not take into account good practice in solving the issue. In view of the above, and taking into account the conclusions of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee proposed the adoption of the bill of registration number 2626 by the Ukrainian National Deputies Tereshuk and Lithuania. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u151	Yes, thank you, too. You're in for two bills right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u152	With regard to the government bill, return the subject of the legislative initiative to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u153	Thank you. The position of the committee, your esteemed colleagues, has been brought to your attention. Thank you. Have a seat, please. Discussion. Please sign up with two bills. Please put on the board the name of the national deputies who signed up for the performance. Katerina Vaschuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u154	Dear National MPs, indeed, this bill is very important to preserve the fertility of the earth, which is what we store for generations to come. The fact that there are no individual landowners today, that every year a sunflower, a rapper, burns out the ground -- sooner or later, we will talk about the Ukrainian countries in the past. Therefore, this law must be approached with great responsibility and indeed strengthened by administrative, criminal law for misusing Ukraine’s main national wealth. In the absence of the structures of the sown areas and the preservation of the fertility of the land, not only should we ask the owners, but we should order them to do so, and then we will pass on the fertile land to the next generation. And the second. It is very important that before the second reading in this bill be taken into account, so seriously, not only by the rules of responsibility, but also by the possibility of obtaining the support of the state if the farmer, the landlord, whoever he is, the landlord of the land adheres to the absolute summation, the preservation of the land, the well-regarded preservation and the increase of its fertility. Then all the programs the government's offering, the government's giving, though not enough, but still a hectare of land for cultural supplies and so forth. To give first of all to those who are very knowledgeable.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u155	Yes, Roman Tkac, the right to speak is given to him by a colleague of Arjewitin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u156	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Indeed, it is a good thing that both the Cabinet of Ministers and our fellow national deputies passed these bills. But in general, by supporting both sides, I would still like to say a reference to two bills, the essence of which is the following. Any law will only be implemented in one case when control is activated. Look at the paradox we've had today, in the state. Minecology today has its own ecological inspection. Today, the Land Commission has its own land inspection. Today, Minagroprom has the State Fertility Service and, in fact, agrochemical laboratories remain in every area. But there's not a single government body that actually controls soil fertility, soil composition, sifting and so forth. So I think in this case we should do it this way. To be adopted, according to the Agrarian Policy Committee, in the first reading, on the basis of the adoption of the parliamentary bill. And take part in the proposals proposed in the Cabinet Bill. But in fact, either a separate decision or a separate chapter in this bill, before the second reading, to make such a suggestion that during the mid-term or year of the Cabinet of Ministers create a single structure in, for example, the Minagropolitics, because there are still professionals who can control it. Because we have everything in us so that we don't take you and me here without proper control, nothing will happen. So that we do not speak, but today Ukraine is at the threshold of adopting the earth’s market. There's going to be a land market in a year or two or three. But if we don't have effective control over the use of commercial land, because this is actually about commercial land, about those that have 100 or more hectares, there's not going to be any effect. So the proposal is to accept it in the first reading. But the Cabinet of Ministers is tasked with creating a single service to control the quality of the land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u157	Thank you. Sergey Mikolaiovich Ribuk, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u158	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have pressed the red button not because it is against the substance of this bill, but because the actions of the executive branch and the passing of the bills they give are completely the opposite. More and more laws and laws, especially in terms of soil fertility, appear to be growing in our country, and less and less funding. You will not lie to the earth, because you have laid it, and you will take it with profit. Why is the last small article on soil fertility and destruction in the budget? In order to destroy the earth by adopting such laws? At the same time, they boast about the soil, the fertility of the soil in Ukraine, while they degrade, even die when 48,000 hectares [48,000 ha] a year grow in weeds, tails, and bushes. So, of course, for agrochemical passporting, agrochemical testing, soil fertility measures, it's important to have. And we're going to have to support Sergei Tereshuk's bill, send the government to work on it, and what's useful is to take this one bill. However, when we often talk about SATs, we have entered the possibilities, and today we have a great opportunity to devote much more money to protecting soil fertility. Because if you do not, it will be the same fate as that of the Law on the Prohibition of Burns. If the complex has not been decided, 50 million tons of straw burns, and the law is, and there is no result. So in the next, in the second reading, we need to see if we can bind ourselves to the system of financing and financial support of this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u159	Dear colleagues, the 2226 Bills, the author Sergey Tereshuk, and Bill 3338, are now in office. Committee proposal: to adopt bill 2626 as a basis. And with regard to Bill 3338, the government, the committee proposes to send for further work. I'm going to put the turn of the vote in order. May I have your attention, please? There is a motion for a committee to adopt as a basis for the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts, registration number 2626. [[on the protection of soil fertility]] Please vote. [[13:34:20]] For 379 Decision taken. How are we doing now? Dear colleagues, now the bill of government. Because there is a proposal for a committee to send for work, but at the same time, I have to put an offer on the basis of acceptance. I therefore put to the vote the first proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law on Amendments to some Ukrainian legislators, registration number 3338. [[on soil fertility conservation]] [[government]] Please vote. [[13:35:14]] For 229 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, Roman Tkac has made a very important proposal. Let's maybe make a mission or prepare a mission to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to make proposals for the creation of a single integrated land control system. Is there no objection? We'll assume that we've agreed to that decision. We continue our morning session until 14.15 minutes, or 15 minutes. And a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the National Geological Service of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on licensing control and licensing]] The rapporteur is the first Deputy Minister for Environmental Protection, Lizon Stepan Aleksiowiovich. The focal point will be the chairman of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, Natalia Jurijovna Královska. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u160	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Your view is proposed by a bill designed to bring the Ukrainian National Geological Service Act into line with two laws: the First Act is “On the Basic Principles of State Control in the Field of Economic Activity” and the Second Act is “On the licensing of certain types of economic activity”. It's made up of two parts. In fact, the first part corresponds to one very important point: licensing the type of “harvesting” activity. I mean, I want to emphasize once again, honourable national MPs, because this question has always arisen in committee discussions, not in terms of licenses for the nadra, not in terms of land licences, it is solely about the fact that we are bound by the Law on the licensing of certain types of economic activity, to license a species such as mining, which is not paradoxically settled today, and it is not licensed. So the bill that we're proposing for your adoption, it gives the authorized central authority authority the authority to issue business licenses for the extraction of beneficial fossils from ancestral sites that are of general significance, as provided for by the above law. And the second part or the second question that we're dealing with right now is the question of controlling compliance with licensing conditions. Today, there is, say, a service that controls compliance with licensing conditions, but it is not legally established. And here we also, in accordance with the Act on Fundamental Principles of State Oversight, legitimize the function of monitoring compliance with licensing conditions in the development of Ukraine's nadr. The implementation of this bill will contribute to the effective performance of the tasks assigned to the Min-Natures in the field of drug use. I ask you to uphold this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u161	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Natalia Yuriovna is head of the committee, please. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u162	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! The Committee on Industrial, Regulatory Policy and Enterprise considered the bill at its meeting on 17 September 2008 a draft law on the State Geological Service of Ukraine amending the law of Ukraine. The purpose of the bill is to bring Ukraine's National Geological Service Act into line with the provisions of the Ukrainian Act on Basic Principles of Public Oversight, Control in the Field of Economic Activities and on the licensing of certain economic activities. The project gives a number of powers to the executive body on geological research and use of sub- ones. It is the issue of a licence for mining, land of general importance, and monitoring of compliance with licensing conditions. The State Geological Service carries out these functions under the Cabinet of Ministers Regulation, but requires legislation to regulate this rule of law. The bill was fully supported by committee members. In support of the bill, the Chief Scientific and Expert Office also provided support. In doing so, the management experts rightly point out that article 6, section 2, paragraph 9, of the Law on the State Geological Service of Ukraine, which is supplemented, is contrary to article 1 of the Law on the licensing of certain economic activities. Under the licensing law, licences are not issued to enterprises, institutions and organizations, as stated in the above-mentioned law on the State Geological Service of Ukraine, but to operators. In this connection, the General Scientific and Expert Office proposes in a new version of article 6, paragraph 9, of the Act to delete the words “business”, “establishment”, “organization” and “business operators”. The Committee supports this proposal as it seeks to harmonize our legislation. In other words, the Committee proposes, with the next paragraph of article 6, paragraph 2, “On the State.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u163	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u164	“On the State Geological Service of Ukraine”. I want to say this for the transcript. Licences for exploration, exploration of mineral resources, mining from mining sites, which are of general significance and are included in the State Fund for Mineral Mines, as well as for the mining of precious metals and precious stones and precious stones of organogeneous education, semi-precious stones to monitor compliance with licensing conditions. Thus, the Industrial Regulatory Policy and Enterprise Committee adopted the following decision: to support the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the National Geological Service, registration No. 3018, to submit a bill for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and to propose its adoption as a whole as a law, taking into account the comments of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u165	Thank you. Dear colleagues, if you need to discuss this project, please sign in. Please show the names of the national MPs in on the board. Sergey Shevchuk, faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u166	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. At the faction, the faction is looking at this draft law, and according to members of the Yulia Timoshenko faction, there are enough arguments to recommend that it be adopted both in the first reading and in general, because it will improve the system not only of licensing, but of the state-owned use of natural resources in Ukraine. That is why our faction will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u167	Thank you. Kseni Lapina, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u168	Thank you, Your Honor. Xenia Lapina, group “For Ukraine”. I point out that the government in this draft law finally began to bring Ukraine's legislation into line with the law on State control. Because today, in fact, the geological service performs control functions completely without proper legal grounds. And that's disturbing, so it's a law that needs to be passed. However, the government needs to be given a commission, not to stop. We still have dozens of legislative acts that we also need to bring into line with the law on State control. And the government needs to speed up this work, because, in fact, there is a conflict in legislation today, and the question is, Is State control legally exercised? So I propose to adopt this law as a basis, and if in general, only with the comments that have been made for the transcripts that have been introduced by the Scientific and Scientific Administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u169	National MP Kolesnicko, faction of the Party of the Regions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u170	Please give the word to a colleague at the Plotnikov Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u171	Vadim Plonikov, microphone, please. Alexy Plonikov, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u172	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! I want to support this bill. And I fully agree with the head of the Regulatory Policy Committee that there are some misunderstandings about the first article of the Law on licensing certain types of economic activity, and I hope that this will be brought into line during the process. But in principle, it's a very useful bill, it makes it necessary for a specially authorized central executive authority to study geologically the use of the right to issue licences. So from this point of view, it's actually a technical bill that improves economic activity. So I propose to support this bill in the first reading with appropriate further elaboration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u173	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. The committee's proposal was to take it as a basis and in general, taking into account the scientific expertise's proposals. Therefore, I will put to the vote the adoption of the Draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the National Geological Service of Ukraine, registration number 3018. [[on licensing and licensing control]] Please vote. [[13:45:29]] For 353 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, the committee proposes to take into account the observations of the Scientific and Experimental Administration and taking into account this, and here was the opinion of the National Deputies of the same, to accept this project as a law as a whole. The point is that from the new edition of article 6, section 9, paragraph 2, of the Law, the words “undertakings, institutions and organizations, as well as natural persons, subjects of entrepreneurial activity” are deleted. With this in mind, if there are no warnings, we can put to the vote a draft law as a whole as a law. No warning? So I'm putting this proposal to a vote. Please vote. For adoption, taking into account the proposal made, and generally as a law, registration number 3018. It's for the stenographer. [[13:46:27]] For 342 The law is passed. Announcing the draft Law approving the amendment to article 22 of the Constitution of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, registration number 3653. [[on the term of office of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic]] The reporter, Sergey Grigorovich Mishchenko, National Deputy, will be the co-rapporteur of the Committee on Legal Policy, Elina Viktorovn Šishkin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u174	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! I want to remind you that the changes to the Constitution of Crimean Autonomy are adopted by the law of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In September 2008, the Supreme Council of Crimea issued a decree to bring the Constitution of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea into line with the Constitution of Ukraine, writing in article 22 that the term of office of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea is five years. If we adopt this bill, so that there are no two such comments or interpretations of this law, that we continue the term to the deputies of the Autonomous Republic of the Crimea yet my powers, I want to agree with the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority and the Committee of Legal Policy, which fully approved the amendment, that the finalization of this law should be prescribed as follows. Please think carefully about this, in these final positions. That the law enters into force takes effect on the day of the opening of the first session of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the composition of which is chosen in the next consecutive or consecutive elections to the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u175	Yes, thank you. Now we're going to listen to the committee's position. Please, the head of the Committee on Legal Policy, Elina Viktorovn Shishkin. Committee opinion, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u176	Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! The Legal Policy Committee at its meeting on February 10, 2009, reviewed the draft Law approving the amendment to article 22 of the Constitution of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea regarding the term of office of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. It should be noted that in September 2008, the Supreme Council of Autonomy amended article 22 of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, which envisioned its term of office for five years. This decision was based on the fact that article 22 of the Constitution of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea does not comply with part of article 141 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which provides for a term of office for representative bodies for five years. It should be noted that according to the Constitution of Ukraine and the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of 18 September 2008, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has been authorized to approve the Constitution of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Just approve, and approve, the corresponding changes. At the same time, according to the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority, the introduction of this law is only appropriate for the newly elected Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. In this way, the committee supports the findings of the General Scientific and Scientific Administration and proposes: The Supreme Council will consider and accept in general and on a basis. On the basis and in general, excuse me, the Law of Ukraine approving the amendment to article 22 of the Constitution of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, taking into account the observations of the General Scientific and Scientific Administration on the introduction of this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u177	Yes, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the performance. Please sign up. Yuri Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u178	Dear voters, dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. I would just like to say that our faction supports such changes to the Constitution of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, especially since the function of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is merely to approve. And the decision of the legislature of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea has already been adopted. Why is this question organic? Not only does it fit the Constitution of Ukraine, the Constitution of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, because the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, as a separate subject, is governed by the 10th chapter of the Constitution of Ukraine. And there, unfortunately, was no provision for the five - year term of authority provided for local self - government bodies, as defined in article 141 of the Constitution. And so there was a need to settle this issue in the Constitution of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. We have the only order of formation of local self-government, including the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. And I think it's perfectly logical that this law will be in effect as soon as the MP Corps is elected. Although I do understand our colleagues who offer to extend the mandate. At the same time, we are simply not allowed to do so by the Constitution itself. The law has no reverse power. And understanding that we need to bring the rules of the Crimea Constitution and the norms of the Constitution of Ukraine into line, we can't rule this out in any other way than the next time we call on the Crimea Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u179	Thank you. Ruslan Knazevic, please, the faction “Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u180	Dear colleagues, I'd like your attention, because it's actually a completely impenetrable, messy decision. We are now considering an extremely important fundamental issue not only for the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, but for all the local councils, ranging from rural to district. For some reason, we forgot that the authors of the decree on this, in addition to the fact that these issues are regulated at the level consistent with the Constitution of Ukraine and the Constitution of Crimea and the Law on Elections to Local Councils. More specifically, there is the Law on Elections to Local Councils, which was adopted in April 2004. And in the Transitional Regulations to this Act, the Supreme Council said that in 2006 there were elections to the Supreme Council of Crimea and all the local councils for a term of five years, but only if, as far as the Supreme Council of the Republic of Crimea is concerned, changes to the Crimea Constitution will be made until then, and as far as all other councils are concerned, changes will be made to the Constitution of the Supreme Council, ee, Ukraine. But the point is that part 1 of article 141 of the Constitution came into force after the Supreme Council became full - time in May 2006. Thus, if we make this decision, it means that not only the Supreme Council of Crimea, but all other councils, starting from rural to district, will end in the following year. And the five - year - old comes only from the next election, which will be held in 2010. Given these circumstances and considering that there is a different position, as far as I can see, which was given last time by the Head of the Supreme Council, and by the management of the Cabinet of Ministers on the contrary, for the extension of the term of even the heads of the village, because we must now avoid unnecessary politicization and conduct such a kind of kaleidoscope of elections, I think we should take this question for the first time in the first reading. Then take a lift to find out what these conditions are at a professional level. For not all are fully taught what is going on. And then it could be too late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u181	Adam Martinyuk, please, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u182	My dear colleagues, I am pleased that our lawyers have finally spoken in one language, regardless of their membership in various political forces. But everyone who came out of this rostrum today was absolutely right in that, first of all, it's not as simple as some want to show. And secondly, there really is a huge conflict here. I would like to stress once again what colleague Knazevitch was talking about, which, in fact, by adopting the changes to the Constitution, we have clearly stated that the position on the terms of action of the local councils elected in 2006, including the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, will depend on when the constitutional change takes effect. And since we were not able, unfortunately, to adopt legislation related to local self - government, since we did not know the time before the introduction of the first September 2005 deadline, changes to the Constitution came into effect only after the Supreme Council of the Fifth Call, that is, from May 2006. And if we now allow the slightest inaccuracies, that is, if we don't now take into account the proposal proposed by the rapporteur, that we need to support the proposal of the chief, more loyal, scientific and expert administration, the proposal of the Crimea Supreme Council, if we don't write it down, then we will create a collegiate, which may lead to the fact that we will continue for another year the term of the Supreme Council of Crimea, and the election of all the other local councils will be held not after five years, but after four years. So let's please support the proposal of those with whom everyone here was the only one who was speaking. You can take it as a whole. It can be adopted in general, but taking into account the final transitional provisions in force for the new Supreme Council of the Republic of Crimea. Thank you and I'd like to vote that way.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u183	The Blackmore People's Deputies, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u184	Dear colleagues, I would like to make some clarification on this matter. It is the case that the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea took its first decision on this issue in April 2005. And here's Boris Dawdovich Daych, who is then chairman of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, can confirm that. Since then, in 2006, I have personally introduced a bill stating that the term of office of a member of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea under the Constitution should be five years, not four years. In addition, a bill was passed in this room, and I also reported on the status of a member of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. And we have adopted this bill, which sets the term of office for a member of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea for five years. For some reason, the five-year provision fell out of the Law on the Election of Local Councils and the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, and the Crimean must now suffer for it. Where is the logic, and what do we do now with the Law on the Status of the Deputy of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea? You don't have to insult the Crimean and then say that Crimea is so bad for Ukraine. You don't have to start these processes. On the contrary, we must go to a meeting with the criminals if they have made such a decision. I would support the Deputy Knazević here if it was no longer possible to adopt the bill the way some rapporteurs wanted him here, in the first reading, to adopt it, but to finalize it so that today's deputies would still have a term of office for five years.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u185	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill is closed. We must make a responsible decision. But it's quite obvious that we can't make a decision that the Supreme Council would artificially extend the term of 1 year through its vote. With the same success, you can make a decision about the President to continue the term, both for the Supreme Council and for everyone. Let's stick to the law. Then we can, fellow believers, be obliged to accept this law, for there is nothing to send us to the second reading. Just a minute. But on one condition, if we agree that we have to write in the Transitional Positions, which does not take effect from the day of publication, but on the day of the opening of the first session of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the composition of which is chosen for the next consecutive or consecutive elections to the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. [[But you will listen to the end.]] Otherwise, dear colleagues, we will enter into a conflict with the Constitution. So let's do it this way. Now I'm going to base it on these end positions. For reasons, please write this down. Five minutes of motive. Please. On the board, please show the names of the national MPs who are registered. Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u186	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, this is a case where I think we should be very careful about the novels of these legislators. And I'd like to support Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk here about his comments on what might happen if we hurry, and the legal conflict, and it actually happens that the different authorities of the local government will choose a different term. I think it's wrong to assume that from the start. I think we need to listen to Adam Martinyuk so that the transition positions can be marked when this comes into effect. That's right from a legal point of view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u187	Yes, please, who's next? Abdullin, right? No, Yuri Miroshnichenko. Yuri Miroshnichenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u188	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. You know, right now, even in the hall, there's a really good deal of principle and legal discussion. Realizing that our function, Parliament, to approve the changes, in fact, we have no right in any way to change the rules of the Constitution of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, which they themselves have approved. The discussion is about the time of the introduction of this law. And I don't know if we're going to have a vote to vote on in general. Vladimir Mihajlovich, perhaps now on the basis of voting both in the next plenary week or then together, determine the mandate of how we will choose local self-government authorities in the part where we talk about local head elections. There is also a conflict — four and five years. And then we would have voted to see conceptually how we're developing. Therefore, on the basis of this, perhaps now, it will be voted on and then for the next week, it will be considered as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u189	Please, Yuri Klukkowski, microphone, faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u190	Thank you. I'd like to point out that I'm going to be the fourth and representative of the fourth faction that says the same thing. I agree that the key question right now is time to take action. But I would like to draw your attention to another interesting point that is now being proposed. The point is that if we leave the wording “in the next or the next election”, if there is an extra election, God forbid, we will kick the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea out of the general line of local elections. They will then follow their schedule. This could happen to any local representative body. And for that to happen, I would suggest that in the Princests just leave it “in the next election”. I'm asking you very much to think about it, and that's why we don't want to make a decision with a hot hand, let's take it as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u191	National Deputy Kamchatny, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u192	Kamchatya, Yulia Timoshenko, Kharkiv district. Let's not take bad examples from our President who is bullying the Constitution, especially his last example -- his decree on some reform of the Academy of Legal Sciences. But we'll talk about it. This is going to be a separate conversation. And now I want to support Vladimir Mikhailovich, all those who have actually made proposals to do so, to write the right things in the Final Positions about the deadline and to support Yuri Bogdanovich. I'm already a representative, if you're already counting the fifth faction of these issues, so let's really not abuse the Constitution, because it has a higher power, and act within and within the limits of the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u193	Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u194	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Well, if there are questions about a bill, then there are no questions at all. We accept in first reading only by not changing the letter or comma in the text we have considered. Further to second reading, we can make 10 changes, as Vladimir Mihajlovich rightly said, that we have already begun to speak with one voice. God forbid we and the President start speaking with one public voice and there's someone in the international arena to protect Ukraine. And that's how we lose everything and Snake Island. Thank God, at least. The M.I.D.'s in place. One proposal, therefore, is to vote in favour of the first reading, not to change the text, but to elaborate carefully on the second reading, to link it with the Constitution, without policy, to adopt a bill in the constitutional field. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u195	Yes, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u196	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear People's Deputies, we have written in the Constitution among our powers that we uphold the Constitution of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Therefore, we do not have the right to change the text that is being voted. We can. We can't make law into the body. If we agree, we accept it in the first reading and then in the transitional positions we write and make references to the Constitution of Ukraine. Then it's perfectly normal and it fits the technique, the legal technique. And I want to tell you that in this room we had to take our time and delete 20 articles, to define what is not valid and so on. I think we're going to do the right thing if we're only going to take it on the first reading. Because for the second reading, for example, using the possibility, I'm already warning you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, you don't have to adopt this law as a whole right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u197	Alexander Lavrinovich, please. And now we're going to determine, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u198	Dear colleagues, it would seem that a simple legal-technical issue has caused us much discussion. In c, there is one special article 135 in the Constitution, which stipulates that the Supreme Council of Ukraine approves the Constitution, the corresponding changes to the Constitution of the Republic. We can't do law enforcement here. We can confirm or not confirm. And this is the only law that requires 225 votes to be adopted, in accordance with the Constitution, as we have written. The fact that we're going to establish this rule today doesn't mean that it's going to be the only norm that gets the right to reverse force in time. Like the changes to the Ukrainian Constitution that were adopted in December 2004, the more they entered, the more they took effect at different times, particularly at different times. As far as the powers of the Ukrainian Parliament are concerned, they became effective only in May 2006, after the elections. And the previous assembly of the Ukrainian Parliament was chosen for four years. Just as the ARC Supreme Council has now been formed for four years. That's why I think there's such a lot of hot discussions here. We need to approve the changes that come out of the Ukrainian Constitution that have been introduced into the Constitution of the Republic of Ukraine and with the understanding that they will only take effect for the next time.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u199	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move forward this way: I'm now going to put the committee's proposal on the ground. After that, we need to have another discussion here, because then we're going to get into a conflict with the Constitution and at the same time, in conflict with the local council members, the mayors of cities. It would be best for us to make a single decision, but because we need to make changes to the Constitution, and here we have to make our own decisions, essentially, in the matter of, 226 to adopt this law. 225, I'm sorry. So I'm voting on a proposal by the adoption committee based on the draft law approving the amendment to article 22 of the Constitution of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, registration number 3653. [[on the term of office of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea]] Based on the base. [[14:10:01]] For 350. Decision taken. And let's think about it. No, no, let's make an appointment. We've had our differences here, you know? We'll make a commission to the committee for the next plenary week for Tuesday to do a coordinated project. We're going to have different readings here, and we're not going to make a decision. Do you understand? Well, we agreed, for next plenary week, we'll bring it in, we'll see. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine, registration number 3414, is being announced for consideration. [[on the powers of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, the features of the conduct of constitutional appeals and the non-abuse of the right to constitutional submission]] Please. Oh, I almost said "vote." Alexander Volodymyrovich Laurinovich reports. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u200	Dear colleagues! The project is proposed to fill the gaps in Ukrainian law that relate to the functioning of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine in part of its consideration of three separate problems, and the law itself consists of three parts in practice. The first refers to the procedure for amending the Constitution of Ukraine. We know that making changes to our basic law requires a statement by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. How to address the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, how it should consider a petition is not regulated by any law today. Of course, such a situation led to the initial referral by the Ukrainian National Deputies, then the Supreme Council of Ukraine amended its Rules and ruled on the decision, directed it. Today we have to fill this gap and make it legally defined as required by the Ukrainian Constitution, a clear procedure that the Constitutional Court is considering those proposals that are being made by the Supreme Council of Ukraine solely to comply with the two articles 157 and 158, and not at all by reasoning on the subject of good or bad proposals. The second element envisions the situation with regard to the impeachment of the President of Ukraine. The question is not about the announcement of impeachment, the question that we have a legal gap, where it is also not regulated how the Constitutional Court should deal with this issue, and that the Supreme Council should refer it to the Constitutional Court. Strictly legal rules are being established, which imposes on us which documents the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on the basis of which decision is to refer to the court when the court, in this case, is proposed on the second day after receiving these proposals, is to initiate the trial and when it has.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u201	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u202	Complete the consideration of these suggestions. And the third ingredient concerns the relationship between the President of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the right of the President to stop the actions of the Cabinet of Ministers while addressing the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. It is suggested that this process should also be in place so that we do not have a situation where acts of the Cabinet of Ministers of five years ago are stopped or when this act of the Cabinet of Ministers is stopped after the decision of the Constitutional Court on the second time, or the act of the Cabinet of Ministers is stopped when the case is closed again. That is, that we should simply integrate the relationship between the two higher public institutions in an elementary way, so that they act exclusively in the way that is foreseen by the law of Ukraine. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u203	No, the position of the committee, the honourable colleagues. And then, if you say so, we put it to a vote. Head of the Committee on Legal Policy, Vladimir Philipovich Filippenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u204	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council on Legal Policy considered at its meeting a draft law on the introduction of Zimin into certain laws of Ukraine concerning the powers of the Constitutional Court, introduced by the People's Deputies, Mr. Lavrinović and Mr. Portnov. [[Number 3414]] The bill is designed to improve the legal regulation of the activities of the President of Ukraine and the Constitutional Court of Ukraine by making appropriate changes to the laws of Ukraine, “Pro Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine” and “On the Constitutional Court of Ukraine”. The committee notes that the adoption of the bill will, in particular, allow. Normize the legal principles for stopping the actions of the Ukrainian President of the Cabinet of Ministers on grounds of inadequacy of the Constitution of Ukraine, with simultaneous appeal to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. The other one. It will also allow for the order of the Constitutional Court to establish a bill to amend the Constitution of Ukraine to the requirements of articles 157 and 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine. It is proposed to set a deadline of two months for the Constitutional Court of Ukraine to decide on the opening of constitutional implementation. Also include measures to prevent abuses of the right to constitutional submission. In particular, it is proposed that the Constitutional Court of Ukraine be given the right to refuse to open a constitutional application if there is a Constitutional Court decision on the constitutionality of the content and the legal force of the act or if there is a decision to refuse to open the application of such an act. And this will also allow us to determine the form and content of the appeal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to reach a conclusion by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine regarding the observance of the constitutional procedure for investigating and considering the removal of the President of Ukraine from office in accordance with impeachments. The Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the powers of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, the features of the conduct of constitutional appeals and the non-abuse of the right to constitutional submission, registration number 3414, introduced by the Ukrainian National Deputies Lavrinović and Portnov, as a whole. Thank you and please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u205	Thank you, sit down. Dear colleagues, so that we don't have any collisions here, we've continued our work for 15 minutes, but we need to continue our work now, I'll put it to a vote so that we have a legal frequency here, before the issue is completed. Dear colleagues, well, we're, uh, we're in a conflict here, because the Supreme Council has begun its consideration of the issue. She has to finish. But this requires a decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So I'm putting to the vote the proposal to continue the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine pending the conclusion of the debate on this issue. Please vote. [[14:17:00]] For 296 Decision taken. Please sign up for the performance. No, not if they're desirable. Well, come on, we've already agreed that we don't have mutual claims here. Please have the name of the national MPs on the sign-up table. National MP Koleznichenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u206	Dear colleagues! Koleszenko, faction of Party regions. The legal conflicts that are constantly present in our legislation have proved that we today have a legal vacuum on many issues. And that allows the President to manipulate the cracks that are in the law. And we've been dealing with this all the time. Therefore, I propose that, if we really want to live in the legal field, we gradually build a legal machine that will never and never violate any of the officials. I therefore propose to adopt this bill as a basis. Finally, after all the additions, accept it as a whole. This will enable us to exist in the rule of law and not allow any higher officials to be manipulated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u207	Sergey Mishchenko, faction of the Yuli Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u208	Thank you. Well, at last the Supreme Council appeared, there was a law that really eliminates perhaps not everything, but those negative consequences of political strife among senior officials in the state. I'm two-handed for voting for this bill on the basis and in general. Because, you know, this legal nihilism that exists among senior ranking officials, I think it just, you know, offends us not only as parliamentarians, but the whole nation. So I would like to call upon all the deputies of all factions to support the law of Lavrinovich and vote to give 450 votes in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u209	Yuri Karmazin, “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense” faction, followed by Yuri Klukkowski. Dear colleagues, four men, he pressed the button for it, and it turned out to be more. I'm asking you, come on, dear colleagues. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u210	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. Ladies and gentlemen, in this room, we have repeatedly called attention to the fact that the issues before the Constitutional Court may be prolonged so that they are no longer of interest to society, no one is interested. So what is set out in this project and the term that needs to be considered 15 days from the date of the ruling of the government that can be stopped, and what is being done is limited to the fact that from time to time the Constitutional Court has to work faster, i.e. the obligation to open the constitutional implementation, and this should be no later than two months from the date of the constitutional application or constitutional appeal is positive. But why two months? In two months of crisis, in other circumstances, many things can happen. So I definitely do not want us to accept this very serious bill, for which I certainly thank the authors, on two readings. You can't accept it in two readings. Here you have to reduce 46 articles, two months to one month. In other places other things need to be added, but the question should be in the State about the responsibility of a loving official. And what is happening today when power in the Ukrainian Security Service is usurped for 2.5 years is abnormal. There is a law, there is a decision of the 2000 Constitutional Court. It's not working. And we don't question the responsibility for implementing decisions, including the Constitutional Court. And that's all there is to it, including writing it down. That's why I'm going to support this law. But I ask the question that it should be considered in two readings. Maybe under a reduced procedure, next week, but.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u211	I've already announced Yuri Klukkowski. Dear colleagues, let me ask you. Dear colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! I'm sorry, Your Honor, but I've already announced this. If each faction has a guaranteed right to speak. I want your attention, Your Honor. Let's make a decision. Your point, Adam Ivanovich, is right, I'll take it into account. All of it. Please. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u212	I actually have a feeling, colleagues, that this is a very different atmosphere today. Today, what is being blocked is being fought in a legal way on the grounds that it is necessary to fight a legal dispute. You know, I think I'd like to start this speech with a reminder of the speech of First Deputy Chief of the Supreme Council, Alexander Lavrinovich, at an off-the-book session or an extra session after the vote on Stelma. But have respect for the law. Do not sacrifice it to politics. You know, in this bill that we're discussing right now, there's a lot of good stuff and a lot of new stuff. But not everything new is really beautiful, but something is just scary. Note that it is possible not to consider the constitutionality of an act if it is considered in the same way. And the question I have is, what's the same thing? You know, it reminded me of Captain Wrunguess, who sailed to Africa, but he only had a map of South America, it was a little bit like that, and he made a decision about it. That is the role we want to play in the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. I will not take away the expensive time of lunch for those who want to eat, but I want to say, “Let us respect ourselves, let us not accept this bill.” Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m0.u213	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? The committee's proposal and conclusion is that there is a recommendation for the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt the bill as a basis. I am voting on this proposal, namely, on the adoption of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws concerning the powers of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, the features of the introduction of constitutional appeals and the non-abuse of the right to constitutional submission, registration number 3414. Please vote. [[14:24:29]] For 326 Decision taken. There's a break until 4:00. Then, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. In 16 hours.
