ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, guests of the Supreme Council! Please include the “Council” system. [[10:03:03:03]] There are 429 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The morning plenary session is open. Today is the birthday of our colleagues: the National Deputies of Zvaril Roman Mihajlovich, Kalužko Mikhailo Anatoliyovich, Makienka Vladimir Petrovich, Jaroschuk Vladimir Ivanovich. [[Applause]] Let us welcome our colleagues, wishing them good health and creative strength. [[Applause]] Information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary on November 19, 2009. Yesterday, three agenda issues were discussed, seven were adopted, one bill and one draft decree were rejected. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, according to article 25 of the Rules on Friday, we have 30 minutes to make inquiries. A request was received from the Ukrainian National Deputies: Boris PETROVA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, under the responsibility of the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Head of the State Roads Service of Ukraine, to ensure the execution of the Government's order to withdraw 50 million dollars from the Stabilisation Fund for the construction of bridges across the Dnipro River in Zaporozhye, and to provide reliable information on this matter. Valeria BEWZA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the situation in the village of the Brussels-Brussels District with the realization of citizens' right to privatize land. Victor KORJA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the loan of scholarships to students in a number of higher education institutions in Ukraine. Victor KORJA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on ignoring the Ministry of Health of Ukraine's response to the further use or transfer to other states of measles and rubella vaccine, which ended in the term of suitability and was smuggled and used in Ukraine, resulting in mass complications and tragic consequences. Victor TURMANOVA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the lack of funding for construction works on the Donetsk Metro and the non-payment of salaries to employees. Mr. DEMJANČUK to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine on the criminalization of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, Mr. Mikli Onishuk for violating Ukrainian laws on the status of the Ukrainian National Deputy, on information and crime, as provided for in article 351 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code. Vladimir SIVKOVIĆA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for not allowing the closure of the Denyev Regional Hospital of the Tetyiv Region of Kiev. Gennady ZADIRKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on failure to implement the decisions of the Minister of Transport and Liaison of Ukraine, Joseph of Winsky, aimed at rebuilding the railway station of Mikolayeva. Dmitry KOLESNIKOVA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on tax compensation for the added value of the company "Crivorizka Manufacturing Entrepreneurship" of the Ukrainian Blind Society. [[VAT]] Mr. Eduard PRUTNIK to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, acting as Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Head of the State Treasury of Ukraine, on the difficult situation with regard to the implementation of the budget in the town of Nizhin Chernigiv region in connection with the introduction of changes in the budgetary process, in accordance with the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers decision of September 3, 2009. Leonida LITWINOVA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to ensure that coal companies are owed debt to the Pension and other funds. Edouard PRUTNIK to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regarding the request of a member of the Czernigów District Council of Natalia Kucherovska for the implementation of the budget of Nizhin and the need for an additional grant from the State budget of 13 million dollars to prevent debt from being paid to budget workers and full financing of protected urban budget articles for the purchase of medicines and food products, for the payment of energy supplies and for the utility of budget facilities in the city of Nizhin. Ms Eugene KARJKOVA to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of Ukraine, for the construction of the high-voltage Adjalik-Usatovo line. Igora KALETNIKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, First Deputy Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of Ukraine on the use of measures to bring officials of the Herson District Attorney's Office to disciplinary responsibility and to prevent the raiding of the Ascanian State Enterprise. Mr. Mikhail Polanczych to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the commission of a crime by Mezon-K officials regarding the illegal conclusion and non-execution of a series of economic contracts relating to the organization and the provision of food for military personnel in the regions of Ukraine. Alexander SKIBYNESKI to the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine for the real state of supply verification for Ukratransgas and the quality of natural gas disorientation in Ukraine. Mr. Paul TOWCHANA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about the pipeline to the village of Grabov Staroviživ district of Volin region. Mr Paul SILCHANA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the issue of the one-to-one interpretative dictionary of the Ukrainian language. Paul SULKOVSKI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the extension by the Chief Administration of the Pension Fund of Ukraine in the Cherkas region of the assignment of a pension under the extended category of "tractor-machine" to citizens of the village of Vesely Kut of the district of Cherkaske District of Evaluation, Black and Novak. Petra PISTARCHUCA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of land for the construction of the Drogobit anti-tuberculosis dispenser on the territory of the Bologna Rural Council of the Lviv Region. Roman ZABZALJECK to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the failure to carry out the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the failure to respond by the Mikolai government to the parliamentary appeal regarding illegal actions by private entrepreneur Alexia Szerbina during the exclusion of the inhabitants of Smt. Arbusine from gas supply and on the inaction of officials in the Arbusinian region of Mikolaiiv. Roman ZABZALJECK to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the failure to carry out the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the failure to respond to the MP's delegation's request for possible illegal actions by the Director of the Municipal Enterprise, Mikolai International Airport. Anatoly MATVIENKA to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the verification of violations of legislation regarding the use of land for the health purpose of the State Institute "Specialized Sanatorium "DOLOSI". Mr. Mikoli Komara and Mr. Michael Èčetov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the improvement of the formula for the allocation of inter-budgetary transfers between the State budget and local budgets. Group of People's Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the reasons for the increase in tariffs on utility services in Kiev and the non-earmarked use of money of 125 million dollars for the purchase of tomatoes, brooches, seeds, apples for foreign trade and compensation of 25 million dollars by the management of Open Shareholders Association AK Kyivvodokal and the owners of the Private Shareholder Company KyivenergoHolding. [[MEN, PAVOVSKI, KULIKOVA]] Mikoli Komara and Mikhail CHETOVA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the allocation of an additional grant to the Montenegrin area for local budgets to level financial security. Vasila PETOVKI to the Minister of Economy of Ukraine for information on the issuance of permits for the purchase or execution of work, goods from one contractor in three quarters of 2009. Jury CARMAZINA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Acting Head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine, Head of the National Expert Commission on the Protection of Social Morality, Minister of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of Ukraine on the verification of gross violations of legislation in part of the production, sale and distribution of pornography, with the participation of the head of the state-owned enterprise VAT Bilšovick, the unlawful election of the Director and Deputy Director of the Enterprise, the violation of the rules of the Ukrainian Code of Master in the conduct of economic activity, which may lead to bankruptcy of the domestic manufacturer of machine engineering, the ignorance of the constitutional rights of employees in the conduct of the Code of Conduct and the corresponding criminal procedure. Vassila HARA to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine for the provision of information on the illegal actions of individuals who are aimed at violating the activities of the Federation of Trade Unions of Ukraine. Jury TREUGUBOVA to Deputy Minister of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine Sergey Chebotar, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the State Customs Service of Ukraine, Head of the State Tax Administration of Ukraine, Head of the State Financial Monitoring Committee of Ukraine, First Deputy Head of the State Tax Administration of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of the Lviv Region, Head of the Board of Directors in the Lviv Region for the Investigation of the Responsibility of the Head of the District Administrative Court of Kiev, Oleg Bachuna, to Unlawful Business Activities in conjunction with the Offshore Company Star Technology Alliance Limited, registered in Hong Kong. VICTOR SINCHENKA to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the unlawful settlement of the property relations of the owners of the village of Mirovka of the Kagarlic region of Kyiv region. Vladimir ARYEVA to the head of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine on the possibility of delaying disciplinary misconduct in relation to the head of the Court of Appeal of the Mikolai district of John Hamik. Vladimir YAVORISKI to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine on the confirmation or correction of information on the availability of higher education as a candidate for the post of President of Ukraine, Viktor Yanukovich, as well as on the attainment of scientific degrees, in order to prevent a person from becoming head of state without a truly higher education. Eugene KARJKOVA to the National Bank of Ukraine on the termination of the State Protection Order by the penal firm Molnia. Catherine VASTUK to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, on the inappropriate response of the Secretary-General of the Ukrainian President, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, to the repeated appeal by the Ministry of Internal Affairs to the fraudulent investors of the Gorokhiv branch of the Golden Teres Society, which is in the Volinsk region, to contribute to the return of their financial contributions. MIKOLI TOMENKA to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the illegal sale at the auction of the Seivo Bookstore, located at Kiev, the Red Army Street, 6 and related attempts to evict the bookstore. OXANI BILOSIR to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Minister of Ukraine for Family, Youth and Sports, the Attorney-General of Ukraine on urgent measures to restore the rights of orphans — brother and sister Feseczko — who, contrary to the requirements of legislation, were separated from each other, as well as on the responsibility of those who grossly violated the rights of these children, allowed for service negligence and committed other acts that contained signs of criminal crime. Oleg TYCHENKA to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of Ukraine, on the return to the property of the land of many years of plantations to be found for the owners of the land parts of the collective agricultural enterprise "Trebukhivska" in the Brovar region of Kyiv. [[gardens]] [[pears]] Mr Oleg TYCHENKA to the Minister for Environmental Protection of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of Ukraine, Head of the Kyiv District Council on the verification of violations of the current legislation of Ukraine, as set out in the address of citizens of the Association of Gardening Associations of Zamija. Alexander ŠEPELEVA to the Ministry of Regional Development and Construction of Ukraine on the use of measures to complete the construction of bridges in Zaporozhye and the repair of the emergency dam of Dniproges. Aleksandra ŠEPELEVA to the Minister for Industrial Policy of Ukraine regarding the use of measures to support chemical industries in order to prevent mass layoffs. Paul SULKOVSKI to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Head of the State Commission for the Regulation of the Financial Services Markets of Ukraine, on compensation for the moral and material damage to the mothers of the dead children of the city of Uman Cherkas region during the road accident that took place on July 18, 2007, in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. SERGEANTS to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, U.S. Attorney General of Ukraine, for the investigation of beatings in the city of Hmelnicke Coworker Ali Abbasova and Igor Demyanov during their professional duties. The Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine, the head of the Ukrainian Pension Fund for the protection of the legitimate interests of the resident of the city of Kremenczuk Poltava, the participant of the fighting activities of Viacheslav Samoylov in the question of the need to enforce the decisions of the court on the collection and payment of the unpaid pension for the period from 1 January 2005 to 1 July 2006 of 150 percent of the minimum age pension. Jury KRUKA under the responsibility of the Finance Minister of Ukraine to ensure the proper functioning of the local self - government bodies of the village of Cairo in the Odessa district. Anatolia MATVIENKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the examination of the facts of the abuse of office in the Chortkow City Council of the Ternopil region. Andrija SKILLY to the Attorney General of Ukraine about the illegal activity of the user of basement buildings on the street of General Chuprinka in Lviv, an enterprise called Budevristil, which leads to the destruction of an object of historical heritage. Alexia KOSTUSEVA and Hanna HERMAN to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Odessa City Head on the efforts of the Odessa City Authority to stop the activities of the opposition media in Odessa during the election of the President of Ukraine and to take action that impedes the legitimate activities of journalists and destroys freedom of speech in Odessa. Valery BEVZA to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the improper investigation by officials of the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Poltava area of the criminal case of the acquisition by the Lubno credit association of investors' funds. Vassil Hara to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the inaction of the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine on numerous appeals by the Federation of Ukrainian Trade Unions concerning the forgery of documents, falsification and gross violation of current legislation by individuals who attempt to violate the activities of trade unions. To the Attorney General of Ukraine, Vladimir YAVORIYSKE for active anti - State and criminal activities of organizations in the territory of Odessa for the humiliation of authority and local self - rule. Vladislav KASJOVA to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the conduct of a road accident test by Judge Perecin District Court of Zacarpathia, Mikola Seschenia, on 11 November 2007, in the city of Uzhgorod, which resulted in the death of a citizen named Martha Galuluk. Vladimir PILIPEN to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the examination of the circumstances of the systematic deliberate failure of direct duties by legal practitioners of the Lviv City Council and, personally, the head of this administration, Helena Pionkevitch, resulting in significant losses to the local budget. Gennady ZADIRKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the non-destruction of garden and park art parks in the city of Mikolayev, the local significance of "Park Victory" and the cutting down of several hundred long-standing trees. GREGORY TO THE U.S. Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the delay in the prosecution by the Attorney General of Ukraine with the completion of the trial and the criminalization of the organizers and contracting authorities of the kidnapping and murder of journalist George Gongadze. GREGORY to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of the legality of obtaining Ukrainian citizenship and educational documents by the Head of State for Environmental Protection in the Kyiv region of Alexander Chabanov. John STATION to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the illegal destruction of the forests of Buchik State forest management around the village of Bariš Buchik district of Ternopil. Igor KALETNIKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for ensuring that the facts of abuse of power and overstepping of official powers and for attracting the Minister of Justice of Ukraine Mikola Onichuk to criminal responsibility in connection with the presence in his actions of the signs of crimes foreseen in the century. 364,365 Criminal Code of Ukraine. Mr. Mikoli KRAVČENKA to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the illegal actions of the head and member of the board of the Sadivnik-2 Garden Society of Kuybishev district of Donetsk in relation to the second Secretary of the Donetsk City Committee of the Ukrainian Company Vasil Gnatuk. MIKOLI KULČINSKI, U.S. Attorney - General of Ukraine, for the verification of the legality of the activities of officials of the local government of the town of Stahanova in the field of land relations, and for the justification of the expenditure of the city’s budget. Mr. Mikoli Sherschun to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the purpose of verifying the relevance of the decisions of the Irsav district court of Zakarpatsk district on 18 February 2009 regarding the invalidity of State acts on land ownership. Ms. Alexander DONIA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for bringing disciplinary responsibility for ignoring the parliamentary appeals made by the prosecutor of Kiev, Eugene Blazhivsky. Aleksandra KUZMUKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on deliberate misconduct in the investigation of the death of a person by the prosecutor and investigator of the Chuguyiv International Prosecutor’s Office. Ms. KRUSENKA to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the investigation of the illegal activities of officials of the Federation of Professionals of the Volin Region and the use of forged documents. SERGEANT GORDIENKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the need for a thorough examination of the damage caused by the firearms of the villagers of the village of Demenynovka in the region of Poltava, the unlawful actions of the head of Sulina de Dribinspection and his subordinates in relation to the deputy of the Seminian District Council of Vladimir Trzenka, the inflicting of bodily harm on him of medium severity, the superficial approach of the law enforcement authorities of Poltavska, the Cherkas region to investigate systematic violations of the current legislation by the director of the marked inspection and to the responsibility of those responsible. Jury KRUKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the use of prosecutorial measures to protect the interests of Ukrainian citizens. LITHUANIA’S Jury to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of abuses by officials of local authorities of the local government of the town of Stahanova Luhansk district in the area of land relations and the use of local budget funds. Jaroslav KENDZYOR to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the situation surrounding the Open Association of Lvivelektromash and the raiders' actions against him. Vladimir PILIPENKA and Helen ŠUSTIK to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of violations of the constitutional rights and freedoms of residents of the village of Gribovich and Malekhs of the Jovkov district of Lviv region and on the personal involvement of Lviv city chief Andrija Sadov. Vladimir RIBAK and Andrija KLEJEVA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the use of appropriate measures of procuratorial response to the renewal of the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens, MPs of the Baranian Rural Council of the Zakarpatsk Region, and the cessation of illegal acts by citizen Paul Chuchko. Groups of National Deputies to the Attorney General of Ukraine on violations by Ukrainian security officials of the constitutional rights of citizens in Kharkiv. [[DENMARK, HOLY MAN, AND OTHERS.]] Jury KARMAZINA to the prosecutor of Kiev City, Kiev City Head for the examination of the grave violation of the constitutional rights of the citizens of Kiev, members of the public organization Kyiv City Association of Automobiles, by the management of an organization expressed in the illegal, way of fraud and the use of official powers, the possession and alienation of property of the organization by its leaders, the officials of the Society with limited responsibility of PrioritityBuilding Services and other persons, the use of measures to restore the constitutional rights of citizens and the involvement of those responsible. Valery BARANOVA to the procurator of the Zaporozhye district for the invocation of the responsibility of officials of the executive committee of the Berdian City Council for violating their budgetary legislation in the execution of the strengthening of the Berdian Hair. Alexia PLOTNIKOVA to the city head of Kiev regarding the dissatisfaction of the reply to the MP’s request for replacement of elevators in House 102 on Red Army Street in Kiev. Petra PISTARCHUKA to the prosecutor of the Lviv district for the purpose of ensuring that the facts of the looting in the historic part of the city of Lviv are verified. Please, the microphone of the people's deputy Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u2	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, I would like to remind you, I may have just forgotten, on the Conciliation Council I made a proposal and this is my parliamentary right, as dissatisfied with many answers, I have the right to a five-minute speech and we have actually made this decision on the Conciliation Board. Please give me that opportunity.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u3	Dear Vladimir Alexanderovich, I have not forgotten anything, this is the next question I have right in front of my eyes. I was actually going to announce it to the question of the answer, an examination of the answer to the MP's request by the national deputy of Yavorovsky Vladimir Aleksandrovitch. Please, you have the right to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u4	Dear voters! Dear fellow national MPs! I'd like to refocus your attention on the fact that, let's say, by about the mid-1990s, every deputy letter, every parliamentary request, response to it was appropriate, operational and decided essentially. There is an increasing trend that the government, in fact, formally responds to all our letters, to all parliamentary requests. Very often by sending out our electorate, whose rights we are trying to defend, they send him through this vicious circle from which there is virtually no way out. The other one. I have already said from this rostrum that there is no Ukrainian language in the Ukrainian courts today, neither Russian nor merciless, nor even “female”. There's only one language of our Ukrainian courts, which is the sixth envelope. I would like to emphasize once again, a sixth of the bills. And I was giving you the killer fact that in Kirovograd, in fact, almost two hundred families of unhappy people are being thrown out of the dormitory, actually, by falsifying the decision to privatize the dormitories. Let me remind you, many people know that during the privatization of large industrial clusters, privatization documents were not included. Counterfeit documents and several courts, and the local court, then the Dnipropetrov Court of Appeal are absolutely against the law. I went up to this rostrum about the question. Look at this volume: it's a letter, it's just a letter from Deputy Vladimir Yavorowski and a member of the district council of Anatoly the Transporter, who was the deputy of the city's head. The elections took place in the city of Kirovograd and in order to do so. Each head has the right, of course, to change his intercessors, but only according to legislation. So these nominations are to be put to the session, and the session is to vote for them. Imagine the situation that Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin takes and liberates, for example, Lavrinovich, without asking us, frees him from office or the same Tomenka. That was exactly the situation in Kirovograd. 150 court hearings, I emphasize 150 court hearings. Imagine how much government money was spent, how much nerve was burned to restore this man to Kuzakov, the city’s head, to restore him to office. And you think you've done it again? To this day. That's why I'm saying once again, winning even a court in Ukraine is 0.01. Most importantly, the executive service will say, and the executive service will not respond at all. That's why I'm talking about it again, and, Alexandre Volodymyrovich, I want my request to speak to the Attorney General's Office again, do all these things, bring these things to the Executive Service of the Ministry of Justice, bring all these things to an end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u5	Thank you, Vladimir Aleksandrovitch, please sit down. Dear colleagues, we've been exchanging so much since the procedure, and we're now on the subject that we've been looking at for a long time yesterday. Please write down the procedure for considering the conclusions of the Budget Committee on the 2010 State Budget Project. Mopsik Volodymir Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u6	Vladimir Mopsik, MP “For Ukraine!” Please pass the word to your colleague Arjevetin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u7	Stanislav Arjewitin, group “For Ukraine! ” Please tell me once again, we're going to approve on each of these points in this little table or we're going to go on the big volumes that we have right over here. Can you comment clearly on how we're going to move?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u8	Very clearly the fourth time, yesterday he did it three times, I repeat today. In line with a decision adopted yesterday by the Ukrainian National Deputies. No Ukrainian national deputy insisted on considering and voting proposals that were not recommended by the budget committee. Thus, in accordance with the Code of Budgets and the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we are going to consider all the proposals that the Committee on Budget Affairs recommends to the Supreme Council for approval. Understand? Should the fifth time be repeated? I see. Thank you. Bondarenko Volodymir Dmitrovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u9	Hand over the leather jacket, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u10	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! Our faction asks you, given the political importance and also the fact that the electoral process has already begun, and the decision of the Constitutional Court needs to be implemented immediately, you know that a working group has been working day and night to form all proposals for the President's Election Act, and the fact that yesterday was a precedent when we broke this budget issue by voting for judges, we would like you to be in ad hoc mode asking this question, and we have now moved to consider the President's Election Act as a first priority for today. And then we're going to go over the budget. If necessary, we will vote even by the end of the day to consider the budget in plenary mode. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u11	Dear Anatoly Andriyovich, I can't do this because the will of the Supreme Council of Ukraine was to form a timetable. We started the schedule. Work on the question, we're not going to interrupt it. This is the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Chechkom Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u12	Dear Alexander Vladimirović! Dear colleagues! The most terrible is uncertainty and particularly uncertainty in the budgetary process, as uncertainty in the budgetary process is stifling, prolonging the crisis and the economy, and the country as a whole, and ultimately leading to impoverishment. Therefore, today we must put an end to this uncertainty, go as agreed yesterday, to the articles, and determine whether we are lighting green light on the road to this zero budget. The draft budget for the following year, or we are returning the bill to the Cabinet of Ministers to make it radically from scratch, because it cannot be turned into a plane and a plane is needed to allow our economy to take off. And put it at that point, and make it clear that the country will be able to adopt the budget by the new year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u13	National MP Gordienko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u14	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. Dear colleagues and respected citizens of Ukraine! We are in the most ridiculous situation we can imagine today. The greatest threat to Ukraine’s national security and defence today is disregard for the Constitution and laws of Ukraine. And when we look at this budget, we see this especially vividly. Where in a world where there is a country where the budget is based on a nonexistent legislative basis? And we can see that this is what's in the 2010 budget. So let's get this nonsense to a higher level, let's go through all the amendments -- and of course, let's get this budget back to the Cabinet of Ministers to bring it in a new way.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u15	Welder Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u16	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! It is the Rules that provide for the possibility to interrupt the consideration of the issue in the adhoc regime if there is such a decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The testimony to this fact is just yesterday, the plenary meeting yesterday, when we interrupted the consideration of the State Budget and considered the question of the election and release of judges. Therefore, our faction supports the proposal made by our colleague Kozemykin that we should now stop the matter, since there is a very important question that we need to resolve, let us agree. And this is about making changes to electoral legislation. I think we can do this very quickly, and then we can go back to the question of the state budget. I would ask you to put such a procedural question to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u17	This question is not procedural. This is a matter settled by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And we interrupted the consideration of issues and others exclusively on one issue: the appointment and release of judges during the entire function of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u18	Give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u19	“Word” – and we are done, we have made statements on the procedure. I'm here.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u20	There's an offer: vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u21	Member of the Third Party, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] There is no National Deputy Tretjak in the Hall. Dear colleagues, a statement came from two factions signed by authorized representatives of Cosemiakin and Trelyakow. As I understand it, the people's deputy of Trelyakow is not in the session room. [[B in m in s a l in]] How did he sign the application? - a question. [[B in m in s a l in]] We are continuing our consideration of the findings of the Ukrainian Committee of Budget to the Ukrainian State Budget for 2010. [[B in m in s a l in]] Another statement is proposed here, but once again the signatures of the deputies of Cosemiakin and Trelyakow. I'm sorry, but the third-party MP who's not here can't sign the application. [[B in m in s a l in]] We turn to the consideration of the proposals of the Ukrainian Committee of Budgets for its conclusions to the Ukrainian State Budget for 2010. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yours, your unwillingness to continue to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u22	does not mean that you can block the consideration of the budgetary process.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u23	Because a person who is present is supposed to sign. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please be seated in the workplace. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the national deputy of Trelyakow did not register this morning even in writing and absent from the session room. It's for information, to understand how they're going to initiate actions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. A statement has now been made to the presiding officer at the plenary meeting at the signing of the authorised representatives of Cosemékin and Knazević of the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko and the "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" bloc in the Supreme Council of the Sixth Call in accordance with part two, third and fourth of article 29 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in connection with a gross violation of the opinion of the honourable Lord, the chairman of the Rules, and we request that the discussion and vote be held on the issue of the removal of Ms. Lavrinovich Aleksandra Volodyrimirovich from the chairmanship of the plenary session for a term of two days. In this regard, I call for consideration of the removal of the chairman from the plenary session of Lavrinovich Alexander Volodymyrovich for consideration. And I ask Mikola Volodymyrovich to preside over this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u24	Dear colleagues! I put the question to the vote: the proposal of two factions, the Yulia Timoshenko Block and our Ukraine-National Self-Defense, to remove the meeting of the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Lavrinovich Alexander Volodymyrovich for two days. Please vote. [[10:43:20]] - 180, versus - 5, held - 0. Please use fractions: Region Party – 0, "Club of July Timoshenko" – 146, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" – 33, Communists – 0, "Club of Lithuania" – 0, non-fractional – 1. I understand that.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u25	Dear colleagues! Mikola Volodymyrovich, thank you. We're continuing the discussion. We continue to work according to the timetable of the issue as discussed by the deputy head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I apologize. [[B in m in s a l in]] Here are the issues: the conclusions of the Budget Committee for the 2010 State Budget Project. Mikola Volodymyrovich. I invite the head of the People's Deputy's Committee to the rostrum. Please, Mikola Ivanovich. Dear colleagues! Conclusions of the Budget Committee to chapter one: in part four, article 1, replace the word “volume” with the word “volume”. This was proposal number 14, supported by the Budget Committee. This proposal is based on a vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:45:11]] For-47 The offer is not supported. To chapter two, “The Revenues of the State Budget of Ukraine”. Offer number 15. Make Changes to Article 2. In paragraph 2, the words and figures “article 47” should be replaced by the words and figures “article 47 of this law”. The proposal is proposed for consideration by the Budget Committee. I'll bet you a vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:45:53]] For-40 The offer is not supported. Next, number 16, which is recommended by the committee. In paragraph 8, the word “count” is replaced by the word “counted”. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. [[10:46:24]] For-147 The offer is not supported. Next offer. In paragraph 13, the word “legislature” should be replaced by the word “law”. Proposal No. 18 puts the vote to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:46:50]] For-86 Not supported. Offer number 19. In paragraph 14, the word “administrative” shall be deleted, shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:47:17]] For-63 The offer is not supported. Offer number 20. Paragraph 27 should be supplemented by the words “outside the place of the customs authorities or outside the working time established for the customs authorities”. Please be sure about this proposal. [[10:47:47:47]] For-69 The decision is not taken. Proposal number 22. In paragraph 41, the words “the city of Kiev” should be replaced by the words “the budget of the city of Kiev”. I'd like to make up my mind. [[10:48:14]] For-58 The offer is not supported. Offer number 30. In article 6, paragraph 8, replace the words “increasing of funds” with the words “costs”. The proposal is for a vote. [[10:48:42]] For-95 The offer is not supported. Offer number 32. In paragraph 20. Oh, we voted, I beg your pardon. Offer 34. In paragraph 21, the word “coming” should be replaced by the word “coming”. I'd like to make up my mind. [[10:49:14]] For-75 Not supported. Offer 38. Paragraph 39 should read as follows: “The collection for pollution of the environment, including the decommissioned tax liabilities of this congregation for the formation of radioactive wastes, including the already accumulated and temporary storage of radioactive waste by their manufacturers.” A proposal is put to the vote. [[10:49:53]] For-81 The decision is not taken. Offer number 42. In paragraph 46, the words “and, if this is not provided for by the legislative acts of Ukraine, by the acts of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine” are deleted. A proposal is put to the vote. [[10:50:23]] For-58 Offer not supported. Proposal 43. To clarify the wording of paragraphs 47, 48 in order to specify the relevant parts of the tax on added value and income tax for enterprises in the state budget special fund. A vote is taken on proposal 43. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:50:57]] Z-71 Not supported. Offer number 47. Part three of article 9 is to be deleted as reiterating the position of article 2, paragraph 4, and part one, paragraph 18, of article 47. Puts the vote to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:51:25]] For-67 Offer not supported. 51 offers. In part three of article 10, the words “dimension” and “accounted for under law” should be replaced by the words “volume” and “calculated under this law”. Puts the vote to the vote. [[10:51:56]] For-53 Offer not supported. Proposal 53. In the first part of article 11, the words “the size of the government debt of Ukraine” are replaced by the words “the amount of government debt”. Proposal 53 is put to the vote. [[10:52:25]] For-56 Not supported. Offer 54. The first sentence of article 12 reads: “National enterprises, including households, other than banks, whose statutory fund is owned by 50 per cent or more of the shares, stakes, engage in internal long-term and external lending, provide guarantees or are the guarantors of such commitments in agreement with the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, engage in internal short-term lending, provide guarantees or are the guarantors of such commitments in agreement with the relevant central executive authorities and administrations that they belong to.” [[more than one year]] [[up to one year]] Offer 54 is a vote. [[10:53:26]] For-50 Not supported. Proposal 61. In article 16, the words “the government debt of Ukraine” and “the size of the government debt of Ukraine” should be replaced by “the government debt” and “the amount of government debt”. Please be sure about this proposal. [[10:53:54]] For-49 The proposal is not supported. Sixty-third offer. Article 17 reads as follows: The Minister of Finance has the right, within the current budget period, to place the temporary free funds of the single treasury account and the monetary accounts of the State budget on deposits or through the acquisition of state securities with further reimbursement of such funds by the end of the current budget period. A vote is taken on proposal 63. [[10:54:38]] For-34 Offer not supported. 67 offers. Article 23 reads as follows: “Partial change to part two of the twenty-first Act on Privatisation of State Property of Ukraine” allows buyers of foreign investors in the process of privatising state property to pay the value of such property in a freely converted foreign currency in order and in cases determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine together with the National Bank of Ukraine.” Puts the vote to the vote. [[10:55:21]] For-28 Not supported. Proposal 91. The proposal to make changes to article 25. Pending agreement with the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the budget allocation of budgetary allocations according to parts two and three of this article, it is prohibited to modify the budget of the state budget and the cost of the public budget and the expenditure of the state budget associated with such redistribution. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:56:09]] For-28 Offer not supported. Proposal 92. In part four, replace “the Act on the State Budget of Ukraine” with “this law”. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:56:34]] For-22. Not supported. 93 offers. In part fourteen, replace the word “spent sanctions” with the words “spent penalties”. Puts the vote to the vote. [[10:56:58]] For-21 Not supported. Offer number 99. In article 30, after the digits “411040” and “5001060”, add the digits “0501190” and “5101030” respectively. A proposal is put to the vote. [[10:57:29]] For-23 Not supported. Offer number 104. Make changes to article 32. Paragraph 22 reads: “Development of a mineral raw material base, including 60 million bracelets for drilling artesian drills”. Let me be clear, offer number 104. [[10:58:05]] For-27 Offer not supported. Offer number 110. In paragraph 54, the word “measures” should be replaced by the words “implementation of European assistance programmes involving actions”. I'd like to make up my mind. [[10:58:31]] For-28 Not supported. Offer number 204. Change to Article 33: “foresee the numbering of the main parts in order to comply with the requirements of the legislative technique”. I'd like to make up my mind. [[10:58:59]] For-23 Not supported. Proposal number 207. In paragraphs 12 and 16, the words “this article” should be replaced by the words “part of the first article”. [[10:59:27]] For the 17th. Not supported. Offer 209. In part two, select the separate payment points included in the local taxes and congregations in the legislative regulation of the matter and clarify paragraph 1 accordingly. Puts the vote to the vote. [[10:59:55]] For 20 Offer not supported. 210th offer. In paragraph 22, the words “which are managed by the executive bodies of the relevant local councils” should be deleted. Puts the vote to the vote. [[11:00:21]] For-22. Offer not supported. Offer 211. Paragraph 35 should be supplemented by the words and figures in brackets “except the incomes defined in Article 47 of this Law”. Puts the vote to the vote. [[11:00:47]] For the 15th. Offer not supported. 214th offer. Paragraph 36 should be supplemented by the words and figures in brackets “except for the subsidies defined in Article 47 of this Act”. Puts the vote to the vote. [[11:01:13]] For-22. Not supported. Proposal 215. In article 34, the words “legal addresses of business entities” should be replaced by the words “place of business subjects”. Puts the vote to the vote. [[11:01:38]] For -14 Not supported. Proposal 218. In paragraph 3 of Part Four, the word “it’s quantity” should be replaced by the words “this part of the additional grant mentioned”. Puts the vote to the vote. [[11:02:05]] For the 17th. Not supported. Proposal 219: Exclusion part five. Puts the vote to the vote. [[11:02:29]] For the 18th. Not supported. Proposal 220: To supplement the rule of entitlement of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to determine the arrangements for the allocation of an additional grant to ensure the financial sustainability of the budgets of villages, villages, cities of regional importance by means of a cost-sharing mechanism. Puts the vote to the vote. [[11:03:03:03]] For-19 Not supported. Proposals Nos. 300 and 301: Article 39 should read as follows: “If expenditure is to be incurred from the relevant local budget under the Ukrainian Budget Code and this law from another budget, such action shall be classified as a purposeless use of budgetary resources, in addition to expenditure aimed at providing materially and technically for educational, cultural, health and internal affairs institutions. Puts the vote to the vote. [[11:03:45]] For-13. Not supported. Proposal 302: In the second part of the first paragraph, replace “Sevastopol” with “Sevastopol’s budget”. Puts the vote to the vote. [[11:04:10]] For the 15th. Not supported. 303 proposal: in part three, replace “organs” with “organs”. Puts the vote to the vote. [[11:04:35]] For-13. Not supported. Offer 309. Article 44 exclude as such the five final clauses in paragraph 5 of the fifth paragraph. Puts the vote to the vote. [[11:05:00]] For-12. Not supported. Proposal 316. In the third part of article 46, paragraph 3, replace the words “natural expression” with the words “natural form”. Puts the vote to the vote. [[11:05:28]] For -8 Not supported. Proposal 322. Paragraph 4 of Part One to be completed by the words “and included in the respective budgets of local self-government”. Puts the vote to the vote. [[11:05:54]] For the 17th. Not supported. Proposal 326. In part four of the first part, the word “counts” should be replaced by the words “counting down. ” I'd like to make a statement. [[11:06:21]] For -14 Not supported. 330 offers. Paragraph 18 of Part One, Part Two and Part Three should be moved to Part One of this Article. Puts the vote to the vote. [[11:06:47]] For-16 Not supported. Offer 335. Part three of article 48, after the words “on the basis of a reasoned submission by the Central Electoral Commission”, should be supplemented by the words “under agreement with the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on budgetary matters”. Puts the vote to the vote. [[11:07:15.]] For -14 Not supported. Proposal 337. Article 51 exclude. Puts the vote to the vote. [[11:07:37]] For-12. Not supported. Offer 338. In article 52, the words “the sale of municipal property is used” are replaced by the words “the cost of the general fund and the local budget is transferred”. Puts the vote to the vote. [[11:08:07]] For -14 Not supported. 355 proposals, make changes to article 57, part one to add the words "with the next index according to the Ukrainian People's Income Index Act", part two to delete. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:08:38]] For-12. Not supported. 372 offers. In the second sentence of article 66, the words “and the members of their families” should be replaced by the words “retireees from the ranks of the military and the members of the military and the members of the armed forces and the members of their families”. Puts the vote to the vote. [[11:09:07]] For -8 Not supported. Offer 374. In article 68, the words “On the State Budget of Ukraine” should be replaced by “this law”. Puts the vote to the vote. [[11:09:31]] For -8 Not supported. Proposal number 385, 430 and 432. Amend article 77 in part one of the first paragraph after the words “agribusiness establishment”, to add the words “including lending to farms, replenishing the statutory NAC “Ukragroling” fund for the purchase of agricultural equipment under financial lysis”. Puts the vote to the vote. [[11:10:11]] For the 10th. Not supported. Offer 393. Partly covering the cost and cost of finished coal production, the cost of financing investment projects for the construction of coal and peat mining, the project is related to improving mine safety, including the way in which the UTAS system is implemented, as well as mine disposal projects. A vote is taken on proposal 393. [[11:10:53]] For-13. Not supported. Offer 396. Paragraph 8 reads as follows: “Socio-economic development of cities, villages and villages with priority spending on the introduction of previously launched buildings. One billion dollars, including the implementation of the state-wide Drinking Water programme. Puts the vote to the vote. [[11:11:29]] For-16 Not supported. Offer number 436. Add part two to the words “according to agreement with the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on budgetary matters”. Puts the vote to the vote. [[11:11:53]] For-24 Not supported. 438 offers. In part three of paragraph three, the words “parts of shares, portions of rations, ” replace the words “state stakes, ” the words “that are found ” with the exception. Puts the vote to the vote. [[11:12:21]] For-23 Not supported. Proposal 439. Make changes to article 78. In the first part, after the words “the government bonds of Ukraine”, add the words and figures “not more than 50 billion dollars”. Puts the vote to the vote. [[11:12:51]] For 20 Not supported. Offer 440. The words “inventions and funds received” and “the extent of the government debt of Ukraine” should be replaced by “other revenue” and “the amount of government debt”. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:13:20]] For-23 Not supported. Second part of the 440 offer. In part two, replace the word “overcoming” and the figure “number 3” with the words “other arrivals” and the words “number 3 and number 4”. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:13:50]] For the 18th. Not supported. Offer 443. In the part of the first article 80, the words and figures of “the country’s sovereign debt is defined by article 10” are replaced by the words and figures “border deficits of the State budget and sovereign debt as defined in Articles 1 and 10 respectively”. Puts the vote to the vote. [[11:14:26]] For 20 Offer not supported. Proposal No. 457 to the “Ending Positions” section. Paragraph 5 should be supplemented by paragraph 6: “The budget of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the district and district budgets, the cities, the cities of Kiev and Sevastopol, the cities of the Republic, the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the area budgets, the other budgets of local self-government for which inter-budgetary transfers are determined in this law shall be approved by a decision of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the relevant local council, no later than two weeks from the date of official publication of this law.” Puts the vote to the vote. [[11:15:23]] For 20 Not supported. Offer number 465. In paragraph 3 of paragraph 11, the digits “16-18” should be replaced by the words “twenty-first, twenty-second and twenty-third”. Puts the vote to the vote. [[11:15:50.]] For-19 Not supported. Offer number 469. In paragraph 15, paragraph 1, the words and figures “part two of article 100 ” should be replaced by the words and figures“ in part nine of article 98, part two of article 100, part one of article 101. ” [[part of the projections in the corresponding grants budgets, the equalisation of the rural budget, the villages, the cities of regional importance and their integration, as well as the funds transferred from these budgets]] Puts the vote to the vote. [[11:16:36]] For the 15th. Not supported. Proposals number two and number 126 where the Cabinet of Ministers is assigned. [[B in m in s a l in]] “When working on the draft State Budget Act for Ukraine for 2010, take into account the current provisions of the Ukrainian Budget Code”. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:17:11]] For-13. Not supported. Offer number three. At the same time as the draft Law on Ukraine's State Budget 2010 is being submitted, a bill should be submitted to amend some of Ukraine's tax laws. I'd like to make a statement. [[From the hall. Alexander Volodymyrovich, we can discuss proposals, why can't we? Well, it's serious, read that proposal. We've been talking about this for six months.]] [[11:17:40]] For-7.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u26	Offer not supported. Offer number one. Along with the National Bank of Ukraine, align the forecast of the exchange rate of the dollar for 2010 to take into account the 2010 draft budget. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:18:10]] For -6 Offer not supported. Offer number five. As a result of the prices for imported natural gas set for the following year, the main macroeconomic and social indicators for Ukraine for 2010 and the budget for 2010 are clarified. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:18:42]] For the 10th. Not supported. Offer number six. Improve government regulation of basic food prices and other essential goods: medicines, services, housing and communications, and communication, by amending the relevant legislation. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:19:15]] For -6 Not supported. Proposal number 78 and number 8. Provide financial support for crisis measures aimed at supporting economic sectors. Puts the vote to the vote. [[11:19:44]] For the five of us. Offer not supported. Proposal number 40 and 115. Analyse the tax debt of state-owned enterprises that are strategically important to the economy and security of the state, 100 percent of the shares that belong to the State and make proposals for its repayment, including by covering the cost of technical restocking of such state-owned enterprises. Puts the vote to the vote. [[11:20:22]] For the 10th. Not supported. Proposal number 26. In addition, reconcile with the National Bank of Ukraine the amount of funds that are being invested in the State budget in 2010 from over-expenditures over costs incurred by the National Bank of Ukraine. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:20:53]] For-9 Not supported. Offer number 77. Deal with the issue of the repayment of part of the debt by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to the National Bank of Ukraine for loans received to finance the deficit of the State Budget of Ukraine in 1994-1996. Puts the vote to the vote. [[11:21:25]] For the five of us. Offer not supported. Proposal number 44, 45 and 46. In addition, consider the economic feasibility of applying the coefficients and rates of payment for the use of the nagrass. Puts the vote to the vote. [[11:21:53]] For -8 Offer not supported. Proposals 27, 28, 29. Improve the order of auctions for sale of special permits for the use of nadrama. Puts the vote to the vote. [[11:22:21]] For -8 Not supported. Offer number 29. Changes to the relevant decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regarding the procedure for granting permits for all types of use of oil-gasogaso-drugs for state-owned enterprises and state-owned enterprises in the statutory fund, which is 50 percent or more. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:22:53]] For the five of us. Not supported. Offers number 360, 370. Consider the calculation and justification of the payments of part of the net income or dividends of the company of the fuel and energy complex of the state budget and make appropriate proposals. Puts the vote to the vote. [[11:23:27]] For the 10th. Not supported. Proposals No. 23, 24, 25. Make proposals on the justification for the targeting of crude oil, natural gas, gas and gas condensation of its own production for the processing and implementation of petroleum products at its own gas stations, manufacturing and technological costs, and the production of compressed gas. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:24:06]] For-7. Not supported. Proposals 447, 449. Consider the relevance of the definition in article 86 of the Urals basic oil price bill in US dollars. Puts the vote to the vote. [[11:24:35]] For -14 Not supported. Offer 466. In order to settle the differences in part of the payment to the oil, natural gas, and gas condensate budget, Ukraine, prepare changes to the relevant laws. Puts the vote to the vote. [[11:25:05]] For-12. Not supported. Offer number 17 and 213. Proposals for the allocation of rent for oil, natural gas, and gas condensate produced in Ukraine between state and local enterprises. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:26:41]] For-7. Not supported. Proposal number 31. Consider excluding from the revenue of the Special Fund of the National Budget of the Assembly the mandatory state pension insurance paid under the law in cash-free transactions from foreign exchange purchases. Puts the vote to the vote. [[11:26:09]] Z-11. Not supported. Offer number 454. Consider the write-off of separate companies in the fuel-energy foam complex and fines imposed by the supervisory authorities for violating tax, customs and monetary legislation. Puts the vote to the vote. [[11:26:41]] For-7. Not supported. Offer 48. Consider the possibility of predicting in article 10 of the bill a marginal amount of government debt in bracelets and its equivalent in United States dollars if necessary. Puts the vote to the vote. [[11:27:11]] For-13. It doesn't work. Proposal number 55 and 56. To clarify the wording of article 13 of the bill by setting out the total amount of State guarantee in 2010, taking into account the guarantees of loans granted by international financial institutions or under conditions of co-financing with them and the cost of borrowing the State Road Service of Ukraine and the State Budget Special Fund. Puts the vote to the vote. [[11:27:57]] For -14 Not supported. Offer number 57 and 58. Together with the bill, provide information on the listing of enterprises and organizations planned to provide State guarantees in accordance with article 13 of the bill, which takes into account the need and increase such guarantees for the implementation of investment and innovation projects in enterprises of strategic importance to the State's security economy. Puts the vote to the vote. [[11:28:39]] For-7. Offer not supported. Offer number 60. Consider whether the State guarantee is appropriate for the commitment of the energy company Energoat to the credit for the design and construction of the energy grids number 3 and 4 of the Hmelnicka AES. Puts the vote to the vote. [[11:29:11]] For -6 Not supported. Offer number 64. Along with the draft law, provide information on the remaining credits. are involved by the State from foreign states, banks and international financial institutions to implement investment programmes, projects targeting creditors, the total amount of loans, loans and the extent of their involvement in 2010 in the budget cuts. Offer 64 is a vote. [[11:29:57]] For-12. Offer not supported. Proposal No. 66: To provide information on the realistic amount of revenue from the privatisation of state property in 2010 and the list of enterprises subject to privatisation next year. Puts the vote to the vote. [[11:30:29]] For-13. Proposals 310, 348, 353: Consider the size of the basic social standards based on the actual budget possibilities. A proposal is put to the vote. [[11:30:57]] Z-11. Not supported. Proposals Nos. 80 and 81: make proposals to ensure the proper level of pay for teaching and teaching staff, including those working in rural areas. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:31:27]] For the 15th. The proposal is not supported. Proposal No. 102: The direction of the use of the state budget special fund should be determined by article 32, paragraph 12, of the bill, to bring the issue of the State Administration of Maritime and River Transport into line with the requirements of the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers of March 5, 2009. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:32:05]] For the Offer not supported. Offer number 105. In accordance with article 32, paragraph 38, of the bill and the name of the budget program according to the code of the programme classification of expenditure and the lending of the state budget of 2601430 of the number three to the bill. Puts the vote to the vote. [[11:32:43]] For the five of us. The offer is not supported. Offer number 477. Prepare changes to legislation in part of the mechanism for the use of congregations for geological exploration and execution at the expense of the state budget. Puts the vote to the vote. [[11:33:11]] For the five of us. Offer not supported. Offer number 427. In the distribution of the costs allocated for construction, housing for military personnel, members of the military and the chief of staff, it is considered that the listed category of citizens is aimed at co-financing for housing part of their own resources; at least 50 percent of such costs are directed to housing for veterans who are in line for housing. Puts the vote to the vote. [[11:33:53]] For -8 An offer of eighty. “For” – 8, not supported. Proposal 84. In addition, 44 million dollars are spent on pension benefits for those who are subject to the law on the social protection of children of war. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:34:25]] For the 10th. The offer is not supported. Proposal 221 and 222. Develop a separate regulatory act on how transport companies should be compensated for losses from the transfer of citizens' pension categories within the budgetary allocations for a specified purpose or provide targeted assistance to such categories of citizens as this is done on solid fuel and compressed gas. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:35:06]] For-9 The proposal is not supported. Offer number 344. Provide for an extension of the time limit for the conclusion of contracts for the transfer of their own or delegated powers. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:35:33]] For-9 Not supported. Proposal number 340, 341 and 342. Implement a formalized mechanism for the transfer of funds for delegated appropriations based on expenditure taken into account in the determination of inter-budget transfers between the budgets of villages, cities and district budgets by setting criteria for the calculation of volumes, order, term and responsibility. [[village]] I'd like to make a statement. [[11:36:13]] Z-11. Not supported. Proposal number 116, 332, 125, 223 and 224. To provide for a subsidy from the State Budget to local budgets for the payment of debt with a difference in tariffs on heat, water and water services produced, transported and supplied to the population, which was due to the inadequacy of the actual cost of thermal energy, water supply to water-supply tariffs approved or accepted by the relevant authorities of the State or local authorities. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:37:08]] For-64 The offer is not supported. Offer number 118. Develop and approve a differentiated leveling factor that takes into account the region’s environmental damage level and on its basis determine additional financial resources for the most environmentally charged areas. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:37:42]] For -6 Offer not supported. Offer number 205, 320 and 458. When considering changes to the Ukrainian Budget Code, consider adding 15 percent of the person’s income tax to the budget for city budgets. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:38:17]] For -8 Offer not supported. Offer number 487. Consider the scope of expenditure in the health sector, areas, and cities that are kept in local hospitals through changes in the current formula. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:38:49]] For-16 Not supported. Offer number 225. Consider the possibility of costing compensation to families with children and the free nutrition of children affected by the Chernobyl disaster by the payment of monthly cash assistance due to restrictions on the consumption of local food and compensation for the benefits of food security for citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster as a subsidy from the national budget to local budgets. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:39:40]] For the 17th. Not supported. Proposal number 305, 306, 307 and 308. Improve the order of the local budgets for surplus income from the general fund by listing public taxes and assemblies, mandatory payments, taking into account the proposals made by the Ukrainian National Deputies. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:40:16]] For-9 The offer is not supported. Offer number 119, 121, number 12 and 124. Further work with local self-government authorities on the calculation of the income and expenditure of local budgets, taking into account their actual implementation in 2009 and the projections of socio-economic development for 2010. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:40:53]] For -6 Offer not supported. Proposals No. 226, 229, 270. Consider the possibility of allocating funds in the form of subsidies from the state budget to local budgets for the construction of subways and highways across the Dnipro River in Zaporozhye. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:41:27]] For the 18th. Offer not supported. And the final proposal recommended by the committee for consideration. When working on the bill, take into account the well - founded proposals made by the Ukrainian National Deputies and the deputy factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the allocation of investment funds at the expense of the development of the general fund of the State Budget and the costs of the Stabilisation Fund. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:42:10]] For-27 The offer is not supported. Thus, we have fulfilled all the requirements of the Code of Budget and the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we have no balance, we have no support for any of the proposals that came to the Committee of Budgets. In general, the draft conclusions of the budgetary committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine have been rejected. So I'm putting a bill on the Supreme Order now. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, our agenda is the 2010 budget. We have three draft rulings from the National Deputies: the People's Deputies of Paklesenko-Alexandrovska, the People's Deputies of Kirilenko-Lapin, the People's Deputies of Borisov-Lasco. The first time we register, we have a return order to draft the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2010. People's deputies are Pecklusenko and Alexandrovska. And Paul of Zebravsky, I apologize, is not written, has seen the signature, and has not known whose, and Gebravsky. Project Decisions. The Supreme Council of Ukraine rules. “Draft Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2010 submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, return the subject of the right of legislative initiative to work with the aim of bringing in compliance with the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine and the Budget Code of Ukraine, the Law of Ukraine of 20 October 2009 on the establishment of living minimum and minimum wage” and other laws of Ukraine. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on budgetary issues in a two-day period, from the date of taking effect of this Decision, to send the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine the general proposals of the Ukrainian National Deputies, Deputies and Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the draft Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2010 to be considered in the drafting of this bill. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, on a two-week deadline from the date of recruitment, has been acting by this decree to finalize the draft Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2010 and to submit a draft to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Regulation No 5000-P2 of 5.11.2009 shall apply to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[11:44:50]] For 241 Decision taken. [[Applause]] Question completed.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u27	The factions, please. Region Party – 171, "Clock of July Timoshenko" – 0, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" – 23, communists – 27, "Clock of Lithuania" – 19, non-fractional – 1. [[B in m in s a l in]] For reasons of vote, please sign in. [[B in m in s a l in]] National Deputy Kamchatny, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u28	Kamchatten, Timoshenko Street. Please give the floor to colleague Sas Sergio Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u29	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I wanted to draw the attention of the chairman at the meeting, Alexander Volodymyrovich Lavrinović, who, when considering the State Budget Bill for 2010, had seriously violated the procedure for considering the bill. In accordance with article 157 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, the Supreme Council can make the only decision to consider the bill. If the conclusions and proposals of the budget committee are not supported, the Supreme Council may send the bill for re-reading to the budget committee. There are no other options, according to the Code of Budgets and the Rules of the Supreme Council. So, Alexander Volodymyrovich, according to the Rules, I'm making a note.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u30	Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u31	I'd like to give it to Alexander Pecklesenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u32	Dear colleagues! Respectable voters! What really happened and happened? The Government and the BUT faction in Parliament are doing everything to ensure that the budget is not adopted, because the adoption of the budget provides for a mandatory reporting procedure for the Government on the current budget year. It is the unwillingness to report, the unwillingness to report on budget failures, social standards issues that the Government is doing, that they are launching both the budget process and the budget funding. I thank all the colleagues who supported our bill. I am sure that the Government does not have a way out except to get on the road to the law and prepare a budget or voluntarily resign. That's right! From the hall of Hurrah!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u33	Kirilenko Viacheslav Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u34	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “For Ukraine! ” Dear colleagues and honourable voters, yesterday we reported that the Group “For Ukraine!” had introduced its draft Decision “On budget deviation”, which had been introduced by the People’s Deputies Kirilenko and Liapina. That's why we haven't voted in favour of the Peckleshenko bill right now, because we have different arguments and different approaches to assessing this budget. But certainly, since our draft resolution has come up with a vote, we believe that Parliament has done the right thing today. And we hope that the Prime Minister himself and the whole government will now pay attention to the dramatic underfunding of defence, national security, Ukrainian language support and Ukrainian national memory programmes, energy conservation support programmes and other key things that are absolutely, sorry, swimming-like way in the government's budget project ignored. That's why we want a successful government and a faster introduction of a new budget project into this Parliamentary Hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u35	Kilincarov Spiridon Pavlovich. Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u36	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues! I think that those who accuse are making accusations right or wrong are completely wrong on their own. Because you and I would have done the wrong thing by looking at a document that was created on a non-existent legislative basis. So you and I have shown to the whole society that, in fact, there are people in this session hall who don't know the laws, who don't respect the laws and who do lawlessness. And I think that 241 people's deputies who voted in favour of the draft decree, whose authors are representatives of different political forces, have done absolutely right and logically. Because the budget was written, the budget that we sent today to the Cabinet of Ministers to write it properly, which does not exist in nature. So let's please stop speculation.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u37	Sergey Vladislavovich was involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u38	Please pass the word to Lashko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u39	Oleg Lasko, “Julia Timoshenko” Block. The results of a vote that was not supported by the 2010 budget show that two Victor Janukovic and Victor Yushchenko continue to act together against the government, against the country. It's a conspiracy to deprive the country of its budget! Because in the budget project, the forecast and salary increases, and pensions to pensioners, but for political reasons, with the aim of breaking the budget system, with the aim of discrediting the government, this document was not supported today in the hall. And it's very sad that the votes for the plot of these two Victors have been given by the faction that we honor, Vladimir Mikhailovich Lithuania. Because we worked on the committee. We've made these proposals to the Council. The country is waiting for this budget! There can't be a country without a budget! But the budget has become a political hostage! And the political forces that are here instead of taking care of the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u40	Grigorovich Lilia Stepanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u41	Lilia Grigorovich, MP “For Ukraine!” Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! I can't help but comment earlier. You know, in the city of the mouth and in Kiev, the uncle. Just before the faction, the whole faction of government ignored its own amendments, giving 18 to 15 votes. So is this a conspiracy by the faction against its own government or what? In view of this, I would like to say that the parliamentary group “For Ukraine!” has prepared an argumented draft decision in which we reasoned that it is not just a campaign of the budgetary process, it is primarily a post-Counterginian state, not a budget, because it is built on a non-integrated, unrealistic income section, unrealistic GDP, unrealistic inflation and therefore unrealistic expenditure. And in view of that, let's not play with the Ukrainian people who gave birth to the government, let them rework, refine and supply in a human way and with the corresponding amendments of the “For Ukraine” group.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u42	National MP, Gordien.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u43	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. Dear comrades, what I started out with is that in Ukraine, our greatest threat to national security is the neglect of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. And we've just seen how the government, spitting on the Constitution, spitting on Ukraine's laws itself, introduced Ukraine's state budget on a non-existent normative basis. They showed that the law was not written in this country. And thanks very much to the 241 people's MP who have common sense, and they sent the government and sent this budget to be processed and introduced on an existing legislative basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u44	For reasons of vote, the statements have been completed. With your permission, I will read out part four of article 157 of the Supreme Council Rules: “In the event that, in the case of an article vote, the budget figures become balanced, the Supreme Council sends the draft Law on Ukraine’s State Budget to the Committee for the next year, the subject of which is the matter of the budget for the preparation for the re-reading.” We “in case” did not succeed, nothing was balanced, because nothing was supported, and the first reading in this case we received a complete deviation of all the articles and in general also. So the only right constitutional decision that the Supreme Council could make, she approved it, for which I thank the National Deputies. Dear colleagues, a draft decree on the establishment of the borders of the city of Krasnoprekskopsk and Krasnoprekopsk district of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea is under review. [[Registration number 4801]] Reported the deputy head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, Sinkenko Viktor Mikolayovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u45	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! I think this question has been raised at such a time that our voices will break out in this room, but on Wednesday I reported to you the address of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea with concern for the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the borders of the city of Kraspopreksk. The issue was considered in 1992 and a decision was taken by the Red Cross Regional Council on the transfer of 1,500 acres [1.5 thousand ha] to the city of Kraspoprekopsk. All these decisions were approved by the district council, then the Crimean Council of Ministers of the U.S.R. In view of the adoption in 1996 of the Basic Law of our State, the Constitution of Ukraine, which provides: Article 85, article. 29) that the Supreme Council of Ukraine has jurisdiction over the liquidation or creation of new areas, the definition of urban areas and the naming-renamement, and the Red Cross City Council has also referred to the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, which, on behalf of us, has asked us to establish the borders of the city of Krasnoprekopsk. This issue has been drawn up according to current legislation, and this issue has been supported by two committees of the Supreme Council: agrarian politics, land relations, and the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government. No hundred have been transferred from rural councils bordering the city of Prekopsk. That is, this land has been in use by the Red Cross City Council for 17 years. It was simply the city council’s decision to legitimize its property as required by the Constitution. Please support the invitation of the community of the city of Krasnoprekopska and all deputies to vote in favour of this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u46	Is there a question for Victor Mikolaiovich? You don't? Have a seat, please. Do you have a vote or a question? Questions? No, there are no questions. Have a seat, please. Any questions? I'm sorry. Let's sign up for the question. continue our work until this issue is resolved. Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u47	Thank you. Victor Mikolaiovich! Jaroslav Suhi, Party of Regions, Zaporozhye Please tell us this addition to the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 9 July 2009 number 4801 has been added to the plan of the external border of the city of Krasnoprekskopsk of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, and here, if you see - well, on yours is the same on the stand - it is the boundary of the VAT “Criminal soda plant”, “Crimpetorremont”, “Brom”, “Krinovavtoservis” near the town of Prekopska and the North Crimean Canal. Please tell me, on a new plan, which we will approve, the outer border of the city of the Red Cross will enter into or outside the city of the land of these industrial enterprises? You understand why I'm asking this question, because that's what's going to depend on coming to the local budget. I mean, I'm talking about a land tax that's supposed to be paid by entrepreneurs. So I think the question is, are these industries going to be in their land plots in the territory of the city of Krasnoprekopsk? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u48	Dear colleague, it is clear that the Crimean soda plant, the VAT “Brom” and the VAT “Polyftor” are part of it. And that is, on the ground, the location of industry and motor transport. are located at an area of 460, 415 hectares, that is, they are part of the city of Krasnopekopsk and will mean. We're just confirming that the boundary of the city that was adopted back in the year 992.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u49	And the channel will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u50	Stone Valery Grigorovich,
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u51	Kamchatten, Timoshenko Street. Please pass the word to your colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u52	Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. You see, our distinguished voters, what urgent issues are being addressed by the Supreme Council? Instead of voting on the President's Elections Act, so that there are no forgeries in the elections, instead of looking at other urgent issues facing the country, we are looking at the expansion of the borders of the city, where we see the pattern and the lake, and the land, and so on and so forth. So our faction will not vote for this bill. Instead, we suggest that you, Alexander Volodymyrovich, turn to you, although it is difficult for you to make any requests, still ignore the rules of the Rules. The budget was discussed, and no amendments were made to the discussion, not taking into account repeated references in this regard. I mean, well, it's wrong, it's unprofessional, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u53	Finish up, please. Turn on the microphone to the People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u54	Thank you. And it seems to me that this way to demonstrate your engagement throughout the country, well, it doesn't look like a solid statesman like you. I therefore hope that you will continue to abide by the requirements of the Supreme Council Rules and respect the rights of the people's deputies, including the discussion of amendments and budget proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u55	Dear colleagues, I remind and inform the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the issue of returning to the consideration of the draft Order establishing the borders of the city of Krasnoprekopska and Krasnoprekopsk Region of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea is included in today's schedule of meetings by the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the suggestion of the People's Deputy Ljasko. [[Applause]] [[B in m in s a l in]] It's time for discussion. The question has been completed. Thank you, please. Please take a seat, Victor Mikolaiovich. A draft decree on the establishment of the borders of the city of Krasnoprekopsk and the region of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, registration number 4801, is put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:03:14]] For 219 The decision is not taken. It's being announced. By factions, please show: Region Party - 157, Timoshenko Yulia Block - 0, Our Ukraine - 16, Communists - 27, Litvina Block - 19. [[B in m in s a l in]] On the proposal of the Ukrainian National Deputies, I am asking about the return to the vote on this project. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:03:59]] For 218. The decision is not taken. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 35 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u56	Dear colleagues! We continue our morning plenary session. We should now turn to the question of re-examination with the proposals of the President of Ukraine of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Ukraine's 2009 National Budget and on excise duty rates on tobacco products proposed by the President of Ukraine in accordance with the decision of the Supreme Council that we approved yesterday. But now we have a statement from two factions, the factions of the Yulia Timoshenko and the Block of "Our Ukraine – the People's Self-Defense", signed by the factions of the People's Deputies of Kozemakin and the People's Deputy Knazevitch. Dear colleagues! In accordance with the regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I announce a break of 30 minutes to 13 hours for five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u57	Dear colleagues, we continue our morning plenary session. We had two factions taking a break to reconcile their joint actions before the various performances. Please, who of the two factions can present the point of view. Please, National Deputy Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u58	Thank you. What happened today in the Supreme Council is an unprecedented violation that has been demonstrated throughout the country. We national deputies were ignored, and we were deprived of the opportunity to comment on the amendments that were put to the vote. The process took place in a formal manner, so that the procedure was said to be followed. In summary, the Decree on the return of the State Budget Bill for 2010 to the government was voted, i.e. there is actually no draft budget at all today. This is because we have almost the end of the year, and the Supreme Council has actually removed itself from the work on the 2010 budget, and transferred the responsibility for it to the government. The government complied with the constitutional terms and introduced the draft budget by September 15. We worked on a committee, we worked on conclusions, proposals that would allow, if they were supported by the Supreme Council, that would allow us to develop this draft budget for second reading, to accept it as a whole, and to allow the country to enter the new year not only with gas, but also with the budget. Yesterday's talks, the prime ministers of Ukraine and Russia, Timoshenko and Putin, demonstrated that the country was going to be with gas. And I would like the citizens of the country to draw attention to the words of the Russian Prime Minister that in recent years there has been a government in the country that has made commitments. For the first time, there was a relationship between Ukraine and Russia between government leaders that allowed results to be achieved. And it is not in vain that those who are yelling in the hall today were afraid of this, because for you the conflicts between the two neighbouring countries are a “food field” in order to “fish their fish in a cloudy water”. Today, we have good neighbourly relations, and they are established by the fact that our government and Prime Minister Timoshenko keep their word and thus have respect both from Russia and from the countries of the European Union and from all over the world. So I think we should stop populism in the Supreme Council Hall, and if you don't know how, you don't want to do that, let's just hang the castle and say that "everybody went to the front." And pursue politics, go to people, and help people with specific things. And they didn't unite, as I said, the two Victors -- Yushchenko and Yanukovic -- in order to destroy the government, destroy the country, not to be able to overcome the crisis, not to give people the opportunity.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u59	Dear colleagues, we have listened. [[B in m in s a l in]] Wait a minute! We have now heard a position agreed upon by the two factions, for which they have taken a break before the announcement of the “Variance” question, that is, a common position in the “Variance” produced by the faction of the “Lock of Yulia Timoshenko” and the faction “Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense”. Can I have your proposal, please? Please, who has it? Are there a few people? Please sign up. Yavorovsky Volodymyr Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u60	Oleg Lazko will take my place right now, and that's what he'll tell you!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u61	Thank you. My card just disappeared while I was performing. Thank you, Volodymyr Alexanderovich. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, you see how interesting it is that we are holding a meeting of the Supreme Council. When I speak to you, please, I scream, I almost break my voice: give your word to some procedure, or one of the questions -- you don't give a word. And here, once and for all, you give your word. I would very much like to approach all MPs in the same way. I'm sorry, I haven't been able to finish, so I'd like to use those 40 seconds to say it. The country will come out of the crisis only if the authorities work together first, right? They're not going to spill dirt on each other. And everyone will try to make each other worse because they think it'll be better for him. It will be no better for anyone if we do not bring the country in order! And when Timoshenko's home.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u62	Bondarenko Volodymir Dmitrovic. Please, sit down.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u63	I'm in position.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u64	No, I'm not with you, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u65	Vladimir Bondarenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko” Party “Reforms and Orders”. Well, I'm not talking about what's been said about the totally unacceptable violation of the Rules, the volunteerism that today is shown in this room. I want to point out that there are already two halls demonstrating the part of the government that is fighting the government, demonstrating and showing why it is fighting. Yesterday was not approved a beautiful, I think, government program. But it's not approved because, if it were approved a year, you wouldn't be able to touch the government, and in our opponents' plans, there's just going to be the removal of the government at a time when it's going to last 60 days without a government, a complete breakdown of the situation, and then they're going to be on horseback. Today they have done the same. None of their social standards can be implemented in the following year because they do not, and there will be no budget for the country now. What they were here for, they were tearing the air with their calls, and they were fighting for standards, and today they were deliberately destroyed.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u66	Sushenko Alexander Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u67	I ask Mikhail Vasilovich Kosi to give us the word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u68	Kosov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u69	Mikhailo Kossov, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, Party “Reforms and Orders”. So on the second day, we, colleagues, consistently show one position: the worse the better. It was suggested that after today's failure of the State Budget Act, the Prime Minister would resign and someone else would. And no one will normally resign, although if you have enough votes, please vote in favour, but I am absolutely sure that 226 votes are not going to be found in this room today. So I would like to encourage you before we go to the “Variance” to think about Ukraine, about people, about what you are doing to the people, not worse to Prime Minister Yulia Timoshenko, but to the people.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u70	Hare Ivan Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u71	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. Ladies and gentlemen, once we've stopped this circus, everyone is talking about what they want to do, and only in the south today have they taken a three-time break and actually ruined the agenda. And the agenda was very serious, very responsible, because we had to look at the amendments to the State Budget Act 2009 and we had to look at the amendments to the President's Election Act to ensure democratic elections to ensure the citizens' right to real freedom of expression, and we're circulating here, here, there. So let's not go into these circuses right now, we're not going to say "Virgin" because it's going to be a continuation of the same election campaign that's already started, and we're going to work this hour to at least consider the Law on Amendments to the Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine. Then we'll be serious deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u72	Makinko Vladimir Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u73	I ask Ephraim to pass on the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u74	Dear Alexander Vladimirovich! Dear colleagues! I'd like to focus on two questions. First. Two factions took the time to take a break. As a result, we lost half an hour of work. The colleagues here spoke correctly, and they initiated twice again. After that break, we hoped to hear about what issues they were still consulting and what they had to find a concerted action to continue working in the hall. We didn't find anything or hear anything. We just lost our time and heard that someone was in the way of someone else's work. In fact, the problem is that we do not have a budget for the current year. We had a joint decision to revise the budget for the current year in March. As a result, 62 per cent of the 159 billion budgeted in the current year have been disbursed by Timoshenko outside the law and outside the budget. This is the main source of corruption.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u75	Thank you, Your Honor. A recording of the “Variance” is being announced. Bondarenko Volodymir Dmitrovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u76	Vladimir Bondarenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, Party “Reforms and Order”. Ladies and gentlemen, if there are TV sets, you can also watch this room. There are not many people left, but they are representatives of the political forces and factions that all these days express different positions. In its time, such a myth was set in motion that the “Julia Tymoshenko” and the “Reforms and Orders” Party had found some common agreement and created some kind of invisible alliance for society. I note that today there is one problem in our state -- the problem with the Constitution, which today does not work in the part that deals with the distribution of powers and powers. We see that what we have today is not power. The executive authority of the Cabinet of Ministers does not continue to be at the level of the areas, for the President and his Secretariat are in charge there. They've put their people in all areas, and they're blocking the decisions and actions of the government, so it can't go on. It can't go on that any court, any case, any reason, or order, or decision-making. What we have today cannot continue to be what we have in the relationship between higher bodies such as the PNDP, the Cabinet of Ministers and so forth. This multifaceted executive power, which was created by this Constitution, had to be amended and broken. The only possibility is to arrange for the two largest factions in this room. And so it wasn't about any alliance from any point of view, but it was about making changes to the Constitution that would normalize power in Ukraine, allowing us today to understand who's doing what and who's responsible for what. This was captured at the President’s Secretariat by a myth that someone there was negotiating behind their backs. But lately, we've been seeing, in sync, these kind of opposite forces working in a completely coherent way. The President's secretariat, because of the remainder of its faction in the Supreme Council, together with the Party of Regions and Communists, is destroying the government's policy in the area of crisis. Any step taken by the government will receive the same scores, both at the Regional Party and at the President's Secretariat. They broke the budget the same way, they didn't want to take the government program, they're criticizing what's going on in the country today, and they're acting cynically, calmly, at the break of the state, at the break of Ukraine. And the fact that the President began to provoke such letters on the Internet knowingly that at the Prime Minister's meeting, there was virtually an algorithm for Russia and Ukraine's joint work in the most important sphere, in the gas sector. Next year Russia will pay 60 percent more for transit, we will pay world prices, but not Russia. You're fighting Ukraine today, and that's why people need to know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u77	National MP Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u78	Vladimir Yavorowski, "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko", city of Kirovograd. It is said that during the presidential elections in America, Obama said such a phrase to the Republicans and his opponent: “If you Republicans do not stop lying about us, we, the Democrats, will not stop telling the truth about you.” Because of that, it's perfectly clear that today I probably have some little moral right to say that a parliament with an average intellectual level that is now in this room just-just wasn't there, and these two days, I think, have just shown us that there is such a quiet political schizophrenicity in Parliament. I'm sorry, but it actually looks like this. Why does it look like this? Remember the blockade of the rostrum here when Parliament was not working at all! And there were people here who were tearing their shirts off to help the poor, miserable Ukrainians get a little pension, wages, and so forth. So what's going on? When it came to the need to adopt a real budget for the following year, in which it was necessary to set these standards and to answer clearly the question of where to take this money, it turns out that the same heroes who were standing here have wet their hands to vote for this budget. Because of the gap between Parliament and Ukrainian space today, I don't know if anyone will be able to overcome it. Another question I want to touch here. There are many famous people in Ukraine Places that can be on the UNESCO list and so on, one of them is the Inter-Igoria. The border, where one of the first ones in Kiev was actually built, was actually built. The first temple, where the Cossack Hospital was later located, and where legendary Cossacks, cut off with scars, were gathered there to live forever. From Mezigira, the light went to virtually all over Ukraine. On this day, where is it still possible that the person claiming to be the first in the country today actually stole this unique place from the Ukrainian people, stealing 130 hectares of land, a unique land that costs today at an estimated cost of 28 billion dollars that could go into the budget today? Because of that, I'm obviously saying again, the whole political nightmare that we have today is very and very obvious. As a result, I say that the candidate for the Presidents in peace should be called Victor of the Inter-Igorski. And I would very much ask people to call it that. And I say again: Give it back, Victor Fedorovich, give it back! Your people have stolen documents from this village council about what seems to be a purchase for a piece of this unique place. Return it to the State! Only then can we talk about being a presidential candidate, I'm not talking about the President anymore.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u79	National MP Grigorovitch is handing over the right to speak to the national deputy of Arjevetina.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u80	Dear voters, bankers and customers of the banking system! In recent times, the financial market situation in Ukraine has seen some signs of gradual improvement. This was reflected above all in stabilizing Ukraine's currency market situation, halting the flow of population funds from banks, increasing lending to real-economy enterprises, and lowering interest rates. Taking into account the importance of improving legislation in the area of credit and financial relations, the support of bank liquidity, the introduction of effective reserve-making approaches, the creation of additional mechanisms for repayment of loans to natural and legal persons, the logical continuation of these positive trends at the legislative level has been the adoption of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a whole as a law on amending certain legislative acts with the aim of overcoming the negative effects of the financial crisis. [[No. 3585]] The national deputies, by a constitutional majority, secondly confirmed their intentions to support measures aimed at stabilising the situation in Ukraine’s banking system. And yesterday's support was expressed by the President of Ukraine, signing this bill, is the only comprehensive bill today that will finally help regulate customer and bank credit relations. The commercial banks of Ukraine now have the right to restructure the debt owed to borrowers of natural persons under special anticrisis conditions. Restructurings will be subject to loans with a nominal amount not exceeding one million dollars, including foreign currency demined at the official rate of October 1, 2008. The restructuring will be done as follows: granting the borrowers a deferred payment of the principal debt of credit contracts, extending the duration of credit agreements, changing the accrual mechanism in such a way that part of the monthly payment of loans does not exceed 35 percent of the total monthly income of the family. Under restructured credit agreements, commercial banks have to release borrowers from paying any fines for defaulting on credit contracts that have arisen prior to such restructuring. In the event that the mortgage lender fulfils his obligations in full, the commercial bank is entitled to an annual reduction of 0.25 per cent of the principal outstanding debt over the next five years, with the value of the gross cost paid to the bank. Here are some other innovations of this bill: in 2009-2010, a moratorium is being introduced on forced evictions from housing, which is subject to mortgages on leased loans and the sole residence of the mortgage lender. Until 2013, the deadline for exemption from tax on the income of natural persons on deposit operations has been extended. In this regard, I would like to thank the vast majority of my colleagues, the Ukrainian National Deputies for supporting this legislative initiative, and in particular to thank the head of our Banking Committee, Azarov Mikoli Janović, and the national deputies, Yuri Poluniev, and Sergei Klivva. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u81	The national parliament of the Hare gives the right to speak to Davidenko Andriy Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u82	Davidenko, Ukrainian National Party Ladies and gentlemen, I am addressing you with a very serious and real threat to Ukraine. Last week, the Russian side officially sent to the Ukrainian side an intergovernmental agreement on cooperation in the gas field by the 30th year, developed by a bilateral working group from economic cooperation. The preparation of this document, according to Minpalivenergo Ukraine, has been under way since April of this year, which is only now known. In analysing the text of the draft agreement, the spirit of the document itself is indignant, and in its position the ability to manipulate aspects of international public and private law aimed at the deliberate involvement of Ukraine as an independent state in relations between the parent entities with all the consequences that may result from excessive debt burdens that have recently arisen in the “Naftogaz of Ukraine” for the execution of obligations under cabal conditions, gas contracts since 19 January of this year. I am convinced that under today’s conditions it is inappropriate to seek faults and to place responsibility from one political power to another. This should be done by law enforcement agencies. I would just like to focus your attention on particularly dangerous aspects for the State and urge everyone to make every effort to prevent further negative consequences. First of all, the draft agreement contains an obligation only on the part of the Ukrainian side, creating an open image of the violator of international agreements, for the purpose of action or for the omission of which the appraiser must have substantial guarantees. Secondly, there is no Russian responsibility for any violation of gas supply and transit. Thirdly, it is proposed to denounce the 2000-2001 Intergovernmental Agreements between Ukraine and Russia ratified by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Who gave officials the right to negotiate such negotiations without Parliament’s consent? These agreements are, by the way, valid until 2013. Fourthly, there is a real danger that Ukraine can actually give up part of its sovereignty by losing the right to increase energy security if the Russian side doesn't like it. Thus, the draft treaty contains positions that are incompatible with the exercise of government functions, with the powers of the judicial authorities of Ukraine, and directly contravene the principle of State sovereignty and threaten the national security of Ukraine. All of this calls into question the possibility of Ukraine’s continued existence as an independent state. Thus, for the first time in our eyes, we have created an unknown precedent in the doctrine of international law, as stated in the project, the agreement by 2030, the voluntary, contractual rejection of one subject of international law, namely, Ukraine, from part of the functions and exercise of state sovereignty in the interest of another, the Russian Federation, with the right to exercise it, for its own discretion, the delegated part of the functions of State sovereignty. I urge against denunciation of valid, ratified agreements between Russia and Ukraine since 2000, 2001 and 2005 in the gas field, these agreements are strategically important for maintaining the energy security of the state at an appropriate level, they have precedence over any commercial contracts.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u83	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u84	Please consider my statement to be a parliamentary request under the name of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney-General and the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u85	Makinko Vladimir Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u86	Dear colleagues! An open letter from Prime Minister Timoshenko Yulia Volodymyrical to the Prime Minister of Ukraine. “We, the companies of the state-owned air traffic service company of Ukraine, on behalf of the labour force, demand that all attempts to change the management of the enterprise be stopped immediately during political instability in the country. We assume that you don't have enough time to put out requests from the Ukrainian labour force, but we are more than six thousand people, and we don't want to be a toy in the hands of politicians. The labor force had already proved in 1992 that it was capable of protecting its own interests. In today’s situation, we will inform the international community of the real causes and customers of this mess, this political party during the election campaign. The Ukrainian labour force understands that all these actions are political orders and are aimed at destroying Ukraine's stable existing air traffic service system. Because politicians are only interested in money, not in the people who earn it. At the forefront of this struggle, if it starts, the labour force protects its jobs and wages. We believe that in the leadership of the country it is common sense to make the right decision." In 1992, there was a strike by air traffic controllers. The paralysed air space of Ukraine. The collective stood up for its rights, and for 17 years we had peace in the air space of our country. Today, the Ministry of Transportation without a minister has been signing illegal orders for six months. Dear colleagues, we must do everything we can to ensure that the Ukraeruch public enterprise team is working in a calm, professional manner. We are all the President, both the government and the citizens of Ukraine, trusting these people in their lives. We should thank them for their hard work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u87	Danilenko Vladimir Andriyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u88	Ladies and gentlemen, may I present my appeal to the leader of the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Peter Mikolaiovich. Address of residents of the village of Demechvik, the Tetian district The request, on behalf of the Paradise Company of Ukraine of the Tetian Region of Kiev and the citizens of our region, calls on you, the deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to pay attention and to contribute to the unacceptable disadvantages created by the authorities in the higher institutions, as well as the district scale, the regime. All the actions of today’s authorities lead to annihilation of all things so that the common people are destroyed. Our complaint relates to the unjustifiable actions in the village of Demechovka of the Tetian region. A little earlier, the commercial Chevchenkov Sugar Plant was taken in, cut in metal structures, and cut in everything that could be cut, and turned into a metal junkyard. The factory was destroyed, people were unemployed for the reasons of the nearby villages of Demechovka, and now they are in charge of closing down the district hospital in the village. This hospital serves the inhabitants of the 12 villages of our area, namely Demechivka, Díbrokka, Nemadiha, Steppe, Horoshków, Tynica, Kluki, Hmeljkka, High, Stadna, Dubina, Dorodka, this is a crime that can be seen by someone and proof that today is the genocide of our Ukrainian people. How to be sick peasants and adults and children, the consequences of the liquidation of a district hospital will not be too long to wait. So we ask you to stop this vacchanal, the senseless instructions and the arrogance of the authorities, the officials and their actions, and they are taking place throughout the country. It is difficult to fight them until they have prepared the laws, but this cannot be left unpunished. Please note our request and, to the extent possible, turn away the illegal actions of today’s authorities, establish the truth, or the district hospital will be eliminated, and this is a threat to the lives of thousands of our people. Please consider my speech as a parliamentary address to the Kyiv District Council and the district government.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u89	Marina Volodymyrna Perestenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u90	Perestenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! My country will overcome the systemic crisis that has affected all the socio-economic, socio-political spheres of the State today and will eventually return to socialism because there is no other way. The same is true of the science-based analysis of history at all stages of development that dominated and continued to dominate socialist sentiments in society. It confirms that society is seeking socialist sentiments in Simferopol on 7 November to open the Pantheon of Trudova Slava. The celebration of the 92nd anniversary of the Great October Revolution was celebrated by the Pantheon of Labor, which is the answer to those who want to rewrite history. This is an answer to those who think that it is possible to rule the people, holding them under the grip of a dark besie disguised as some program of saving the country. Yeah, there's no socialism today. Yes, today the people do not have in their hands the management of public processes in accordance with the interests of the labour force. But even at this stage of the state mega-crisis, the people are capable of countering the actions of the oligarchic top of their will, of demonstrating their aspirations. The authorities must be able to see from day to day that the people's spirit is alive, living up to the socialist future. And we must begin with such specific cases as were demonstrated in the Crimea on 7 November. When the Communists in the center of Simferopol were founded a square of Socialist Heroes. In addition to the legendary Crimean party leader Kirichenko, a monument was opened to the first secretary of the Crimean Communion of the Company, a participant in the Great Homeland War, the Hero of Social Work, the cavalry of the five Orders of Lenin, the Honorary Crimean Ivan Kondratovich Lutak, and three granite ceilings united in the Pantheon of Labour, with 97 characters of socialist work who lived and worked in the Crimea. These events are monumental and solemn in the light of the current desecration of national history. This event marks the beginning of a new era in the history of Crimea. We have launched a major, crucial action to preserve the historical memory under the motto “Nobody Forgets — Nothing. ” The current, disgraceful situation must be brought to an end as the city's opposition hides its Soviet rewards. Everything must be done to ensure that the city authorities and the property of those enterprises that have been awarded orders during the Soviet period restore reward marks, ceilings to bear in mind the achievements and conquests of the socialist era. “Nobody forgets — nothing is forgotten” is the slogan that we once again put at the forefront of the policy that we are.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u91	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u92	and the main priority of our programme — the spiritual and moral health of society, the basic idea — in respect of the person of work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u93	Stojko Ivan Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u94	Thank you. John Stojko, “For Ukraine! ” Ladies and gentlemen of the National People's Party, honourable radio audiences, yesterday in Yalta there was a significant event, perhaps a meeting of the prime ministers of Ukraine and Russia, which demonstrated the full right of the public movement “For Ukraine!, which has warned of a huge danger since last winter, namely the danger posed by the politics of Timoshenko in the gas field for the Ukrainian economy and for our sovereignty. We ask again why, with full underground refuges, our prime minister's bargaining position has made a deal on such cabal terms that he is obliged to buy an absurdly large amount of gas or to pay billions of fines for the lack of this amount. In fact, it is a form of money transfer from the Ukrainian economy to the Russian economy, for nothing more than the loyalty of the Kremlin of Personality to the Yulia Timoshenko. And what Putin promises not to raise billions of dollars of this debt doesn't matter. Absolutely no written agreement rejecting “Gazprom” criminal sanctions was signed by Timoshenko and could not sign because the debt is increasing and will increase every day, because next year this cable agreement requires us to buy not more than 40 billion cubic metres of gas. And no talk of seemingly overpowering corruption in the gas field of Tymoshenko can distract attention from the obvious fact. After her January contracts, Ukraine was, indeed, in a situation where she simply could not buy this gas or pay astronomical sums for the lack of it. Similarly, no one should be misled by Timoshenko’s words that she would agree with Russia to reduce the volume of gas. After all, January’s contracts provide that if a separate agreement is not reached for a particular year, Ukraine will already buy more than 50 billion cubic feet [50 billion cu m] of gas. And yesterday, in the mouth of Vladimir Putin, the following was said, it was the strengthening of sovereignty in a way that we welcome, that is, he praised these very agreements that were signed by two countries or by two prime ministers. In fact, it's a cabal that our economy can't handle, I emphasize, not because of the price of gas, but because of the volume that we have to buy in Russia. Therefore, the public movement “For Ukraine!” which calls for the immediate dissolution of these cabal contracts and for the conclusion of normal contracts for the supply of gas needed in Ukraine with market prices both for gas and for its transit. It will be the promotion and sovereignty of Ukraine and our economic independence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u95	Gordijenko Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u96	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. The country is being held and, in the country, the process of looting of Ukraine is ongoing. There is now a violent situation at the state-owned subsidiary Poltavanaftogasgeology. The labour force of this enterprise, defending the rights of the state and its own rights, is forced to declare strike and resort to extremes. The ultimate way is today's hunger has been declared. My address came with the following failure to contact the director of this company. Dear Sergey Volodymyrovich, we ask you to take all measures to halt the illegal activities of the Minister of Environmental Protection, the head of the NAC “Nadra Ukraine” Government of the Polish National Association for the Elimination of Childhood “Poltavanaftegasgeology” as the structure unit of the NAC “Nadra Ukraine”. On 29 October 2009, at a meeting of the NAC Supervisory Board “Nadra Ukraine” under the head of the NAC “Nadra Ukraine” Government, the Onomarenka violated the rules of existing legislation without the participation of the head of the profession. The head of the Rudenko hotline company decided to recommend that the Ministry of Environmental Protection stop the activities of the subsidiary “Poltavanaftogasgeology” by eliminating it. The head of the CDC Association of Geology and Geodesy Suprun, who was present at this meeting, knew in advance that “Poltavanaftogasgeology” had come out of the industry, without any authority among other members of the Supervisory Board and invited members, supported the need for the liquidation of the subsidiary. In doing so, it is motivated by the fact that the company is no longer able to recover because it has been deprived of licenses, drilling equipment, and no qualified professionals. By order of the Nature Minochron of 12 November and by order of “Nadra Ukraine” of 16 November, a commission was set up to eliminate the subsidiary “Poltavanaftagazgeology”. The director and the entire labour force thinks that the enterprise has been led to bankruptcy by the deliberate and criminal actions of officials of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Nature, and asks that the authorities of the Ukrainian Public Prosecutor's Office assess all these activities. In this regard, as I have put forward, I am asking the Attorney-General and Head of Government for the abolition of the legal and regulatory acts of the Nature Minochrona and the NAK “Nadra Ukraine” which led to the liquidation of the state-owned subsidiary “Poltavanaftogasgeology”. I'm asking you to consider this a parliamentary request.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u97	Kenzior Jaroslav Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u98	Respectable compatriots! The civil movement “For Ukraine!” outraged by the disgraceful conduct of Prime Minister Putin during meetings with Russian government leader Vladimir Putin. As you look at these dialogues, these joint discussions, you come to the conclusion that our prime minister was acting like a primitive street girl, give her a gift for that definition, on the Prokremian political panel. Julia Tymoshenko was not only boasting that, in fact, she was growing more and more energized by the energy storm on Ukraine’s neck and wanted to add an atomic cabal, turning us into a marionette country controlled by the Kremlin. No less shameful is the conduct of the head of the Ukrainian government during Putin’s Ham Address to the Presidents of Ukraine and Georgia. During Timoshenko's press conference, Putin, in his own deplorable Cambodian manner, told him what should be done to the heads of sovereign states, and he accompanied it with no less insidious texts. No matter what internal political relations exist in Ukraine, the Prime Minister could not fail to understand that her Kremlin guest on Ukrainian soil during the official action offends the head of the Ukrainian state and the guest of our country, the President of Georgia. The prime minister of Ukraine not only did not respond to the underprivileged, primitive jokes of Putin, as would the representative of the sovereign, worthy, proud state, but herself went down to the level of the pro-Russian prime minister. The Russian prime minister began to report to him without what parts of his clothes she could have dinner. The question is why Putin does not allow himself to have such hammock jokes during meetings with European leaders, but he does not do so for the first time in his encounter with Timoshenko. The answer is clear: Timoshenko is encouraging such jokes, hoping for the price of humiliation and dignity and the dignity of his own State and its partners to gain even greater support from the Kremlin before the elections. That is how the worst of the Ukrainian hetmans, who asked for royal favors, led their own country to total captivity. This is what our great poet Taras Shevchenko wrote about: “The slaves, the horseshoes, the filth of Moscow. ” If until recently two competitors of Presidents Timoshenko, Yanukovic fought for Moscow’s support, the Crimean meeting showed that Moscow, the Kremlin, had been identified. They're on the run for Julia Timoshenko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u99	Silent Pavel Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u100	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! Yesterday, at a meeting of an expert commission on social morality, I was introduced to a pathological film called "Pilka-6", which could soon, God forbid, appear on our screens. No mentally healthy person is able to consume this product, and at this time our prominent filmmakers, unemployed, humiliated, seek refuge in foreign lands, in foreign studies. And recently Michaelo Illenko of the family of prominent filmmakers, including the national genius Yuri Illenko, prosaic, film theorist, film scientist, teacher, the person who made the glory of the Ukrainian cinematographer, we don't hear him, we don't see him for decades. And Michaelo Illenko is his own brother, who made a press conference about him having to go to Antarctica, where he himself would be filming his own savings, making a film about our Rambo -- about John Dozenck -- a hero of the Soviet Union who was supposed to die in the Stalin camps, but found himself in Canada and led an Indian tribe. So, he said, and I share with him in the following questions: if the production of Ukraine actually stopped, if the maintenance of national film production was planned to be budgeted that didn't match the thousandth share of its real needs when the national film product in the income article -- and the Ukrainian film was almost always cashy -- turned into a cost-effective economic article when students who are bringing Ukrainian awards to the most famous international festivals are traditionally financed at the end of the year in terms of the extent that they look like abuse of talent, when the government in Ukraine 18 years can't give a legislative opportunity to Ukrainian cinema production to rise to the feet when, outside of the profession, and sometimes physical existence, to the generation of creative workers, from the veterans to the diplomats; when in the territory of Ukraine, there is a chance of Ukrainian film production to become a pornographic fiddler, when outside of the diviso, and sometimes of the diviso of the diviso, and sometimes the economy of the economy of the economy of the economy, and of the economy of the economy of the economy, of the economy of the economy of the economy of the economy of the economy of the economy of the economy of the economy of the economy of the economy of the economy of the economy of the economy of the economy of the economy of the economy of the economy of the economy of the economy of the economy of the economy of the economy of the economy of the economy of the economy of the economy of the economy of the economy of the economy of the economy of the economy of the economy of the economy of the economy of the economy of the economy of the economy, of the economy of the economy of the economy of the economy of the economy of the economy of the economy of the economy of the economy of the economy of the economy of the economy of the economy of the economy of the economy of the economy of the economy of the economy of the economy of the economy of the economy of the economy of the economy of the economy of the economy of the economy of the economy of the economy of the economy of the economy of the economy of the economy of the economy of the economy of the economy of the economy of the economy of the economy of the economy of the economy of the economy of the economy of the economy of the economy of the economy of the economy of the economy of the economy of the economy of the economy of the economy of the economy of the economy of the economy of Without a Ukrainian cinematography, our nation will be undervalued. So my question to all those who are responsible for this area, starting with the Ministry of Culture and ending with the Prime Minister: when are we going to do our Ukrainian cinematographer and anticipate the necessary budget for next year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u101	KARKOV YEUGEN IGORVICH
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u102	Respectable voters, respectable people's deputies! Against the backdrop of the complete crisis of power and pre-election hysteria, the Odessa region continues to be plagued by wild scandals and extraordinary incidents. After a number of fires in the city centre, raids of enterprises and problems with freedom of speech in Odessa itself, the black stripe began to move to rural areas. This week, we have witnessed the excruciating situation that has taken place in the Belyaev region of Odessa. Law enforcement officials and Ukrenergo have applied force to residents of the village of Usatov, who oppose the installation of a high-voltage electricity line right near and at their homes. The site of the collision resembled a theatre of hostilities: explosions, smoke checkers, clubs, hysterical cries of civilians and people, not even saving children, were brutally beaten by minors. For example, Alexander Vernidub, a resident of Svetlana Teplich, said that they had been beaten with their feet, looked neither at age nor at social status. On 17 November, the Vice-President of the Regional Council, Nikolai Tynduq, assured the Usatovians that the installation of the LEP in the settlement would not be carried out, on 18 November at 6 a.m., law enforcement officials and the personnel in the state, had in fact introduced the military situation in the settlement and established the killing. The whole point is that Ukrenergo's leadership, through a court decision, influenced the opinion of the public and the general public, read, their people, quickly, unceremoniously began the installation of an electricity line through homes and directly on the premises of the people. The company does not want to hear about the way of negotiations, compromises and social responsibility. There is already a classic definition of Carl Marx that “more than a hundred per cent of his capital in profits is willing to go to any crime”. Who is preventing companies, I stress, from running a line abroad? I reply: Greed, greed, lawlessness, pocket money, and a full-blown attitude towards their own people and their own people. However, the inhabitants of Usatho do not intend to surrender. And I'm sure none of us would want a high-voltage 35 kilovolt line to go over their heads. At present, mammals are not giving up, they are practically digging trenches and setting up barricades. And I fully support the countrymen and stand ready to defend their position firmly and in principle. In view of the fact that the source of power in Ukraine is the people, and the sullen top of power along with their lobby corporations have forgotten that such a law, on behalf of the Company of Ukraine faction, requires the Office of the Attorney-General, the Ministry of the Interior and the Cabinet of Ministers to establish an interdepartmental commission on this matter as a matter of urgency. The Odessa Regional Administration, the Odessa Regional Council, is requesting that we intervene urgently in the conflict and declare its principled position with regard to the impostors who have opposed our countrymen. I ask the Head of the Supreme Council, Vladimir Litvin, to support the initiative to establish an interim commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council on this issue, including representatives of all factions of Parliament. I would like to see my statement as a request to the heads of these ministries and departments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u103	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u104	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense. Honorable four national deputies who have remained in the Hall, the noble Ukrainian people! Sadly, I saw that a woman could be offended from this rostrum, even if she could not answer you. I want to apologize from all men to the brave woman, the Prime Minister, who did a huge job yesterday, and here those who wear pants and call themselves “men” were calling her brutal words. It's still working today. I wanted to draw my attention in my speech to these things so that we Ukrainians could understand that we are a huge nation. And as I watch today as the Ministry of Health lamentably asks around the world as a senator of the International Parliament and Peace, I will also help get a few million dollars free of charge to bring what is needed here. But when I saw them begging. I want to remind you of the story. So, on May 17, 1886, Odessa created the first bacteriological station in Russia and the second in the world, headed by Elijah Mečnikov, an outstanding scientist who became the first Nobel laureate in the field of biological science in Russia. On it was the second great scientist I.Bardah conducted a test of a vaccine against a fairy tale produced by the famous Louis Pasteur, proving her safety to man. What do you think? All the vaccines that were done there, against tuberculosis, against malaria, the Siberian expression, and so on, at that station that was destroyed in recent years, more than a year ago, I'm addressing the Minister of Health, for the creation, restoration of an institution called the Ukrainian Research Institute of Virology and Epidemiology, which was destroyed during the premiere of the great ones who are currently racing into presidents and have white blue flags. I turned around and didn’t even get an answer. Ladies and gentlemen, we Ukrainians have given the world the first vaccines, and today we are begging? You realize that there are other vaccines in Ukraine that are being tested, and they have to be, they're going to be, they're going to be, they're going to be, they're going to be, they're going to be, they're going to be, they're going to be, they're going to be, they're going to be, they're going to be, they're going to be, they're going to be, They have to take into account the characteristics of strains. I want my speech to be considered by the government's parliamentary request to create their own vaccines and protect the interests of the Ukrainians. Because every state.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u105	Gnatkevich Yuri Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u106	Yuri Gnatkevitch, Yulia Timoshenko Block. Today, November 20, it rains outside, autumn, but in the air, the new year is coming and the Christmas of the Cross is coming. I think that in the capital of the Russian Federation, Moscow is being carefully prepared by both producers and directors, editors and owners of television companies until New Year's Eve, concerts and programs. In Kiev, I don't think they're getting ready, but why? I want to remind you, last year, after I heard the greeting of Ukrainian President Yushchenk on the occasion of the new year, I translated, as all the television channels say, as on the First TV channel after 12:00, after 24.00 was the Russian film comedy "The Common Miracle" about the life of Russian nobility, with some Russian king there. From the screens of all the other TV channels, Maxim Halkin, some two assholes in Moscow, who are constantly dressed in women’s clothing, were cursing and making fun of people. Sometimes in Moscow, we have people like Danilko, Danilce, Mosesianka, who have renounced their native language, renounced their native Ukrainian themes and therefore look really funny in the eyes of our people. Here Paul Mokchan spoke of our more, Ukrainian cinema. The Ukrainian film was indeed destroyed, but it could not have been destroyed. I'd like to take you back to a great movie, maybe he had some flaws, but it's an interesting movie called "Roxolana" with a lot of series. After that, no film ever came out. The truth is we have a documentary film and it's not bad, it's about a real Ukrainian story and it's shown, it's shown by the TV "New" but only at 3-4 o'clock in the morning. I was talking and wondering why our Ukrainian song, our humor, where our performers, our ensembles, our bands, our soloists, our quartets, our duets, our choirs, we have everything. There are no proposals, and from whom are proposals to come? Turn on the Ukrainian radio, turn on the channel “Culture”, a nationwide channel, such as “And we’re at your house in the morning!”, “From Saturday to Saturday”, full of humor, full of our entire Ukrainian. The TV channel “Ukraine” is just called “Ukraine”, there is really no Ukrainian subject on the subject of culture, you will not hear a song. Why so? Because television has been captured in us by people for whom everything in Ukrainian is foreign. They do not want to build a Ukrainian state, they want to legitimize, consolidate and strengthen the achievements of Russian empires, and the Kremlin leaders from Ukraine are not Ukrainians. I ask Kolomoyski, Ahmkova, Horoshkovsky, Pinchuk, all of our oligarchs to mention that they live in Ukraine and do something pleasant.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-20-m0.u107	Dear colleagues, I declare this morning's plenary session closed. The next plenary session will begin on Tuesday, December 1, at 10 a.m. Good luck!
