ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-16-m0.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. [[10:09:51]] They registered with 250 national deputies in the session hall. [[Applause]] The next meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear National Deputies! Before continuing our work, I want to talk to people and to everyone who sees what's going on. This disgrace, which began with the blocking of the rostrums of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, led to the blocking of the Cabinet of the Supreme Council, to the beatings of MPs, which also called for normal work. I would like to stress once again: the reason for the conflict is that the Supreme Council of Ukraine does not seem to be considering the Law on Living Minimum and Minimum Wages, it's a political cover-up, it's fornication. Because I've offered to go to the session hall once in a while to vote on this law. Voting openly, standing up, in person, in secret, but voting. Rather, there is no desire to make any decisions. In fact, the last institution is being demolished today. Today, there is a practice: to bring the situation to absolute absurdity. How can this continue to lead to absurdity? I've got MPs coming to see me and they're showing me IDs. They took their cards, turned them into fortifications, and sent them to the storm. I'm talking to the deputies and I'm saying, after January 17th, we're still gonna have to talk. We live in one extreme! Decisions must be made! You have to work for the country! What are you doing? Think about it! What are you doing? I mean, let all the leaders come to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I asked them to come and argue their position here. Did you give the order for war? What does that do? In accordance with the Ukrainian Supreme Council’s Rules, 151 people’s deputies have made proposals for an extension to hold an extraordinary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The schedule of the meeting is defined. Please, calm down, don't fight! Please, I beg of you! Allow me to close the session! For consideration, the following questions are proposed: firstly, the oath of the Ukrainian People's Deputy, secondly, the declaration of parliamentary motions, thirdly, the draft decree repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the financing of the Euro, and finally another bill, the ratification of the agreement. All of it! And the closing session. What's going on? Understand. You want to vote, you want to vote. Calm down! Do you want to vote on the minimum of living? Sit down, I'll put you to the vote. What do you want, please tell me?Oh, my God! Vote? I'll put it to a vote. Put your cards on and vote, no problem. I've always supported you. And today we accepted the Declaration of State Sovereignty. I'll close with the Supreme Council's decision not according to your orders. Please! I'll close the session on your instructions. Therefore, the first question is the admission to the oath of the National Deputy of Ukraine. [[Come on, it's your business.]] July 13, 2009, Central Election Commission. [[l m m e s m e s m e s m e s m e s m e s m e s t h e s t h e s t h e s t h e s t h e s ……]] On July 13, 2009, the Central Election Commission registered the National Deputy of Ukraine, elected on September 30, 2007, in a multi-mandatory national constituency, Tishchenko Oleg Ivanovich, who was included in the election list of the “Julia Tymoshenko Block”. In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution, Ukraine’s national deputies make an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Tishchenko Oleg Ivanovich, is invited to make an oath on the rostrum. Please read the oath.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-16-m0.u2	I vow to abide by the Constitution, the laws of Ukraine, and to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-16-m0.u3	In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law “On the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine” and article 59 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Regulations, I inform you of the entry of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Tishchenko Oleg Ivanovic, into the membership of the Deputy faction “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko” and of the coalition of MP factions in the Supreme Council. A request was received from the Ukrainian National Deputies: VICTOR ALIEN to the President of Ukraine regarding the threat of the disappearance of Lake Shaka National Park. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. Asking for help. [[10:15:39]] For 217 Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:15:58]] For 228 Decision taken. Victor SLAUTI to the President of Ukraine on the destruction of agrarian education and the reduction of government procurement by 50 percent of economic specialties and 10 percent of other specialities in agrarian colleges. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:16:35]] For-48 The decision is not taken. Igora ŠAROVA to the President of Ukraine regarding the referral of the National Exposort of Ukraine team to concern about the integrity of this State institution in connection with the Ukrainian Presidential Decree of 2 June 2009 No.379 "Questions of the National Exposor of Ukraine". I'll put it to a vote to support the request. Please vote. [[10:17:17]] For 229 Decision taken. Igora KALETNIKA to the President of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to prohibit the activities of neofascist organizations that fuel internal hostilities and the criminalization of persons involved in criminal activities, particularly the act of vandalism in relation to the monument Volodymyr Lenin in Kiev, as well as the lifting of Presidential decrees in Ukraine that contribute to Ukraine’s further division. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. Please vote. [[10:18:06]] For 181 Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:18:26]] For 169 The decision is not taken. By factions, please, the Party of the Regions is 0, the Block of July Timoshenko – 113, Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense – 9, the Communists – 27, the Block of Lithuania – 20, the non-factional – 0. LEVA BIRJECA to the President of Ukraine on the violation of legislation by a member of the National Council for Television and Radio Broadcasting by Vladislav Llasovski. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:19:06]] For 168 Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:19:26]] For 158. The decision is not taken. Jurya TREUGUBOVA to the President of Ukraine on the issue of the transfer of State property to the private equity company President Hotel. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:19:56]] For-182 Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:20:17]] For-188. The decision is not taken. People's Deputies: Group of People's Deputies to the President of Ukraine on 19 January 2009 contracts between the National Stock Exchange Company Naftogaz Ukraine and the Open Stock Exchange Company Gazprom for Natural Gas Sales 2009-2019 and Natural Gas Transit 2009-2019. [[GREENCEN, KINAHA, GREENWECK]] I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:21:01]] For-42 The decision is not supported. Group of National Deputies to the President of Ukraine on the non-use by law enforcement authorities and public administrations of measures to protect the rights of members of the Malian Paradise. [[GOOD, BILORUS, PETER]] I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:21:39]] For-195 Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:21:59]] For-191 The decision is not taken. Michael PAPIEVA and Valerija BARANOVA to the President of Ukraine on the unsatisfactory situation in the State Treasury of Ukraine. I bet on the vote to support the request [[10:22:23]] For-29 The decision is not taken. OSKI and Mikhail PAPIEVA to the President of Ukraine for violations of aviation legislation, which threatens the economic security of the state. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:22:52]] For 122 The decision is not taken. Mr. Andrija PORTNOVA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the organization of health care, which has been taken into custody and sentenced. VADIM KLAZNIZENK to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-admission of the destruction of the flag of the Ukrainian ship repair industry - Sevastopol Maritime Plant. VICTOR ALIEN to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the threat of the disappearance of Lake Shakah National Park. Victor SLAUTI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the destruction of agrarian education and the reduction of government procurement by 50% of economic specialties and 10% of other agrarian specialties. Mr. DEMJANČUK to the Prime Minister, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Prosecutor General, on the verification of information concerning the activities of the Chief of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Kharkiv region of Viktor Razwadowski. Victoria DEMJANČUK to the Prime Minister, Minister of Internal Affairs, Head of the Security Service, Prosecutor General, on the verification of cases of abuse of office and violation of legislation by the Chief of the Department of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Kharkiv region of Viktor Razwadowski. Vladimir HERASIMČUKA to the Prime Minister for the study of the problem and the development of measures for the creation of a single agency for the regulation of housing and utility tariffs. Vladimir HERASIMČUKA to the Prime Minister on the inactivity of the National Electricity Regulatory Commission of Ukraine on the regulation of gas tariffs for the Open Shareholder Association Kyivgaz. Vladimir LEMZI to the Prime Minister for a program of recovery from the crisis and restoration of the state shipping company Black Sea Sailing. Vladimir LEMZI to the Prime Minister for the appointment of the Director of the Biotechnique Institute of Engineering and Technology of the Ukrainian Academy of Agrarian Sciences. Mr. Vladimir STRETOVIĆA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the situation surrounding the Open Shareholder Society "The Buying Sugar Combine". Vladimir YAVORISKI to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the illegal reduction of the area of the protection landscape of the National Museum of National Architecture and the life of Ukraine of the National Academy of Sciences in the village of Pyrogovo and the distribution of land around it. Vladimir YAROSCHUKA to the Prime Minister on the application of the National Agency of Ukraine to ensure the efficient use of the energy resources of double standards and the unwarranted involvement of the Director of the Society with limited responsibility for the "Agro-firma" in administrative responsibility. JERESIAH Igora to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds for the capital repair of emergency premises at the Cherka State University of Technology. Katerina VASCHUK to the Prime Minister for the allocation of an additional limit on electricity and its costs for the non-accident exploitation of meliorrhial systems in the elimination of the rain flood and for the avoidance of crop loss in the Ratni district of Volin. Edouard PRUETNIKA to the Cabinet of Ministers on the examination of the facts set out in the collective address of specialists in the Central Accounting Department of Education of the Sosnica District Public Administration and on the use of appropriate measures to protect the social rights of budget workers with regard to the receipt of salaries and guaranteed payments in accordance with the Regulation of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the remuneration of workers on the basis of the single tariff network of discharges and coefficients for the salaries of employees of institutions, institutions and organizations of separate areas of the budgetary sphere, and the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine 'To arrange conditions for the payment of work and approval of tariff schedules of staff of educational institutions, institutions of education and scientific institutions'. Igora SHAROVA to the Prime Minister for inadequate financing of health facilities in rural areas. MICHELLA to the Prime Minister for urgent measures to be taken to reconstruct the accident building of the Mikhail School in Synelnik district of Dnipropetrov. MICHELLA to the Prime Minister on the use of priority measures aimed at improving the environmental situation in the Dniprojn city of Dnipropetrovsk. Mr. Mikoli KULČINSKI to the Prime Minister on the refusal by the Department of Forced Enforcement on 29 December 2008 to enforce the decision of the Kyiv District Court in Poltava of 9 April 2008 on the reimbursement of Mikola Artemenko's debt for assistance as a participant in the war in the Democratic Republic of Afghanistan on the basis that the 2008 State Budget did not provide budgetary allocations for the use of court decisions. MICHELLE RUDEN to the Prime Minister on the tense situation that arose in the city of Žitomir as a result of a five - and - a - half - million - salary debt owed to employees of the Zitomir Tram Traffic Authority. Mr. Mikoli Shershun to the Prime Minister regarding the suspension of the restructuring of the road sector in Ukraine during the economic crisis. Mr. Mikoli Sherschun to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the inclusion of the Regional Municipal Enterprise “International Airport Level” in the list of sites to serve the European Football Championship 2012. Alexander EDINA to the Prime Minister for preventing the closure of rural educational institutions in the Kirovograd region. Alexander EDINA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about the allocation of funds from the State Budget for the completion of the construction and repair of the lighting system of the Poznan Central District Hospital. Mr. Alexander POPOVA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for an inappropriate response to Paul Mobchan's parliamentary request to the Prime Minister for the preservation of the creative welcome of the name John Kozlowski and the city of Kyiv. SERGEANT TERRESTUKA to the Prime Minister for the financing of the University of Oman. Paul SULKOVSKI to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the violation of land law and the rights of the Cherka Institute of Agricultural Production of the Ukrainian Academy of Agricultural Sciences by officials of the Smilian District State Administration and the Malosmilian Council of the Cherkas region. Paul SULKOVSKI to the Prime Minister regarding the appeal of the members of the Equine District Council to include the “Equine” International Airport in the list of subjects serving the 2012 European Football Championships. Roman ZABZALJECK to the first Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine on the failure to carry out a mandate by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the failure to respond by the State Committee on Forestry to a parliamentary appeal regarding illegal actions in the coastal protection strip along the Black Sea in the village of Kobleve. SERGEANT TERRESTUKA to the Prime Minister regarding the state order for the training of specialists and masters. LITHUANIA’S Jury to the Prime Minister on the bankruptcy of the Open Shareholder Society, Harkovmetroud, and on the issue of the State Property Fund of Ukraine. LITHUANIA’S Jury to the Prime Minister for the execution of the State. the State of Tax Obligations and Returns of VAT to a Company with Slovak Investments, the Limited Responsibilities Society.".. Jurya TREUGUBOVA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General, on the issue of the transfer to the rental of State property of the Private Shareholders Association "President Hotel". Valeria Baranova and Michael PAPIJEVA to the Prime Minister about the spending violations. Groups of National Deputies to the Prime Minister, the Attorney-General on the non-use of law enforcement and public administration measures to protect the rights of members of the Malian Paradise. [[GOOD, BILORUS, PETER]] Group of People's Deputies to the Prime Minister on 19 January 2009 contracts between the National Stock Exchange Company Naftogaz Ukraine and the Open Stock Exchange Company Gazprom for Natural Gas Sales 2009-2019 and Natural Gas Transit 2009-2019. [[GREENCEN, KINAHA, GREENWECK]] Groups of National Deputies to the Prime Minister on a state-level solution to the issue of providing full-scale endoprothesis for patients requiring endoprostiture and elimination of long-term queues. [[COMARA, CHEETOVA AND OTHERS]] Groups of National Deputies to the Prime Minister on urgent measures to restore the financing of the House of Audio Recording and Printing of the Ukrainian Blind Society. [[FIVES, POLENCHI, BILOSIER]] Anatoly MATVIENKA to the Head of the Supreme Court, the Head of the Justice Council, the Ministry of Health, the Attorney General for the violation of legislation in the case of Professor Mikola Prodanczuk and the actions of the Attorney General to stop the campaign of additional immunization against measles and rubella. Groups of National Deputies to the Prime Minister, the Head of the Security Service, the Head of the State Committee on Land Resources, the Minister of Environmental Protection, the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Head of the State Committee on Forestry, the Head of the State Environmental Inspectorate on Legal Response to the Illegal Construction of a Building in the Landwater Recreation Complex, the Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine, Renato Kuzmin, and other environmental damage. [[SOLJEVA, SUGAR, SUSTIQUE]] Groups of National Deputies to the Prime Minister on the reduction of government procurement in higher educational institutions in Ukraine. [[JANUKOVI, COMA AND OTHERS]] Valentina MATWEYEVA to the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Labour, and social policy on the need for State attention to provide cardiological assistance to Ukrainian citizens and training for appropriate medical professionals. The Office of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine to the Head of the Supreme Court, the Prosecutor-General on violations of the current legislation of Ukraine by the investigating authorities of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Chernigiv region and the Prosecutor's Office of the Chernigiv region in criminal proceedings No.07-7704, as well as on the approval of the head of the Novozavod District Court of Chernigova by Mikhail Murashk, who is responsible for an unfair decision and interference with the activities of the judges. Valery of the Writership to the Ministry of Regional Development and Construction, Head of the Kyiv City State Administration, for the immediate cessation of the chaotic construction of Klovski Yar in Kiev and the immediate use of measures to prevent the destruction of Apartment No. 7 on the street of John Maryanenko in Kiev as a result of the adjacent construction of the office housing center. Vladislav KASJOVA to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service for the violation of the rights of Ukrainian citizens, including with regard to the assistant consultant of the Ukrainian National Deputy Vladislav Kaskova-Tarasa Ippolitov. Victor BONDARENKA to the Head of the State Tax Administration, Head of the Pension Fund, National Bank, Interim Administrator of the Regional Development Bank, on the application of the Regional Development Bank for payments to the State Budget of Ukraine and the postponement of the State Tax Inspectorate in the Pecher region of Kiev for payment of the payment obligations of the State Bank for payment of payments to the State Treasury until the implementation of the sharer's payment orders granted by the State Tax Inspectorate in the City of Kiev. Vladimir BONDARENKA to the Minister for Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, for failure to provide a concrete response to parliamentary appeals regarding the purposeless use of urban municipal transport to counter opposition political action during a rally at the Kyiv City Public Administration on November 27, 2008. Vladimir BONDARENK to the head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the delay in investigating a criminal case involving the fictitious bankruptcy of the Kyivmlin collective rental company. Mr. Vladimir DENILENKA to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for ignoring the decisions of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine regarding the assignment of a pension and the payment of debts to former Interior Minister Oleg Timoshenko. Mr. Vladimir PHILIPPEN to the Minister for Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the inaction of the prosecutor’s offices and internal affairs in examining the circumstances of the death of a citizen of Natalia Cimbal and delaying the criminal offence. Viacheslava KYRILENKA to the National Bank of Ukraine regarding the return to the Children's magazine "Malitko" of the right to use the funds of its deposit account in an open stock company "Ukrprombank" to solve temporary financial problems. Vladimir JAVORISKI to the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine for discontent with the reply that came from the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine and the Ministry of Justice regarding the inaction of the Prosecutor's Office of the Kirovograd Region in considering the intentional failure of the decisions of the Lenin District Court of Kyrovgrad and the Dnipropetrov Court of Appeal by the City of Kirovgrad, Mr. Volodymyr Puzakov, to renew his office as the first deputy of the city's head, Mr. Anatolia Prestoly, and to pay him a salary for the time of forced exile. GREGORY TO THE Head of the Security Service of Ukraine on the violation of a criminal case based on the fact of mass violent evictions in 1944 of Crimea Tatars and other peoples who lived in Crimea as the genocide of these peoples, that is, the crime envisaged in article 1, paragraph 442, of the Criminal Code of Ukraine and the legal assessment of the actions of officials of the State authorities of the totalitarian Communist regime led by Joseph Stalin. [[deportations]] EUGEN KYRILČUKA to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine for extracurricular operational treatment at the expense of Edward Nikonchuk’s budget. Mr. Eduard PRUTNIK to the Minister of Fuel and Energy, the first Deputy Minister of Finance for the address of the Krasna Rural Council of the Bahmatic Region for the benefit of 170 owners of the building of the underground gas pipeline Urbane-Mitchenka-Red, the address of the Borznian City Council and the holding of the gasification of the villages of Zabeljsvin, Olenika, Velika Zagorovka, Pliski Borznian district, and the appeals of the City and Obolonian Village Councils of the Corropian region of Montenegro concerning the gasification of the villages of Pridesnjansk, Gorište, Obolno, Proletarsk, and the completion of the gasification of the village of Verba. Igor Rybakova to the Secretary of the RNBO on the immediate elimination of the organized criminal smuggling group Sergio Badjak and his associates, which is causing millions of casualties to the State and acts for the direct support of the Lviv police. MICHELLA JANKOVSKI to the Head of the State Customs Service to support the appeal of the Open Shareholders' team, Gorlovka Donetsky district. Irina BELIEF to the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Council of Justice, the Attorney-General, the Head of the Court of Appeal of the Chernigian Region, the Prosecutor's Office of the City of Kiev on the systematic violations of the law enforcement system by law enforcement and judicial authorities during the investigation of the unlawful activities of officials of the Association of Industrial and Commercial Companies "AMC LTD" and on the selective application of procedural legislation by judges of the Supreme Court of Ukraine during the course of civil proceedings. MIKOY JANKOVSKI TO THE NATIONAL BANK ON SUPPORT OF THE LEGAL REQUIREMENTS OF THE WORKING GROUP OF THE OPEN-COUNTARY "Concern Stirol" M. Gorlovka Donetsk Region. OXANI BILOSIR to the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Attorney General, for the use of urgent measures to bring the criminal responsibility of a citizen named Jana Kisil, who has fraudulently taken over the cost of more than 3 million dollars. TO THE Head of the U.S. Customs Office of Ukraine on the groundless transfer of the customs office from Dubno to Radivilov of the Plain region and the restoration of his work in Dubno. THE OLEGE OF ZARUBINE to the Ministry of Health on the reality of the threat of mass influenza and the use of public funds allocated to the prevention and treatment of the so - called “pig flu. ” Alexander ŠEPELEVA to the Ministry of Environmental Protection on the use of measures to prevent an environmental disaster in the Volinsk region. Alexia ZURAVKA to the Head of the Security Service, the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Attorney General, on the abuse by officials of the Supreme District State Administration of the Kyiv Region in considering the issue of the allocation of land to the Kyiv Sea veterans cooperative. Helen LUKASH to the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Attorney General for the involvement of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Viktor Lozinski, the Prosecutor of the Golovanów District of Kirovograd, Eugen Horbenko, and the Chief of the Golovanovska RV UMC of Ukraine in the Kirovograd region of Mikhail Kovalski, until the murder of 53 - year - old Valerius Olijnik. Helen LUKASH to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, the Minister of Agrarian Politics, the Attorney General of Ukraine on the inaction of prosecutors, the police and the State Executive Service in protecting the property rights of Larissa Sergey and her minor children. Ruslan KNEZVIĆA to the Head of the State Commission for the Regulation of the Financial Services Markets of Ukraine on the return of funds to the Ukrainian Financial Union investors. Sergey KOSHINA to the Ministry of Transport and Liaison concerning the opening of a 307-kilometre railway crossing of the Strashes-Sarna of the Lviv Region Railway Directorate. TETTYNA SOLUTIONS to the Minister of Agrarian Politics regarding the situation surrounding the Sorokotaskie children’s enterprise in the village of Sorokotajaga in the region of Kyiv. Mr. Andria PARUBIA and Ms. Viacheslav KYRILENKA to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the investigation of the crime committed against the disabled of the Second Group of Sergio Rastigin’s War. Groups of National Deputies to the Minister of Justice on the legal assessment of the legality of the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine. [[COMARA, YANUKOVIĆA and others]] Groups of National Deputies under the responsibilities of the Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, the Minister of Education and Science to verify the validity of the establishment of the National University of Water Management and the use of natural resources in the city of Equine pay for a master’s degree of 25,000 dollars. [[FIVES, WORKER, BILLOZIR]] Groups of National Deputies to the Head of the State Committee on Technical Control and Consumer Policy of Ukraine, the Attorney-General on Gross and Cynical Violations by Temporary Administrators and Officials of Ukrprombank, Rodowidbankk, Kiev, Nadra, and so on: articles 1060 of the Civil Code of Ukraine - on the immediate issuance to investors of their funds that have been transferred to banks on deposit terms; articles 20 of the Ukrainian Law on Citizens' Appeal - to promptly issue to investors of information that support the Bank's refusal to comply with the terms of the return agreements; the requirements of legislation - on bank handling of consumer complaints and the timely provision of answers to the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine's failure to comply with the requirements of the legislation - on the establishment of banks - on the processing of consumer complaints and on the timely basis of their failure to comply with the laws of the Public Prosecutor's Office. [[CARMASINE, ZAZALENA, SHIHANOVA]] [[deposit]] Group of National Deputies to the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine on certain questions of judicial practice regarding the application of article 250 of the Ukrainian Master Code in external economic activities. [[DRY, SHUSTIC, AND OTHERS]] Group of National Deputies to the Ministry of Education and Science on the removal of the course of the history of Ukraine from educational plans in higher education institutions. [[JANUKOVICHA, COMARA, KARKAKA]] Mr. Andria PAVLOWSKI to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Supreme Audit Authority of Ukraine, on the verification of violations of current legislation and on the purpose of using the budget allocated to the shore-building work in the village of Seshori in the Kosovo area of Johno-Frankiv. VADIM KLAZNIZENKA to the Attorney General for the lack of action and the inaction of the prosecution for unlawful arrest, beating, torture and persecution by members of the Ukrainian police, Valery and Oleg Plachotniuk. Valentina ZUBOVA to the Attorney General for the examination of the gross violation of legislation on the work of the Head of the National Forestry Committee of Ukraine during the discharge of the post of Chief of the Cerkas Regional Forestry Administration of Anatolia Karpuk. Valentin ZUBOVA to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the use of appropriate criminal investigations into the murder of a resident of the village of Kuchurgan in the Odessa region of Odessa, Olexy Jerebek. Victor SINCHENKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the use of budgetary resources and funds received from paid services in 2006-2009 by the Administration of the Basilk district hospital of Kyiv. Mr. Vladimir PILIPEN to the Attorney General on the identification of the facts of the interrogation of deceased persons, the inclusion of dead persons in witnesses, understood, other facts of the falsification of criminal cases by the Prosecutor General of Ukraine, Galina Klimovic. Eugene KYRILČUKA to the Attorney General on the groundless violation by the Prosecutor’s Office of the Volin Region of the criminal case against officials of the Tax Administration of the State Tax Administration in the Volinsk region and the creation of a visible fight against tax crimes and offences. YEUGENA KARJKOVA to the Attorney General for urgent measures aimed at preventing vandalism over the monument of Vladimir Lenin. ZOY SHISKINO to the Attorney General about the improper treatment and response of the MPs regarding the location and operation of secondary raw materials and car washes on the street of the Decabrist 2a in Kiev. John STATION to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding Ukraine’s nonrefoulement of navigational and hydrographic objects located in the city of Genicek Hersone district, failure to comply with the ruling of the Lord’s Court of the Hersonian Region of the Black Sea Fleet of the Russian Federation. Igor GRINIVA to the Attorney General on the case of the death of Alexander Zolotruc. JERESIAH Igora to the Attorney General regarding the improper examination of parliamentary appeals by the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine. Igor KALETNIKA to the Attorney General for the inappropriate and formal response of the Attorney General’s Office to the facts of open and insolent criminal acts of a particularly dangerous group led by Vladimir Bushanski and Alexander Krukowski, who are at the forefront of large-scale fraud and national property theft by leading a number of businesses to bankruptcy, with the aim of avoiding the payment of taxes for more than 100 million dollars. Irina BELIEF to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the conflict situation between the Fastew City Council and the Fastew District Council in connection with the decision taken by the Fastew District Council to establish a new municipal health facility called the Fastiv Central District Hospital. Caterina VASCHUK to the Attorney-General on gross violations of effective rural legislation by Malý Majak Leonid Malik in the allocation of land to Depeša Plus, Alushta Invest Bud, El Han Crimem, the theft by him of rural council funds, as well as on the conduct of an unknown robbery attack on the premises of the criminal newspaper editor Vasil Fomenk and the inadequate response of law enforcement authorities to the reported facts. [[Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Alastinian Miskrad]] Kseniya LAPINOYA to the Attorney General regarding the non-use of measures by the law enforcement authorities and the formal approach to addressing previous parliamentary references to the situation surrounding the Co-operative Kodimský Agrobód. Mikoli KULČINSKI to the Attorney-General on the catastrophic decline in the population of valuable Aboriginal fish species in Kharkishte, especially in the Redwater Basket, as a result of the activities of the private commercial structure "Association of Users of Water Living Resources in the Kharkiv River Basket". Oleg BILORUS to the Attorney-General for Dissatisfaction with the reply of the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, regarding the inappropriate consideration of the parliamentary appeal of 30 March 2009, regarding the violation by officials, directors of the Eastern European and Regional Development Stock Exchange Banks and the transfer of funds to the private company Erker. [[Bila Church, Tolstoy Street, 36]] Alexander DOUBT to the Attorney General about the fraudulent actions of the former head of the Ishmael branch of the small private enterprise "Leder" Svetlana Chumachenko. Helen BONDARENKO to the Attorney General on the inaction of the Donetsk Interstate Environmental Prosecutor's Office, the prosecutor of Makyivka City, the chief health doctor of Makyivka City, the director of the commune firm Makyivski Vodkanal, which led to an ecological and extraordinary sanitary situation in the village of Červona Hirka M. Makyivka. Mr. Ruslan KNEZEVIĆA to the Attorney General on the inaction of the Prosecutor’s Office in the Cherniewec region. SERGEANT GORDIENKA to the Attorney-General for a superficial and non-objective review of the question of the law enforcement authorities of the Poltava region concerning the unlawful actions of persons who have led to the de facto destruction of the agricultural society with limited responsibility for the "Lan" of the Karlovy region of Poltava. GORDIENKA to the Attorney-General for the protection of the constitutional rights of the head of the farm "Divilla-Agro" Volocí region of the Hmeljna District of the Hope of Goodima and the involvement of officials of the state authorities who carried out illegal actions and contributed to the actual destruction of the farm. SERGEANT PAULENKA to the Attorney General for ensuring an objective investigation into the incident that took place on June 11, 2009, in the village of Dragovo, in the district of Zacarpathia, and for assessing the legality of action during this incident of employees of the Hustian District Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Zakarpatsk region. Ms CRAPOVA to the Attorney-General of Ukraine for ensuring proper legal response to the unlawful actions of officials of the Office of the Prosecutor-General of Ukraine, related to the unlawful commission to carry out search-and-rescue actions against all judges and other officers of the courts of Ukraine, as well as: specifically with regard to the head of the Court of Appeal of Kiev, Anton Chernushenko, and Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, Mr. Milo Melnik. Jury PROKOPČUCA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the gravity of the investigation of a criminal case committed in the course of the deliberate murder of Sergey Slusar, as well as the inappropriate examination of numerous references made to this matter by the Supreme Council Committee of Ukraine on the issue of law enforcement and his brother Yuri Slusar. Jaroslav KENJOR to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the objectivity of the investigation of the criminal case of Mikola Didenko and on the circumstances of the possible order nature of the case. Valeria Baranova and Michael PAPIJEVA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on illegal activities involving large-scale budget spending in the executive branch. Groups of national deputies to the Attorney General of Ukraine on gross violations of legislation in the field of land administration, financial abuse and other offences committed in the city of Buta Kyiv district with the knowledge and support of the mayor, Anatolia Fedoruk. [[PAPIE, LITHUANIA, CUMENA]] Groups of National Deputies to the Attorney General of Ukraine to determine the circumstances of the death of the village of Krasnogirka Golovanov district of Kirovogradi district of Valerija Olijnik. [[STATION, Cyrillic, and others. Total 7 deputies]] Groups of National Deputies to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the illegal actions of the Prosecutors-General of Ukraine during the search and removal of documents in the office of the First Deputy Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Eugene Korniychuk. [[SUSTIQUE, DEEP, AND OTHERS. Total 11 deputies]] Mr. Orobec and Ms. Oksana Bilozir to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the application of measures to abolish decisions of the Žitomir District State Administration on the transfer to and ownership of the members of the Civil Society "Love" of land located on the land of the New Guinean Village Council. Michael Schmidt and Valerija Baranova to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the crimes of the Berdian City Head. OSIKI and Mikhail PAPIJEV to Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine Renata Kuzmin on the illegal actions of officials of the State Administration and State Enterprise International Airport Borispol. Vladimir DANIELEN to the Head of the Sumerian District Administration for the failure of construction work from the reconstruction of House No. 32 to the street. Prokofiev in the city of Suma, which poses a threat to the life and health of the inhabitants of the house. Vladimir CARPUCA to the prosecutor of Kiev City, Head of Kiev City State Administration for the verification of the legality of the actions of officials of the Kyiv City State Administration and the Shevchenkov District State Administration of Kiev in the attempt to seize the premises of Physiotherapy Clinic No. 1 of Kiev City. VYACHESLALA KYRILENKA to the Kiev City Head for the absence of the results of the consideration of the parish of the Holy Virgin Mary of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church of the Kiev Patriarchate for the removal of land for the construction of a church on the street. I. Colossus, 25/A. OLEGO ZARUBINSKI to the head of the Zaporozhye District State Administration for not taking into account the interests of persons with limited physical capacity in the Priazova region of Zaporozhye. Roman ZAZALJECH to the Head of the Mikolai district government regarding the failure to respond to the parliamentary appeal regarding the conservation of the pharmaceutical industry in the Mikolai district. MOSTIPAN’S Ulysses to the Acting Chief of Kiev’s Land Administration for violating the terms of the parliamentary appeal to delay the issuance of relevant documents by Kiev’s Land Administration. Groups of National Deputies to the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General, the Minister of Internal Affairs concerning the organization, with a view to obtaining illegal profits, officials of the DAI Ministry of State of Ukraine, by abuse of office, and private business from the compulsory provision of transport services. [[THE BRAIN, THE SHORT, THE TREATY AND OTHERS]] Jury PROKOPČUKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the improper investigation by officials of the U.S. Mr. Vladimir STRETOVIĆA to the Attorney-General of Ukraine for an unsatisfying examination of the parliamentary request for violations of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine as a result of the deployment in Ukraine of a representative of the International Commercial Arbitration Court at the European Arbitration Chamber, established in Brussels under the legislation of the Kingdom of Belgium. Thus, the honourable colleagues, all the parliamentary inquiries that have been made. Now, dear fellows, I'm going to announce. Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-16-m0.u4	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I ask you to come back and re-vote the Kaletnik MP's request, which deals with a very painful problem: the threat of social fascism. And I'd like to support everyone. This is about very serious things. And I think it's not appropriate for us not to look the truth in the eye today, and yet, supporting this request will give us a chance to figure out again what and how to do, what policies, and what it can lead to. I propose once again to vote on this request to the President, and I ask all my colleagues to support this request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-16-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I will now put to the vote the return to the parliamentary request of Igor Kaletnik to the President of Ukraine for immediate action to ban the activities of neo-fascist organizations that fuel internal political hostility and criminal responsibility of persons involved in criminal activities, such as the act of vandalism in relation to Volodymyr Lenin's monument in Kiev, as well as the repeal of presidential decrees in Ukraine that contribute to Ukraine's further division. I'm voting for a return to the motion. Please vote. [[10:56:28]] For 175 We didn't go back to looking at the request. The factions, please. Region Party – 0, "Club of Timoshenko" – 124, "Our Ukraine-People's Self-Defense" – 4, communists – 27, "Club of Lithuania" -20, non-fractional – 0. Dear colleagues, taking into account the atmosphere in the hall, I missed one request, more specifically the request of Igor Sharov. I put him to a vote of support. 229 deputies supported the referral to the President of the matter. But I didn't put the motion to the President of Ukraine to vote. That's the point. To the President of Ukraine regarding the appeal of the National Exposort of Ukraine to concern about the integrity of this state institution in connection with the Ukrainian Presidential Decree of 2 June 2009 No.379 "Questions of the National Exposort of Ukraine". I'm voting on the request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[10:57:44]] For 224 We didn't make it? I am voting for the return to the vote on Igor Sharov's request. Please vote. [[10:58:10]] For 239. Decision taken. We're back. I'm voting on the request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[10:58:30.]] For 233 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, before we consider Bill 4735-1-P. This is a draft decision calling off the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The National MP, one minute, National Deputy Arjewitin, after we passed the Financing Act, one minute, on the financing of the Euro-2012 Championship, addressed an appropriate letter denying the decision. The committee accordingly considered the bill. And we need to put a draft ruling to the vote. In the event of its non-support, this decision, then all the possibilities for signing this law and sending it to the President of Ukraine will be open. Do you understand the question? Here's Arjevetin, turn the microphone on, please. I'll close now, one more question as we agreed, I'll close it, it's a compromise that we agreed on. I'll close now.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-16-m0.u6	Honorable deputies. Stanislav Arzhewityn, “For Ukraine! ” Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that this bill is essentially not about the Euro-2012, but it's about the 10 billionth edition and the poverty of people through this uncontrolled issue. Thank you very much to the regulatory committee that unanimously supported my proposal to call off this decision. Because according to the Rules of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-16-m0.u7	I'm asking you not to break the "Race" system, let me finish the session, I'm asking you simply. I'll close the session. We've made our decision. Please don't break, I beg you, what are you doing there? I'm putting a draft ruling to the vote, please vote. [[Registration number 4735-1P]] I'll close the session. Please, give me a chance. Once again, I would like to say, Your Honor, 151 members of the People's Parliament have the right to request an extraordinary meeting. Call it in. There was a lot of questions. All the controversial questions were taken away. There is only one left to give way to this Law “On Financing, Preparing for the Euro-2012” and the Second Bill. Just a minute. And the second bill is the ratification of the Agreement in order to complete the construction of the road, which has been allocated 400 million for 30 years under 1 percent of the year. And then close the session. What is the reason for us to do what we do, please say? What is the reason? What else do you want? I want to offer you, please sit down now, and we'll consider raising the living minimum, the minimum wage, let's look at it. Do you want to see it? You don't want to do that right now, so why don't you make 150 signatures, and we'll be happy to consider this law. What an absurd thing to do in the country!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-16-m0.u8	We can't use our hands. We need to make a decision right now - vote with our hands. Do you understand that or not? A decision has to be made. How will you take him now? I'm going to vote again. Dear colleagues, please, let's find a compromise and finish our consideration of these two issues, or we'll have a big seat. Who needs it? To make people laugh? Please, Oleg Laszko, then Katerina Vaschuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-16-m0.u9	Respectable citizens, honourable deputies! The head of the Supreme Council has just said about the loan that's going on -- 400 million. I want the whole country to know which road is being repaired. This is the road from Borispol to Lubnov, where thousands of people die each year. The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development has given 400 million people a year. 30 years under one percent. Nowhere in the world has anyone ever gotten that kind of credit to fix this road right now, save the lives of thousands of people going to Donetsk, Lugansk, Poltava, Dnipropetrovsk, so on. That's why they won't vote. You don't have a conscience! These thousands of people who will die on this road will be on your conscience. Do you understand that or not? Give us a chance to vote! And by the time the construction season is over, we'll have this road repaired by winter. Vote, Vladimir Mikhailovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-16-m0.u10	Unlock the "Council" system. The Lord sees everything! Burn you in Hell for such a thing! Alexander Sergiyovich, unlock the “Radou”. Ephraim leaves for Crimea tomorrow. They don't vote, they don't work, they get compensation, and they go on vacation. From.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-16-m0.u11	Dear colleagues! Of course, the worst option is to continue or repeat negative examples in the work of the highest legislative body. It's not a job. And you can't let a higher legislature down to such a low level. Today we're only talking about the euro here, and we need to talk about what's going on in the village. See, oil grew 17 percent a week. Today, the Agrarian Fund has no funds and maybe Vladimir Mikhailovich, and it's good that we don't vote and the Euro funds won't go. Without “Euro, ” Ukraine will survive. How will she survive without bread? Perhaps the funds will go to the Agrarian Fund and allow you to buy bread from the peasants today. Because we're blind today, we're in such a difficult situation in the country, and we're making bills. Dear colleagues! You know, a lot of your leaders have been resting for a long time on some island, on expensive yachts. Why such sacrilege, such a great deception of the Ukrainian people?Oh, my God! I'd like to sit down and consider another question of how to fill the Agrarian Fund. I've been handed over the papers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-16-m0.u12	Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, if we don't find an understanding here, the hymn won't. I want to tell you right now. I'll close the session, but I won't close the session. Saturday.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-16-m0.u13	That's because you're not letting me do my constitutional duty, that's why. I want to tell you again, dear colleagues, let's be understanding about what's going on. Well, can it adorn you personally, all of us together, and the Supreme Council of Ukraine? Well, you can't read morals, you know that. You understand and you come and you show me the IDs that took your ballot card. You understand that. Well, tell me, what's the excuse for blocking the rostrum now? I said, if this is about adopting a law on subsistence minimum and minimum wage, let's look at it. Come on, I said: we're looking at this law, we're not voting for it, we're blocking the rostrum. I won't go on, we'll go on, we'll sit down. They won't, please tell me what else you need. I offered to vote the usual way, the secret way, the getting up, the other way. Why don't we vote? I'm looking at everyone right now, why don't we vote? What else do you want from this country? What do you want? The fact that the chiefs have called off your command and cannot cancel it is not your decision to make. Please tell us how to move on to life when you are ruining everything that can be destroyed. Why can't we now consider this issue on the euro? What is its political nature? Can we go over the ratification issue, close the normal session? What are the reasons for this? Do you want to bet your own way? So we're going to meet on Saturday, Sunday, Monday, every day. Do you want to do this, make the country laugh and go on? What are the reasons? If the Supreme Council has worked less, if it has been proposed, if we have problems, let everyone in this Supreme Council come: faction leaders, president, prime minister, and we will put every question to the vote. Whether they say "yes" or "against". Why are they running the Supreme Council beyond each other? Why? You understand that well, you come down with your shoulders and you show what you said. Well, after all, we have some basic responsibility to people. Tell me it hasn't been done for you. Tell me it hasn't been done that way? Please tell me it hasn't been done yet. Why do we fight so hard for the people, and we spit on this people from the high court? [[Applause]] . It's delicious, by the way. I want to say again, I'm not closing the session. I'm not closing the session. I want to say it again. We made a deal with you. You kept your mouth shut, didn't say anything. Then they cynically led people who resemble the role of a fighter, not a deputy, but a fighter who breaks down doors where possible. Tell me, where does this happen? In which country is this done? What are you consecrating, smart people all standing up for? Why is this being done? Why is this being done? I won't close. Let's be happy with each other, there's time. Let's sit here together. I'm asking you again. Then you will accuse me, including personally that there is nothing in store for the Euro? Is that what you want? Let's sit down, we're going to be looking at the Housing Minimum Act right now. Come on! Why don't you want to look at it? Because you don't need it. They want to destroy the Supreme Council, lead the situation to absurdity. And then try to take her somewhere else, to the election or something, I don't know. So please, either we compromise, we define two of these decisions, or no one closes anything. They've already crossed that line, and they've drowned everything that can be drowned. Please allow them to turn on the "Council" system.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-16-m0.u14	I want to say it again. I want to say it again. I want to say again, we're going to get together. We'll all come, we'll all come back, we'll all get together. So please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-16-m0.u15	I beg of you, dear fellows, don't be tense. Please. One proposal is to include the "Council" system. Enough with the trampling.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-16-m0.u16	Consider it a requirement. I can imagine what would happen to the country after January 19. Once again, my dear colleagues, please consult with your leaders and let us make our decisions. There'll be no other way. I understand. You can't put it that way. The system's not working. How am I going to put this to a vote? So what do we do? What are you offering me? Sign and correct? That's it. I get it, I get it. So, what do you suggest? When it was the agreement of the two largest factions. What do you want? I vote, what will it give? I know, I've been reading. So we have to decide who will count the votes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-16-m0.u17	Yeah, where's the Counting Commission? I'll close at 12. You could say that I'm going to close at 12. Dear colleagues! I think we're waiting two more minutes, and then I'll close the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Because as long as they connect with the foreign country and negotiate with each other, I think it is a very expensive price for Ukraine. They'll want us to hold another meeting. At 12 o'clock, I remind you, the meeting will be closed. We had an appointment until 19 p.m. yesterday. The meeting. We'll spend another one on Saturday, so don't clap. Or Sunday. I'll close the meeting at 12 o'clock. That's enough waiting.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-16-m0.u18	I'm closing the meeting at 12 o'clock. All of it. Stop bullying the country and everyone. Break to 12:30 A.M.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-16-m0.u19	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats and prepare for further work. As the national deputies enter the session room, I would like to remind you once again that, in accordance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, there is no less than 150 deputies required. Five committees or three factions may make such a proposal, and the initiators determine the list of issues to be considered. Therefore, some national deputies who did not stand next to the Rules would be asked to read the Rules, including the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, after which they would be evaluated. I want to say that I didn't put anything on the schedule for today, and if you had any secret arrangements there and underground, then you, dear colleagues, materialize them in a transparent way in the schedule of the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And once again, don't switch your head to a healthy one, nothing will come of it, and let's get this meeting over with. Yeah, four more minutes now, we're up to 12.30. We will, then, be honourable colleagues, about the agreements that have been reached. It is suggested that we consider such questions. To conclude the review of the draft Decision on the annulment of the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concerning the observations put forward by the national deputy of Arjevetina on the way in which the whole of the Law on the Financing of Preparations, on the financing of preparations for the implementation of Euro-2012 in Ukraine. [[Registration number 4735-1]] The committee considered the issue, adopted the appropriate conclusion, which concerns that the Supreme Council of Ukraine should consider this decision. The second question. On the ratification of the draft Loan Act, a project to improve road traffic and traffic safety between Ukraine and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Finally, the next question. This is Bill 4630, which is proposed to be re-readed, as well as the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2009 on the size of the living minimum and the size of the minimum wage, is registration number 4557, for which it is also proposed to vote on the second reading. This is an agreed position for us to close this session after making appropriate positive decisions. Is there no objection to such order of action? If not, dear colleagues, we are continuing our consideration of the draft Decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Registration number 4735-1-P]] National Deputy Arzvetin Stanislaw Mikhailovich, please finish your statement. You've got three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-16-m0.u20	Honorable MPs, distinguished voters. Once again, it's not about the Euro-2012, but it's about the emissions, the uncontrolled emissions of 10 billion dollars, and I think that this uncontrolled emissions and our citizens need to know will have unforeseeable consequences. That's what I'd like to stress in general about this decision. Next. Ladies and gentlemen, among other things, a similar conclusion was made by the National Bank of Ukraine and made scientific expertise and public organizations working on the financial market of Ukraine. The other one. I would like to remind members that by this decision we have actually put at risk the return of the population through the People's Investment Guarantee Fund. Because by this decision, we have removed the rule that the National Bank should direct 25 percent of its spending surpluses to the Population Investment Guarantee Fund every year. We stopped it today. And our 150,000 dollars we've talked about are now at risk because we've removed our previously accepted standards. Third. I would like to point out that the perpetrators of these funds and the arrangers of these funds will now be those organizations that are determined by the Cabinet of Ministers in agreement with the committee. I think you all know, in accordance with the rules of the Constitution, that these functions are the state budget where we should look at you and not someone should define the list. Four. Why 10? Why not 15? Why not 5? There are no calculations at all. There's no socio-economic effect on this kind of implementation. Next. What happens to the 2010 budget that we actually want to use now? Even this bill does not agree with the Cabinet of Ministers. And you know it's his mandate to make changes to the Budget Act. So, honourable deputies, especially those who will not vote in favour of my decision, I would like to remind you that you are consciously making decisions to make our people more impoverished. Because 10 billion, that's what's going to lead to uncontrolled emissions, which is going to lead to higher prices and, most importantly, less money. So I ask you very, very much, think about it, honourable deputies, before you support or refuse to support my decision. I thank the regulatory committee for their unanimous support. In fact, I told you. And once again, I am also behind the Euro-2012, but not in a way where our people are going to be poorer. And I'm also asking you to think before I support my decision or not to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-16-m0.u21	Thank you. Please, from the Committee, Alexander Sergiyovich, head of the Committee on Rules, MPs, and the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-16-m0.u22	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, dear colleague! At its meeting on 8 July, the Committee considered the matter. Our colleague, Arjevitin, acted within the framework of the Rules and was granted such a right to act. Therefore, what we are considering today in this Chamber is the very right action of Parliament. And we will have to determine here whether we support our colleague Arzhevitina's point of view or not, it is only Parliament's right to do so. Your decision will now depend on whether or not the order enters into force. If we support the Order of Arzhevitina, then the Order will not take effect if we support the Order of Arzhevittina, it means the Order that we have previously adopted, or the Law that has previously passed, it will enter into force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-16-m0.u23	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Have a seat. Can we put it to a vote? Please, on the basis of the vote, Paul Zebrowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-16-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, I'd like to support Stanislav Arjevetin and actually highlight a few things. First, the National Bank Act makes it clear that the excess of income over expenditure should be paid equally in the following year after the closure of the budget. In the first quarter, we approached payments from the National Bank and the uneven part, and in February we used them to close the budget holes. Today, we want to regain this year's income has not yet been determined. Thus, it seems that after January 1, the country is not going to live. No one is against Euro-2012, all over Euro-2012. However, this way to manage money not made, but most likely by emissions, it's harmful for the whole economy of the state. This will not start the economy of the state, it will only allow all citizens of Ukraine to be impoverished. I urge everyone not to live in debt but to live on the money he earns.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-16-m0.u25	Others Have Warnings? People's deputy, Pecklusenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-16-m0.u26	Dear colleagues, we would like to thank you for accepting our proposal and for agreeing to vote in favour of what is expected of us is a law that raises wages and pensions. In this regard, we believe that the law that will unlock the Euro-2012 programme is precisely what the Party of the Regions insists on. This will make it possible to work and pay. In this regard, Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, we release a resource of five billion. I request 500 million dollars from this resource. The “Zaporozian Bridges” is an object that is on the road to every honest people's MP. I request that my law and the Ripper be included on the agenda today and that I vote in favour of the Zaporozhye Bridges facility.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-16-m0.u27	Dear colleagues, what are some other warnings? You don't? I put to the vote a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[May I have your attention, please?]] The Supreme Council of Ukraine decrees: to repeal the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine since first July 2009 on the adoption as a whole as a bill amending the laws of Ukraine on the State Budget for Ukraine 2009 and on the National Bank of Ukraine since 30.06.2009. [[Registration number 4735-1]] And secondly, this decision takes effect from the day it was adopted. Please vote. [[12:36:35]] For-72 The decision is not taken. So the law will be signed and sent to the President of Ukraine for his consideration. Dear colleagues, now it's a matter of ratification. Draft Law on the Ratification of the Loan Agreement between Ukraine and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. [[Registration number 0133]] Please tell me, is there a need to report on this law? Nobody insists? I won't. That's when I vote. The committee's decision is positive, all documents are properly drafted. Therefore, if you have no objection, I am voting on the proposal to approve the draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Loan Agreement between Ukraine and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. [[Registration number 0133]] Please vote. [[12:37:54]] For 411 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the features of bank financial recovery measures is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 4630]] In view of the fact that the committee continues to work on this law, since there is a letter from the committee of profile not to make a final decision, you will be asked to re-read the draft law, registration number 4630. Is there no objection? No one insists on the performance? I can't see. I would like to vote on the proposal to re-read the draft Law amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts on the features of the financial recovery measures. [[Registration number 4630]] Please vote. [[12:39:16]] For 399 Decision taken. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2009 is being announced for consideration. [[on the minimum cost of living and the minimum wage]] [[Registration number 4557]] I would like to report to you, Mr. President, that in view of the fact that, after the adoption of the law, a working group composed of representatives of the Supreme Council, as well as the Cabinet of Ministers, and that so far there is a complex and painful process of harmonization of the basic parameters of this law, such a proposal has been made which is proposed to your consideration, to correct this law for a second reading and to assign to the government, together with the committee, the necessary indicators for the final decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on this issue. No objections? No one insists on the performances? I am voting on the proposal to re-read the draft Act amending the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2009 on the size of the living minimum and the size of the minimum wage. Registration number 4557, please vote. Here comes the vote, please. Well, I am, now, just a minute. [[12:40:51]] For 419 Decision taken. What? [[B in m in s a l in]] No, that's it, that's it. Dear colleagues, with regard to the suggestions of colleague Pecklesenko, the point is that the agreements that have been reached are implemented. Because now the MPs are all coming along and offering to make the right decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-16-m0.u28	Well, you can't take it. [[B in m in s a l in]] It won't be accepted. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I offer you, if there is the will of the Supreme Council, we may not close our jobs and work. [[B in m in s a l in]] Just a minute. If we have any immediate questions, we can gather together and consider all these suggestions in the strictest possible time. According to the second part of article 9 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I declare the fourth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to be closed. [[The Moon of the Hymn of Ukraine]] .
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-16-m0.u29	Ladies and gentlemen, may I remind you that according to the calendar of the fourth session, we continue to work on committees and districts today. I would ask the deputies to remember that. According to article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the fifth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will begin its work on Tuesday, September 1, 2009. And to the end. Today is the birthday of the National Deputies. Let's not deviate from tradition, let's welcome them. And on this note of tranquillity, we're going to finish the job. Bondarenka Viktor Viktorovich, Kaljetnik Igor Grigorovich and Yanukovic Viktor Viktorovich. [[Applause]] Thus, the honourable colleagues, and the session, and the next session I declared closed. Thank you!
