ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national MPs! Visitors and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Council" system. [[10:01:18]] [[Registration of Ukrainian National Deputies]] Cards were registered in the 425 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues! Today is the birth of Ukrainian national deputies: Fesenko Leonida Ivanovich, who was 60 years old. Let's say hello. [[Applause]] Danilova Vitalia Bogdanovich, Dental Valentina Sergiyovich, Plotnickova Olesia Vitaliyovich and Shevchenka Andry Vitaliyovich. [[Applause]] We welcome our colleagues, and we want strong health and productive results in our work. I now give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary on June 9, 2009. 13 issues of the agenda have been considered. The result was that two laws, eight bills were adopted on the basis of which one bill was intended for re-reading, and four bills were rejected. Dear National Deputies! In accordance with article 25 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, 30 minutes are allocated on Wednesday for public speaking. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the speech. Please put on the board the names of the national MPs who sign up for the performances. Martinenko Mikola Volodymyrovich, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Who will act? So from the rostrum, but from the rostrum. Who? People's MP Kirilo Kulikov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u2	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, Your Honor, Your Honor, I want to address you, I think this is a terrible mistake. Today, there was a question in the agenda regarding the report of the Interim Investigation Commission, which we decided with you on Friday, and I had to report on the decision that was made with changes in the decision of the Supreme Council. Before making my draft decision, I held a temporary commission of inquiry, we discussed the issue of this decision, and I, as Ukraine’s national deputy, as the subject of the legislative initiative, made this decision and registered it with the Supreme Council. Yesterday, after the Conciliation Council, this issue was the first one on the agenda today. Dear colleagues, I would like to say that today there are many entrepreneurs, many people, many people with disabilities who have come here to say that this is no longer possible in Kiev. Not many reasons are clear yesterday, but it is the Constitutional Court's decision to extend the term of office of an active Kiev city head. [[I can't comment on this decision.]] I think it's not just a decision. This decision will kill the capital city of Ukraine, the city of Kiev. That's why I'm addressing you, distinguished national MPs, and I consider the issue of taking a decision on the decision of the interim commission of inquiry immediate. So I'm asking your position on the inclusion of this issue tomorrow in the first order, the first question in the agenda. That's the first one. The other one. Today the issue is the adoption of the Law on the Delimitation of Powers of the Kiev City Head. And we must adopt this law because we will make ourselves a dragon that will eat us all. No matter what he sings, no matter what he says, it's very important what he does. And if it goes on for four years we're going to lose Kiev, we're going to lose the capital. I want to turn to the two biggest political parties, and I understand that today you have a very important support for people. So I think the support of 5 million kyans is the most important thing for you, and the kyans will never forget those who voted against them. Once again I demand that this issue be included first, it is included, but putting it first on the agenda on Thursday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u3	Sergey Greenewecki will be followed by Anatoly Kirilovich Kinach.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u4	Dear Mr. Head! Deputies! Convinced that if our politicians sincerely believed in God, they would realize that at festivals, especially on the Trinity, we should not make meaningful political decisions. This was in 2007, when, under the terms of the fight against political corruption on the night of the Trinity, they agreed to bypass the Constitution through the early parliamentary elections, which eventually turned into another political crisis. This has been the case for today’s festivals. It is good that we recognize God, but it is bad that God knows what we are doing! Even then, it was about political relevance, not political goals. Perhaps society would be supportive if the debate developed around specific issues: the restoration of the viability of the banking system, the overcoming of the crisis of payment balance, the low competitiveness of domestic production, the support of small and medium -sized businesses, and the provision of a boost to domestic education and science. But that didn't happen! We were offered only a culturally prepared change to the structure of power, adapted to the needs of specific politicians and far from democratic principles. As they say, slogans are written “in white” and things are done “in black”. Moreover, no political person, no institution of authority, can act as guarantor of the implementation of not only agreements but also of approved laws. This is the logical result of evolution, and more specifically, the degradation of power. Today, the parties offer a broad view of who was right. But this exchange of courtesies once again shows that two truths that do not trust each other give rise to a great state lie. Lying, like corruption, is the foundation of national politics and a tool of government. The negotiators say that they are open to a new dialogue. But will people believe it, especially when there is so little time left for presidential elections. So the main conclusion that we can draw from today’s situation. That way of developing the political system that was chosen in 2004 is wrong. This is a dead end from which neither civilised open negotiations nor conspiracies can come out. So to take a step forward, you need to give up the election system as soon as possible for closed party lists, as one that has discredited itself. And the changes to election legislation should be made by today’s Supreme Council. You and I need to set a constitutional date for the President's election, adopt the Presidential Election Act, implement the single voter register system, clearly determine the date of the election to the local councils, city, village and village heads, especially after the Constitutional Court's decision yesterday. I think that's what this is going to be all about. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u5	Anatoly Kirilovich Kinach, faction of the Party of the Regions. Please. Alexander Pecklesenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u6	Dear National Deputies! Respectable compatriots! It's clear that the Ukrainian people, the economy, the state are becoming even more hostages not only of the disgraceful opposition in power, of adventure, of the lack of responsibility, but of the state today, in fact, covered with the dirty roof of cynicism, of lies, of misinterpreting facts from the perspective of the real socio-economic situation in the state. Ukraine is today the only state on the European continent that has to date no approved national anti-crisis programme as joint action programmes of the government, the National Bank and where Parliament is needed. In fact, to this day we see once again as a confirmation of the inefficiencies of the irresponsibility of power, the absence in Parliament of a bill on amendments and additions to the 2009 State Budget, the formulation of monetary and monetary policy, which further deepens the crisis in the state. Against this background, the unprecedented exacerbation of legal nihilism, pinching, corruption at all levels and the virtually inequitable human resources policy, which is based on the principles of its own-foreign, the struggle for portfolios or access to resources. It's very serious that today, in fact, the government has officially banned the publication of real data from the socio-economic development of the state, which practically overshadows both the possibility of working on an anti-crisis strategy, and severely destroys the level of confidence in Ukraine by both investors and partners. Ukraine is the only state on the European continent, including the SND, that has not produced any data on gross domestic product. Independent experts give the drop rate for the first four months at least 21 percent. It's an unprecedented fall that has no parallel in the world's economies. Similar approaches to the state of the accounts of the State Department, a direct ban on the economics of publishing data without agreement with the State. This lie, this unprecedented cynicism, is going to end, because after this sharp further decline in the standard of living of citizens, the impoverishment of the entire Ukrainian people. We demand this session of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine's report on the state's real socio-economic situation on the basis of a severe depoliticized diagnosis of the approval of the anti-crisis programme, along with changes and additions to the 2009 budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u7	Vadim Koleschenko, faction of the Party of Regions instead of Alexander Pecklesenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u8	Respectable citizens of Ukraine, colleagues! I want to recall what democracy is. It's not what's written on the wall. This is the condition of a person who is willing to limit his rights where the rights of another person begin. And in this context, I would warn those who say: I am a real patriot of Ukraine, I am a Democrat. Under this scope, the rights of the vast majority of Ukrainian citizens are being violated. Because in our democratic country, it is the indigenous population of 8 million ethnic Russians, 14 million Russian-speaking citizens, for whom the Russian language is native, today there is a ban on the native Russian language. In this democratic Supreme Council, listen more! 80 laws prohibiting the use of mother tongue. Today, there is the term “Vakarchukovščina” because today, illiterate people are writing unlettered bills in Ukrainian. The rights of those who hold these deputies are restricted by their wages and taxes. And if we are indeed a democratic Power, and if we truly respect human rights, we must understand and realize that Ukraine is diverse in its languages and culture. And only the unity of the country is possible in its diversity, is it our wealth, which we have to support, fly and pass on to our descendants. Viktor Janukovic said in his statement yesterday that we can begin today to make fundamental changes in our lives even without affecting the Constitution, we can now adopt more than 30 bills that are adapting to the democratic use of native Russian and national minorities in Ukraine. To finally unite our Power, where human rights are above all. The Party of the Regions has always endured the will of the electorate to ensure our integration. Today we declare that we are going forward, we are going to celebrate the victory for the future of our State in order to protect human rights in the mother tongue, in history, in the Canonic Orthodox Church, so that we can be united, not just those who wear the Ukrainian embroidered shirt and accuse the rest of the people. And think about it, 80 percent of the people inside the family use Russian as their own language, but that's not our wealth. Therefore, we are for our wealth and prosperity in Ukraine in unity and diversity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u9	Boris Dach passes the right to speak to Akimimovi College, a faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u10	Dear colleagues, the last week we have continued to have a political struggle, which has grown from day to day and has gone dark, compared with constitutional changes, such important issues as budget change, we have never received a budget. Another issue that has also gone dark is the recapitalization of the banking sector. So far, there are no reliable signals that the capacity to pay our banking sector has been restored, that trust in it has been fully restored, and that the real sector has received real credit. This depends on economic recovery, employment retention, and wage retention. Let's look at the facts. Fact number one. First, the flow of population contributions has slowed, but the flow of legal entities'contributions continues. Our real businesses are taking their money out of banking institutions, completely taxed with high taxes. Since the beginning of the crisis, since October last year, the banking sector has already lost 90 billion bracelets. There is a growing share of the problem credits of commercial banks. It is now estimated at about 15-20 per cent. There is a deepening problem with bank capacity, and a temporary administration has been introduced in 13 banks, thus blocking deposits and any other claims made by creditors. Most importantly, credit activity in the banking sector has declined steadily since the beginning of the year, with almost 20 billion bracelets. What is further of concern is that there have recently been risks of accumulation of problem credits in the National Bank itself. If the financing of our gas accounts by the National Bank continues, by the end of the year we will ask: “Is it not boring to recapitalize the National Bank?” To date, the Cabinet of Ministers has not approved a final list of banks for recapitalization. I remind you that the procedure itself takes at least two months after the approval. The question arises, “Will we be recapitalized in the autumn?” We therefore need to return immediately and consider the Commercial Bank Recapitalisation Act, which has been submitted by a party of regions to Parliament. It is a solid basis for unlocking this process. Recapitalization must begin immediately, depending on the state of the economy and the state of wages and jobs for our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u11	Edward Prutnik gives the word to Rybuku, a faction of the Party of the Regions. The next one will be Humenjuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u12	Deputy Ribukh, faction of the Party of the Regions, Zitomirščina, deputy head of the Committee of Agrarian Politics. Dear colleagues, much of the information goes to society, but lately, with regard to agriculture, the agro-industry complex, it is as if it were before death, as if before a storm. I imagine now that the harvest is about to begin, they're going to be crumbling like the 40-populists who are once again gathering some crazy crop there. First of all, on behalf of the Party of the Regions, I would like to warn and ask all the populists, especially those who met with the Presidents, to go from the ruling coalition: stop publishing the commercial secret of the agricultural producer! It's his business how much grain he made, and don't knock down the prices! And that's what I say loudly to the whole state on the eve of the agricultural exhibition that will open tomorrow. And I can imagine how the government officials in charge of the Prime Minister will be talking tomorrow about what huge achievements in agriculture. Of course, you can tell that we've already become a definitive raw material supplement for grain production, sold for half price 25 million. A ton of grain instead of developing its own animal life. Of course, you have to say tomorrow that the government has decided to purchase almost four million tons of meat from abroad, finally destroying the animal kingdom and the 5.5 million. The people who do animal farming. Of course, you have to say that there's a lot of dairy on the window right now, and there's a 750 million peasants. They haven't received any donations yet. Of course, you have to say that sugar beet, sugar, and government-promised 740 dollars per hectare of sugar beet has not yet been allocated, and much else needs to be said. And what I'm saying is, as far as the agrarian committee is concerned, we are. Last week, eight drafts were passed and exactly from the opposition, just from the Party of Regions and Co-owners, and we are the authors of these bills. But I want to warn representatives from the coalition, and especially from the Butt, that we need to go to committee meetings, and at least to vote for the bills that the government is proposing. And you even sometimes come and vote against it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u13	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u14	So I'm going to say it's an ad. Today, at 2.30 p.m., the committee will also consider a number of very important bills. If the ruling coalition does not visit, we will enlighten and announce you in this rostrum and in the newspaper "Village News" and not only to let the villagers know who our heroes are. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u15	Viacheslav Kirilenko has the floor. The right to speak is handed over to him by the People's Deputy Humenjuk, the faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u16	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “For Ukraine! ” Honorable Colleagues and Honorable Voters! Together we managed to stop the constitutional conspiracy. But what I want to say is that it's not the credit of any of the leaders, it's not the credit of any of the parties that have agreed, but it's the merit of journalists who have made this society secretive and informed about it, and it's the merit of millions of Ukrainians who have expressed their firm protest against the intent of constitutional conspiracy and the usurpation of power by essentially two political and financial clans. But society has received a lot of interesting information during this process. First, BUT and the Party of Regions confirmed the secret underground negotiations. Secondly, BUTT and the Party of Regions confirmed the content of secret underground negotiations. And thirdly, both BUT and the Party of Regions confirmed the intention to continue working in the same direction and in the same key. In view of this, the parliamentary group “For Ukraine!” and the public movement “For Ukraine!” calls on all people who care about these processes to remain vigilant, since the parties to the constitutional conspiracy have not reached any fundamental conclusions, but, on the contrary, two days in advance, confirm their commitment to the direction that has already been taken into arms. In view of this, we once again report that, under any circumstances, we will continue to do everything we can to ensure that no one else ever intends to take away the last right of people -- to choose the head of state. And separately and further, I want to say that we are convinced that the institution of the President of Ukraine is a guarantee of the sovereignty, territorial integrity and State independence of Ukraine, but only if this institution is chosen not by the oligarchs in Parliament, but by the Ukrainian people regardless of the views of the vast number of Ukrainian people who go to elections. So in this fight, we didn't fight for someone or anyone -- we fought for the Ukrainians' right to choose power. And so far together, this right has been upheld. And finally. Of course, the Ukrainian invention is a way to combat the economic crisis by making changes to the Constitution. That way he showed his incompetence, and he only caused irony in the country and in the world. Therefore, the parliamentary group “For Ukraine!” calls for this week to focus – and continue – on economic bills: the opposition government, the functioning government and the normal parliamentary bills that are really directed against the crisis. In this regard, we urge all parties today to vote in favour of our bills to support small businesses. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u17	Roman Zvaric is handing over the right to speak to Anatoly Kirilenko, isn't he? Sorry, Anatoly Stepanovich Grizzenka, faction “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u18	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I wanted to raise one very important question about the fight against corruption. There is no doubt that this disgraceful phenomenon has long since become a national security issue, has paralysed virtually all levels of government, all branches of government, and today I want to pay attention, the President has two days left to make a very important decision. Whether he will sign the Law 3428 that we have adopted, or whether he promises it. Reminding me, this law provides for a dramatic increase in criminal responsibility for all government officials by $10,000 and more than 15 years, and for the prosecutor, the judge, and the life imprisonment. This law was voted in favour of 364 deputies, all five factions. I want to speak to the President publicly so he doesn't make a mistake. I don't know about his decision, but the fact that he doesn't sign and hangs on to the last allows officials every day to continue to humiliate the state, to humiliate people. I'd like to, if Victor Andryovich has any doubts about whether to sign or not, if he's at home to include a video recording here in 2005, when we were all inspired and when we talked about hands that weren't going to be beautiful. I would like the President to make a judgmental decision and turn green light on the decisive opposition to corruption and bribery, and not even encourage those hands that have not yet been stolen to resort to bribery. I hope for a wise decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u19	National Deputy Steshenko, faction of the Timoshenko Yulia Block. Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u20	Dear Head! Dear colleagues! Dear voters! First. Regrettably, our political power has been forced to say that last week, a test of political maturity was not carried out. Individual politicians are not prepared to assume the responsibility of putting national interests ahead of their political goals. As a result, I lost Ukraine. The other one. I would like to remind everyone: the society, the colleagues in Parliament, that Yulia Tymoshenko's Block has done everything possible to bring all the political forces together in order to overcome the severe financial and economic crisis that has hit our country and its citizens in pain. As early as the fall of the year, Prime Minister Yulia Timoshenko urged all political forces to forget the elections and do their utmost to save Ukraine’s economy and to help society. Our position remains unchanged today — there is no alternative to uniting efforts for the country. Third. The Constitution in Ukraine needs to be changed. Its mechanisms are a major cause of chaos and, in fact, a two - power system. What do we propose? First of all, it's a real decentralization of power. The center is overloaded with authority, and this is why we have exhausted wartime cousins for power, and in places that only suffer. We need to eliminate the district, district governments, and create our own executive authorities on local councils, eliminating unnatural opposition. We also propose to provide local authority with real weights and resources. I want to remind you that the Prime Minister has already taken the first concrete steps in this direction. And now there are bills in Parliament that envision a significant expansion of rights and financial opportunities in local councils. Next. A fundamental reform of the judiciary, including the selection of judges, especially at the local level. We want to become a democratic country, so the independence of the judiciary must be an undeniable priority. The language in our project on the depoliticization of courts, as well as the CBC, the Constitutional Court. Four. Our political power and our leader are convinced that Ukraine should be the European Parliamentary Republic. And all government activity must be clearly controlled by the legislative body. In our draft changes to the Basic Law, the unique authority in this connection is precisely for opposition. Fifth. The Yulia Timoshenko bloc has not offered or is not the initiator of the President's election to Parliament. Nor do we offer any moratoriums on the holding of elections to the highest legislative body. Six. Nothing will change in Ukraine's presidential election unless its political system is reformed. It is not clear that total absolute victory will not occur unless suddenly a constitutional or at least a simple majority in the Supreme Council. And the crisis, multiplied by political opposition, is gaining ground today. So we still have to agree on everything right now, on the beach, not after the January massacre in the ruins.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u21	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u22	Once again, we have to agree on everything right now, on the shore, not after the January massacre on the ruins that will already be unstoppable to any living person. To negotiate and unite, we are open and ready for the country, I emphasize once again! Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u23	Hanna Herman's last speech, faction of the Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u24	Friends! Viktor Yanukovic's statement that he is going to the national presidential elections is, of course, the victory of democracy. I don't know if all the deputies in this room will agree with me, but I'm sure all the journalists here support that. In victory, we know a lot of "parents": today the President claims that thanks to him, Julia Volodymyrna claims it is because of her, but it doesn't matter. The main thing is that this victory has been won. And now we have to think about how to avoid another bulwark! How to make sure that the President does not come again, forgive me for this word, the Prime Minister, and the Prime Minister for not swearing again on what the world stands on and for the new war not to erupt in the country. So the process must continue. The process of negotiations, as a colleague of BUT said here, must continue, but we must insist that this process is transparent. And the Party of Regions should insist on this, and the Yulia Block of Tymoshenko, because it was Julia Timoshenko who was standing on Maidan for democracy and it must be very principled here and not agree to any secret negotiations. We must continue the process, make it accessible to the public, and people react very quickly, and politicians will immediately understand what can and cannot be done. And one more thing. Today, we must consider all of us together to shorten the deadline for the election campaign. I'm not taking this initiative from the faction of the Regions, because we haven't made this decision yet, but this idea has already been discussed in our faction, by reducing the campaign, we're going to get the economy of money, the economy of time, and we're not going to let candidates spill too much dirt on each other, because people already know who will be president of Ukraine, people have already made the decision, and now we have to get there quickly. Thank you for your attention and welcome to the victory of democracy.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u25	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the speech is over. Now for the suggestions made in the presentations. Dear colleagues, obviously, we had the only right position if, after the events that took place, everyone was silent, realizing that they had fallen in love, and now they were trying to accuse each other, to keep quiet, to make the right conclusions. In order to do that, we have to obviously associate with the people in the constituencies next week. So there's going to be a draft decree to change the calendar plan so that next week the Supreme Council of Ukraine will work in the districts and we'll explain to people what we need to do. And I'd like to ask you to support this proposal. Next. Regarding the speech of our colleague Kulikov, chairman of the Temporary Investigation Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, let's go this way and close this question. Thursday for the fact that this will be a decision not to be made by the head of the commission, the secretary of the commission, and this will be the decision of the Temporary Special Commission in the form of a draft decision, we will bring it to the consideration of the Supreme Council and in accordance with the decision of the Supreme Council and the Supreme Council will only make the right decision on this issue. Is there no objection? Then they agreed. The other one. It is clear that the Supreme Council of Ukraine needs to be determined as to our further actions in connection with the Constitutional Court’s decision that the temporary elections mean that people elected in the temporary elections will work on a certain term. Clearly, this will bring great disorganization into the country’s life. Understandably, by this time more than a thousand temporary elections had taken place, imagine what would happen if local princes tried to hold a temporary election in separate territories to kill themselves in power permanently. Therefore, the Supreme Council must make an adequate decision. The proposals are now being handled by the relevant services of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I would like to ask to be part of this legal committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Committee on Public Administration. With regard to the report of the Cabinet of Ministers and the adoption of changes to the budget. A proposal from the Party of Regions, with which Anatoly Kirilovich Kinakh spoke. Dear colleagues, we have agreed with you that at the next plenary meeting, the Supreme Council of Ukraine should consider the main directions of budgetary policy. Before that, she has to hear a report on the implementation of the budget in 2008, information on the progress of implementation of the budget this year, as well as the basic principles of monetary policy. I think that after this approach, we will see more clearly what we need to do next in the decision-making plan at the level of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I would ask for such an action algorithm to support it. Regarding other suggestions that have been made, I ask the secretariat to prepare appropriate assignments. Now we have every reason to move on to our work on Wednesday’s schedule. No objections? Dear colleagues, and another offer. We have 21 questions to consider at this morning's meeting, so either we have to work without interruption until 15 o'clock, or you can support the offer, please! – that we should consider the reduced procedure with the appropriate decisions. No objections? I am voting on this proposal: the consideration of bills under reduced procedure. Please vote. [[10:39:13]] For 193 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I'm approached by deputies and they say that under the walls of the Supreme Council, and we've seen this with you, there are a lot of people, including transportation. I'm talking to the people who came to the Supreme Council of Ukraine: we understand you, we share your position. As for the report, and the main decision on the outcome of the report of the Interim Investigation Commission on Kiev, tomorrow the Supreme Council of Ukraine will consider this decision. With regard to all the other issues that people are facing, we will respond adequately to them with appropriate decision-making.” Will such information be sufficient? I am announcing a draft law on the ratification of the Consular Convention between Ukraine and the Republic of Belarus. The rapporteur is Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr. Alexander Mihajlovich. Please, Alexander Mikhailovich. Coroner from the committee. Who will act? Oleg Grigorovitch is already here, Oleg Grigorovitch will be speaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u26	Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies, is being brought to your attention by the draft Law on the Ratification of the Consular Convention between Ukraine and the Republic of Belarus. The Consular Convention's approval is prompted by the need to improve the effectiveness of consular institutions in protecting the rights and interests of individuals and legal entities outside Ukraine. Unlike the multilateral Vienna Convention on Consular Relations of 1963, of which Ukraine and the Republic of Belarus are parties, the two - way Consular Convention extends the powers of consular officials. The provisions of this convention provide, inter alia, that in the event that a citizen of the State to be represented in the State of residence cannot protect his or her rights and interests in connection with his or her absence in the State of residence or for other reasons, the Consular Person may, without any confidence, represent him in the courts and other organs of the State of residence or ensure his or her proper representation until he has appointed his or her representative or will be able to defend himself his or her rights and interests. The Convention also establishes that the competent authorities of the state of residence in the shortest term, but not later than four days after the arrest, arrest or any other restriction on the freedom of a citizen of the crediting State, shall notify the relevant consular official, and shall ensure the exercise of the right of the consular official to visit or contact such citizen, including in order to provide him with the necessary legal assistance. At the same time, in accordance with the provisions of the Consul Convention, persons enjoy full privileges and immunities as diplomatic agents in accordance with the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations of 61. The bill was accepted without notice by all interested ministries and offices in Ukraine. Ratification of the Consular Convention will not require material and other expenses from the State Budget of Ukraine. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u27	Thank you, sit down, please. Oleg Grigorovich is head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u28	The honourable head, honourable national deputies, the Committee on Foreign Affairs has carefully considered the draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Consular Convention between Ukraine and the Republic of Belarus and recommends it before the adoption of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Unlike the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations of April 24, 63, of which both Ukraine and Belarus are parties, the above-mentioned Consular Convention significantly expands the functions of consular officials, privileges, privileges and immunities in the exercise of their powers. This expands the field of cooperation. The Convention will enhance the effectiveness of consular institutions in protecting the rights and interests of Ukraine’s natural and legal persons abroad. Ratification of the bilateral Consular Convention between Ukraine and Belarus will not require material spending from Ukraine’s State Budget. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine supports the ratification of the said convention. The draft law was considered by the Rules Committee, which noted that the documents did not indicate who was signing the Consular Convention on behalf of the State of Ukraine. Nor has the President been given the power to give full authority to those who have to do so. signing. In summary, the Committee recommends that the Supreme Council ratify the draft Law on the Consular Convention between Ukraine and the Republic of Belarus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u29	Dear colleagues, there are no warnings that we will approve this document? Adam Martinyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u30	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich and his distinguished colleagues, taking advantage of the opportunity, I want to draw attention to what we really are doing in the right way. Look, in February of this year, the convention was signed, and it's already come to the ratification of the Supreme Council. I call on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to do the same thing, because sometimes we look at, ratify documents that are 5 years old, 10 years old, and so on and so forth. So I approve of the initiative of the Ministry, which was quickly introduced and I offer everyone the kindest support for this agreement, the convention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u31	Vladimir Yavorowski’s microphone
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u32	Vladimir Yavorowski, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. Before Adam Ivanovich said, I would also like to add another nuance of why we should vote in favour of this document. It is just encouraging to say that our Slovenian neighbour, Belarus, is moving today in a democratic direction, very many of the questions and warnings that were both before the Belarusian President and the Belarusian authorities and that for Ukraine, this is also one of the very illustrative examples that Belarus, which was much closer to Russia, for example, was about the formation of one common state, today and Lukashenko is claiming its movement towards the full, so to speak, independence, full independence of his country. That's why I'd like to welcome the Belarusian people to our cousin, and that's why he's still going on a very normal European civilisation path. Because of that, Yulia Timoshenko Block will vote in favour of ratifying this document.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u33	Yuri Karmazin, faction “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u34	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Reverend Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I am pleased to vote in favour today, but I would like to express my firm "against" because we have no idea in the documents we have given us who signed the agreement for Ukraine, who signed the agreement for the Republic of Belarus. I will strongly oppose and urge the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine to change the practice provided for in article 49 of this article so that we do not have more in the future. Since it is written here, I quote, after the second paragraph, where the convention takes effect and the convention is denunciation, it reads: “It was done in Chernig on 20 January 2009 in two copies, each in Ukrainian and Russian. All texts have the same force. [[Dot]] In the event that differences arise in the interpretation of the provisions of this convention, the contracting parties will be guided by the text of the Russian language.” So how is this “the same power, ” my dear? Therefore, I would ask that such things be avoided, that they should not be humiliated, that the status of the Ukrainian State should not be humiliated anywhere, including in the documents. That's the first one. And the second. I would like to ask the Ukrainian national deputies to produce clear documents, where it is written, who signed it, so that we can know which of the officials allows such things. In general, I believe that this convention will contribute to further strengthening the relationship between Ukraine and Belarus. And we now see the complexity of the economic relationship between Belarus and other neighbouring countries. I am convinced that such difficulties will never arise in Belarus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u35	Dear colleagues, no one insists on discussing any more? As for the offer of Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin. She is right, there is a request to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to provide complete information about persons who have signed a document. They will continue to register with the Supreme Council of Ukraine for such information. Therefore, honourable colleagues, I am voting on the proposal of the Committee on the Adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Consular Convention between Ukraine and the Republic of Belarus. Registration number 0129. Please vote. [[10:50:00]] For 342 Decision taken. A draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Great Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya on legal aid in civil and criminal matters is being introduced. [[Registration number 0130]] And the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Great Socialist People's Republic of the Arab Jamahiriya on the transfer of convicted persons. 0131. The rapporteur is Justice Minister Onichuk Mikola Vasilovich. The focal point is the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of Belarus, Oleg Grigorovitch. I'm asking you for two documents at once.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u36	The Honorable Head of the Supreme Council! Dear National Deputies! Your view is proposed by two laws on the ratification of the Treaties signed on April 8, 2008, in Tripoli, the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, particularly me, to carry out the orders given in the established law. The first ratification law applies, inter alia, to the Agreement between Ukraine and the Great Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya on legal assistance in civil and criminal matters. I should point out that today our state does not have legal relations with Libya in this area, and given that since Soviet times and, in fact, today, there are an officially large number of Ukrainian citizens working in this country who are deprived of the possibility of adequate legal protection in civil and criminal matters. The ratification of these conventions will allow them to receive such legal assistance, particularly in relation to proper legal protection, the right of recourse to the courts of the Libyan Jamahiriya in civil and criminal matters, particularly with regard to the transfer of convicted persons. Although we do not have, fortunately, mutual cases today in the handover of convicted persons, but at the same time, the necessary level of legal relations between countries in this area for the existence of such ratifications will allow them to be punished in the territory of their country of origin, or Ukraine, in the event of such circumstances regarding the conviction of Ukrainian citizens for committing crimes. Thank you for your attention. Please support, these laws are primarily in the interests of our citizens, as I have already said, who are in the Libyan Jamahiriya. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u37	Thank you, too. Oleg Grigorovich Belarus, head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u38	Dear Head, honourable national deputies, we are discussing both bills, but I ask the Head to put them to the vote separately, as required by the procedure. The Supreme Council's Committee on Foreign Affairs has carefully considered the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Great Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya on Legal Assistance in Civil and Criminal Matters, and has unanimously recommended it for adoption by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The adoption of this law will allow a large number of citizens and legal persons of both parties to be allowed if they are in the territory of the other party for the purpose of their rights freely and without hindrance to refer to the courts and other competent authorities in civil and criminal matters. The agreement sets out the mechanisms for the interaction of the competent authorities of both parties with regard to the provision of legal assistance and the procedure for the recognition of the enforcement of decisions by each party in the territory of the other party. The adoption of the law and its further implementation will not require additional financial costs from Ukraine’s State Budget. The Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council reviewed the bill and supported the ratification of the agreement. The Supreme Council Committee on Rules considers it possible to introduce the bill and adopt it by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In summary, please support the Committee's decision in foreign matters and ratify the agreement. The same applies to the ratification bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u39	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u40	I will report on the ratification of the agreement between Ukraine and the Great Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya on the transfer of convicted persons. There is no counterclaim against the immediate ratification of this agreement. The Committee on Foreign Affairs asks the Supreme Council to make a ratification decision. The Committee also supports this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u41	Dear colleagues! Can we put these to the vote? Therefore, in accordance with the procedure and the Rules, I am voting on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Great Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya on Legal Assistance in Civil Criminal Matters to Approve the Draft Law. [[Registration number 0130]] Please vote. [[10:56:39]] For 338 The law is passed. I am voting on the approval of the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Great Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya on the Transfer of Convicted Persons. [[Registration number 0131]] Please vote. [[10:57:13]] For 324 Decision taken. Thank you! Dear colleagues! Now we need to consider a draft decree on a joint meeting of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on "On the Status of the Ukrainian-Romanian Relations" on July 1, 2009. I inform you, Your Honor, that on the Conciliation Council we have decided not to hold parliamentary hearings, but to hold a joint meeting under the leadership of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 1 July 2009. If you had no warning, we would now vote with exception. One minute! Well, we have to make a decision. I propose to delete the second paragraph of this point: “The Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, referred to in paragraph 1 of this decision, to make proposals on the legislative settlement of the issues of Ukrainian-Romanian relations that need to be addressed and on the decision of the executive authorities of the relevant matters which have become the subject of a joint meeting by September 15”. Well, we cannot go ahead without conducting appropriate hearings. It is quite obvious that the results of such hearings will result in a draft of the relevant act of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and we will accept it. So I would like to delete this item and make paragraph three second and vote on the draft regulation. Then please report! I'd like to tell you again, dear colleagues! One moment, dear fellows! Twenty questions we need to consider before 14 o'clock! Please report to the full program already!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u42	Dear colleagues! Recently, there have been some trends in Ukrainian-Romanian relations that deserve the attention of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. At the same time, the desire of both sides to develop good-neighbourly relations and to resolve all issues where there is a common interest through negotiations with participation in the need for all international experiences of other means of resolving the issues, which is a very important issue: the joint development of the Black Sea, including the continental shelf in the area of Snakes; the granting of citizenship to the citizens of Montenegro, other areas; the construction of the Danube Black Sea inland waterway; the securing of the rights and freedoms of the Ukrainian national minority in Romania; the issue of disputed property in Ukraine; the environmental consequences of discarding dangerous substances in the Tisa and Danube rivers from the Romanian side. It is obvious that these issues deserve direct intervention by the Ukrainian Parliament. So I propose that, in a professional non-politicised regime, eight committees meet together with the involvement of the central and local authorities under the leadership of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, with the proposal that, Vladimir Mikhailovich, with the proposal that you made to delete the second paragraph, I think that we can definitely agree and the Committees of European Integration support such a question. And I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u43	Dear colleagues, there is such a proposal on the second page with the involvement of the bodies involved, the word “involved” being removed, because they may be involved in some unfavorable activities, but simply in the appropriate bodies. This is Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin's offer, she hears, I thank you for that. There was an invitation from the National MP Blackwolf to hold such a meeting on July 8th. We can't do that on July 8, because the preparations are being done by July 1, we've been discussing this very date for two weeks and we've defined it. Therefore, honourable colleagues, I am voting on the approval of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Draft Decision on the holding of a joint meeting of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the topic “On the status of the Ukrainian-Romanian relations” by removing the word “indicative” by replacing the “appropriate” organs of the central and executive body with the deletion of the second paragraph, and the third paragraph becomes the paragraph of the second paragraph. Please vote. [[11:02:05]] For 335 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, consideration of draft laws is under way: the Industrial Parks Act and the Industrial Parks Act. [[Registration number 3071]] [[3536]] Rapporteurs of the Ukrainian National Deputies: Shevchuk Oleg Borisovich and Kinakh Anatoli Kirilovich, co-rapporteur of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship of the Royal Natalia Jurijovna. Please, Shevchuk Oleg Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u44	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Ladies and gentlemen, we propose to you a bill on industrial industrial parks, which is the result of the joint work of representatives of three factions: Natalia Kraljevsky, Oleg Shevchuk, Mikhail Chechtov, Vladislav Kaskov, as well as experts from the Ministry of Economics. The main aim of the bill is to create the necessary conditions in Ukraine to ensure the diversification of the region's economic structure, the development of modern manufacturing and market infrastructure, investment participation and the development of the internal market. The drafters of the bill also carried out estimated estimates of the economic relevance of the bill. In particular, in the previous analysis of pilot projects in four regions, the following concrete results can be proposed: the creation of more than 30,000 new jobs is a calculation for only four regions; the implementation of produce for more than 1 billion dollars per year; the arrival of government and local budgets for public trust funds over 300 million dollars. As an illustration of the effectiveness of such an approach in Ukraine, I can give examples of the concrete results of the activities of existing industrial parks, particularly the work of the so-called Malinovo promzona in the Chugui district of Kharkiv. The construction of Malinovo promzona factories has invested some $200 million in foreign investment in the region during the period 2003-2008. And today, the area takes first place in the area in the total amount of foreign investment. And their per capita size was over $4,000, which is 10 times the average. The total volume of industrial production in the region for 2007 — 403 million dollars — exceeded 2.6 times the amount of agribusiness. So a change in the structure of the economy has been made, and the area has become a powerful industrial farm. The same trend follows in 2008. The document envisions state support for the governing company and the park’s industrialists.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u45	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u46	The projected accelerated depreciation for the third and fourth groups, the projected partial compensation for the certification of products to be produced in industrial parks, is a partial compensation from the unemployment fund for the creation of new jobs. Ladies and gentlemen, we look forward to your support for the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u47	Thank you. Anatoly Kirilovich Kinah is invited to the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u48	Honourable National MPs, the relevance of the bill on the foundations for the creation of industrial parks is confirmed by the real state of the Ukrainian industry. For help: In four months of the current year, the total decline in the Ukrainian industry was 32 percent, that is, almost four months later, we lost a third of our industrial output. And unfortunately, one of the highest rates of reduction in production volume is Ukrainian machine-building -- 53 percent, especially in the fields of agriculture -- 97, atomic bleaching -- 85 percent and so on. [[in quotes]] As a result, Ukraine risks losing its scientific and technological, industrial and intellectual potential. So it's very important to set the necessary priorities, to shape the conditions that would allow these priorities to create more favourable tax, investment conditions for the inclusion of resources, especially in directions that relate to the production of scientific, intellectual, technologically complex products. The experience of industrial parks worldwide confirms the effectiveness of this mechanism. In particular, under Ukraine's conditions, this allows to reduce the loss of time and, let's say, the resources to resolve land relations procedures, to create the necessary infrastructure from the point of view of further development of a particular area, to clearly determine the authority of central and local authorities, including transparency of decisions taken. On the basis of the foregoing, we offer to take 3071 as a basis for accelerating our final decision and ask for support. [[Law 3071 covers practically all the provisions of Bill 3536]]
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u49	Please give us the opportunity to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u50	Please support the joint decision of the drafters of the bill, which is a professional committee on industrial, regulatory policy issues, to unify these two bills, to adopt bill 3071 as a basis and to adopt, in an accelerated manner, a bill that is very important for the further development of the Ukrainian industry. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u51	Thank you, too. Head of the Committee on Industrial, Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, Royal Natalia Jurijovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u52	Respected Vladimir Mihajlović, respected colleagues, the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Enterprise Affairs has considered these bills: 3071 and 3536 on industrial industrial parks. Bills offer the legal framework for the establishment and operation of industrial industrial parks in Ukraine. It is important to note that this form of interaction between business entities of different forms of ownership is widespread throughout the world. This is a good and good practice. It was the industrial parks that were driving innovation in the economies of the world. And for Ukraine, the issue of the use of industrial zones and enterprises that have not been able to adapt to market relations and are experiencing a severe crisis today remains very relevant. This will diversify the economies of the regions, support the economic development of the Territories, accelerate the creation of modern, productive and market infrastructures. In addition, the creation of industrial parks will ensure investment flows and the creation of new enterprises, the creation of new jobs, including through foreign capital, we expect the same situation to happen in Ukraine. Bill 3071, submitted, has been substantially refined in the light of the concept of industrial parks approved by the Cabinet of Ministers on 1 August 2006. It took into account the main provisions of the alternative drafts of Bill 3536 and the comments of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office. I would like to add once again to remind you that the adoption of the Industrial Parks Bill will ensure: the first is increased investment and innovation, increased volume and range of output, improved economic competitiveness and job creation. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine proposes the adoption of Bill 3071 on first reading. In view of the above, the members of the Committee decided to deliver.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u53	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u54	Bill 3071 for consideration by the Supreme Council, to propose that it be adopted as a basis. We also held negotiations with the author of Bill 3536, Anatoli Kirilović Kinah, and decided to set up a working group and finalize all necessary provisions, taking into account the proposals made in Bill 3536, for the second reading of Bill 3071. The Committee therefore proposes to support Bill 3071 on first reading and to establish a working group. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u55	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for a discussion of Bills 3071, 3536. I'd like the names of the national deputies who are registered to be put on board. National Deputy Perestenko, Communist faction. Jaroslav Suhi will be next. Alla Alexandrovska, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u56	Dear colleagues, this bill -- I have it in mind 3071 -- which is proposed to be the basis, of course, very much needed and very important. It is not a secret that the total privatization that took place as a minor in Ukraine has led to the fact that we have many factories stopped, destroyed, destroyed. However, there are still considerable core funds that can and should be worked with. We have here in Harikov – here Harikov mentioned, the Harikov region – we have in Harikov completely destroyed the main foundations of the Serp and Molot factory, we have surplus funds of the Malyshev main plant, we have now virtually a bare and abandoned power plant, which can also work, these funds can be used. And this law offers a good form of work in this direction. However, it raises enough questions and questions. I think it's worth thinking about. The point is that the law does not provide for a mechanism for decision-making. Article 4 states that “the decision to implement the industrial park project on the basis of submission by the industrial park initiator agrees with the central authority”. [[paragraph 4]] [[agree]] Who is the main decision-making body: the initiator who owns these funds, or the local authority, or the ministry? However, there must be a solution that must be agreed upon with the Government. I don't think there's an answer to that question. Let's move on. This means that the initiator of the park initiates, returns, determines the management company. I believe that the issue is very important: who will really manage these funds. Moreover, this law provides an opportunity to profit from the operation of core funds owned either by the community or by the State or by a private enterprise. The issue is not settled here either. It seems to me that it should be emphasized that the management company must be included in this company.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u57	Yes, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u58	The initiator of the park, and, more importantly, the owner, must also enter the rights of the accomplice in the work of the company. That is, either representatives of the authorities, or representatives of the central government, because the question is that we are giving up property either to the community or to the public to make a profit. I think it makes sense, after all, for this profit to come from both the community and the State. Moreover, since the law gives certain preferences to these parks, the right and just conditions are created to revive the work of these core funds. I therefore think that this question is that the initiator or owner of all these funds should be, including the recipient of the profits, i.e. the controlling company, I consider this question to be a matter of principle and must be addressed.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u59	Thank you. Please finish, yes, please. Jaroslav Mikhailovich Suhi, a faction of the Party of the Regions, will be the next to speak by Yuri Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u60	Dear colleagues! The crisis that is on the rise in Ukraine is driving us to the need to find a way out of the crisis. I'll remind you of today's crisis is accompanied by the degradation of the real economy, the real decline in the basic sectors of the people's economy. No country has come out of the crisis without understanding without having to identify the main chain of tasks that need to be addressed in order to stop the decline in production rates, namely, a terrible fall in GDP, and even more awe of the wage fund and all the social payments that have fallen so far. We are simply obliged, and today’s crisis has moved us to correct the nonsense that was done in 2005. I'll remind you of Victor Pinzenic's speech, who said that we should sink the fat of the oligarchs and there were attacks on the free economic zones, on the tech parks, attacks on technical and technological preferences started, reminding you, dear fellows, we've set up technical, technological preferences here in this room for those industrial enterprises and for those sectors that have become technical, scientific and technological re-suscitations. All of this was stopped in 2005 and there is no surprise that Ukraine entered the crisis completely unprepared. So I support the committee's proposal to say that the good words at the committee's address are not the first time we've seen here intelligent suggestions and the idea of a systematic approach to solving this problem. It is quite clear that this bill 3071 has to be adopted on the basis of the observation of another bill 3536, then we will get a system-wide comprehensive, with clear definitions, without any suspicion, of any oligarchy encroachment on some property of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u61	Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u62	Yuri Carmazin. The Party of Protectors of the Motherland “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense”. Ladies and gentlemen, I have certainly studied both the law and the law, 3536, which was reported by the People’s Deputies of Kinach. I want to thank people for finding courage in themselves and saying that Law 3071 is broader than that and that it fully covers it, it's absolutely right. But we should say thank you to both Kinahu and Komaru and Potapova for making that law in December 2008. It's almost six months before this bill. Now I'd like to draw your attention to some of the things that I think merit attention to, these things are. First, we didn't see a report from the Committee on Budgets today, we didn't see a report from the Committee on Tax Policy. Why? Because we have a proposal in the final positions of those who have not seen, please see paragraph 2 “Introduce changes to the Ukrainian Law on Business Income Taxation”. We have other rules that talk about state support, that is to provide financial support through full or partial compensation for the interest rate on the national currency involved with bank loans. And for what it's written, to do work on building roads and water supply, plumbing, sewerage, and water treatment. Obviously, it's not a technology park, but it's where it writes the introduction of advanced energy and resource-saving technologies, the processing of household and manufacturing wastes within five years of the beginning of implementation, that's obviously what they're made for. My introduction to the project has clearly shown that this is one of the types of special economic zone and we need to implement mechanisms similar to that law because we have the Law on General Principles for the Functioning of Special Free Economic Zones. That's why I'm proposing to adopt this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u63	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u64	So I suggest we adopt this law 3071. But, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, he must go through the budget committee, through the Committee on Tax Policy, and there must be a conclusion of the Ministry of Finance. There is no law at the time of adoption. I'm not sure we're going to be able to bring it in from January 1, 2010. Because there are opportunities for abuse. Where possible, such laws should be adopted with great caution and considered. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u65	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Bills are closed. Nobody insists? Eugene Kirilchuk, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u66	Eugene Kirilchuk, Timoshenko Street. It was just observed that this bill had not been considered in the Committee on Budget Affairs. He was looking at it and we decided that this law affected the budgetary process with some budget loss. Because of this, it is really necessary for the second reading to have a financial basis, and we will conclude in this regard when it is introduced and how we should support it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u67	Dear colleagues! The committee proposes to adopt the draft Law as a basis. [[B in m in s a l in]] Who? On what basis? The point is, Your Honor, I'm asking you. We consider the law in the first reading. For the second reading of the Cabinet of Ministers, the National Deputies, all committees. This bill is sent to all committees. We'll watch it go into action and in which part and everything. Dear colleagues! I'm asking you, let's keep working at the work pace. I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Industrial Industrial Parks Act. [[Registration number 3071]] Please vote. [[11:22:05]] For 227 Decision taken. I'm betting on the adoption vote on the basis of the draft Industrial Parks Act. [[Registration number 3535]] Please vote. [[11:22:37]] For 20 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues! Well, let's see if I can re-read it. You don't have to? So you'd say there's an agreement. Dear colleagues! The Industrial Parks Foundations Bill has been rejected. [[Registration number 3536]] Dear colleagues! May I have your attention, please? In agreement with the leaders of the MP factions. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? It is proposed that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine amending the calendar plan for the fourth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call. This is: a week from 15 to 19 June – work in districts, committees and factions; a week from 22 to 26 June: 22 June – meeting of the Conciliation Council, 23 June – plenary session, 24 June – plenary session, committee and factions, 25 June – plenary meetings, 26 June – plenary session; a week from 30 June to 3 July – committee and factions work, and beyond, as foreseen by the calendar plan, work in session mode. Is there no objection? I'm voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the draft regulation. [[Registration number 4631]] Please vote. Integrating into the agenda. [[11:24:26]] For 361 We've put in order a day's draft decree. I'm betting on the vote on the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a decree. [[Registration number 4631]] Please vote. [[11:24:53]] For 351 Decision taken. Thank you. The draft Law on Amendments to Article 22 of the Ukrainian Law on Fundamental Principles of State Oversight in the Field of Economic Activity is being published, and the rapporteur is the deputy head of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, Xenius Mikhailwylna Laupina. [[concerning the moratorium]] [[Registration number 3668]] Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u68	Thank you, Your Honor. Xenia Lapina, group “For Ukraine”. I want to point out that this bill is very concise. It is proposed to add such a point to article 22 of the Law on Principles of Public Oversight, which states that by January 1, 2011, a period of crisis, as we predict, should be prohibited from carrying out checks on small business subjects, I emphasize that this is the case for small business entities and with such restrictions as do not apply to defined activities in each type of high - risk test. So we solve two problems. First problem. We're depriving a small enterprise of unnecessary pressure that doesn't actually bring anything to the state or the citizens, but it only contributes to corruption, on the other hand, we're not in any way reducing control over the safety of businesses. So I want to draw attention to the fact that this bill has been discussed for quite some time in both the expert environment and in politics. But I know that today the Party of Regions, as in opposition, has its own proposals of a similar nature. I know that the government has adopted a similar decree of the Cabinet of Ministers on the moratorium on checks. But we also know that this decree, unfortunately, will not work until you and I have approved a change to the law. Since government authorities are certainly governed by Ukraine’s laws, if the decree narrows their rights, they may ignore it. What they're actually doing today, unfortunately, and they're doing. We have today, and you, each of you, have dozens and hundreds of references from business subjects to how the pressure is exerted on them through these very measures of state control, which are very often not meant to protect them at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u69	Let me finish. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u70	Please, Your Honor, support this bill. This is a real step toward enabling us to survive and cope with the crisis.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u71	Thank you. Have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u72	Aah!? From the committee. The Committee of the Supreme Council on Industrial and Regulatory Policies of Entrepreneurship has reviewed and recommended that the bill be based on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u73	What's the basis here? I had to take it right away and that's it. There's one point. Dear colleagues, I would like you to sign up for an address on this subject. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? The People's Deputies of the Philippines are the factions of the Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u74	Please pass the word to your colleague Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u75	Oleg Light Mike.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u76	Oleg Laszko “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Now we've just heard the author of a bill that cares about small and medium-sized businesses. And I don't think there's any MPs on the Supreme Council here, no MP who doesn't care about this business. But I think the first thing I thought about was the citizens of Ukraine, particularly the budgeters who get their salary from the budget; the pensioners who get their pensions from the pension fund. And unfortunately, when it comes to protecting the interests of millions of Ukrainian citizens who depend on the budget, the author does not take much initiative in this defense. Several times at her initiative, laws were broken that allowed the Pension Fund to stabilize its work, to guarantee the payment of pensions to those who needed it. Today we're asked to put a moratorium by 2011 on any test by reason of, you see, the fight against the global financial crisis. Well, let's take a look at the other side of the medal. According to these beautiful words, the intention may also be simply to avoid liability for tax evasion, for violating the laws of law. So taking such a global moratorium on everything and everything, tomorrow the Pension Fund will stop getting money. How do I make sure that the contributions to the Pension Fund are properly paid, yes, or to budgets of different levels? I mean, yes. The business needs the protection of the state and should not be persecuted that there were 20 monthly checks coming from firefighters, then from a sansation, then from a tax office. But brothers, not to be allowed to do checks in general. The law provides for accidents.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u77	Let me finish. You all have it, don't you?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u78	The law provides for cases where these tests are to be conducted. And that's why I don't think there's a need to uphold this law, because that's how we risk leaving the Pension Fund unfulfilled, and as a result, the budgeters will face the dilemma of whether they'll get paid. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u79	Vladimir Karpuk refers the right to speak to Viacheslav Kirilenko. The next one will be Kimova, the faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u80	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “For Ukraine!” Dear colleagues, honourable voters, we have long sought that this decree, this bill was put into the agenda, and we now propose that it be approved. And I particularly refer to the faction “Timoshenko Block” because we are pleased to note that the order of three weeks ago the government adopted a decision after our long-standing insistence that restricts the testing of small business subjects. But this ruling can be repealed at any time, reviewed, cancelled if there is no relevant decision by the Ukrainian legislature. So in order to develop this particular government decision now, more specifically, this bill now needs to be voted on, all the more so as to protect small businesses, which is that small businesses are now the most affected by checks during the financial crisis, when the plan is to be given, and often there is no one to replace themselves, because practically all major entrepreneurial structures are represented in Parliament, and there is no one to protect the small entrepreneur. Therefore, I now call for this bill to be supported in the same way as today in relation to the 4200 bill, also introduced by the parliamentary group “For Ukraine!” which envisions a moratorium on increasing taxes for small business entities by the end of the next – 2010. And the third. We've made a draft decree to ask the government to repeal the 366, against which small entrepreneurs are protesting. This is the kind of decision that predicts double or triple increases in the corresponding numbers for small businesses, and what kind of small business is already half driven into the shadows, and the other half is just going to go to the labor market, and there's no money. So these issues need to be addressed in a complex. I'd like to support you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u81	Irina Kimov, faction of the region, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u82	Respected colleagues, the idea of a moratorium on verifications, of course, is an excellent idea, because business during times of crisis requires support from the State at least passively, without increasing regulatory pressure. But I think that we need to draw attention to the statements made today in the Hall, in particular from the Láško MP, that a moratorium should be set wisely, that it cannot be set absolutely at all, that it cannot be excluded from those options where, for example, trials require certain checks to determine who is to blame. That's why, without a doubt, by supporting the idea, I'm very cautious about this bill. A party of regions and I - we have registered a similar law that makes it more clear that regular checks are possible only in certain cases, which are absolutely necessary to be maintained during the crisis. I think it would be better to use language to limit the purity of checks and to limit the list of entrepreneurs, those types of business to which the law does not apply at all. I therefore propose to consider the law put forward by the Party of the Regions, where the idea of a moratorium has been drafted but is more clear and more interesting. I hope Xenia Mikhaylovna joins our law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u83	Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. The committee's proposal to accept it as a basis. I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending article 22 of the Ukrainian Act on Basic Principles for State Oversight in the Field of Economic Activity. [[concerning the moratorium]] [[Registration number 3668]] Please vote. [[11:36:00]] For-88 The decision is not taken. Please, by the factions. Region Party 4, Timoshenko Yulia Block - 0, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" - 37, Communist faction - 27, Litvina Block - 20. I'm willing to vote on the re-reading. Re-reading draft Law 3668. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:36:39]] For-80 The decision is not supported. The bill was rejected. Xenia Leapina, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u84	Dear colleagues! Xenia Lapina, group “For Ukraine!” I think you've made a huge mistake. We had a chance to work with the comments you had there, and in fact we had the right ones, until the second reading in two weeks, to adopt this law. Because of the ambition of simply demonstrating who's in the landlord's house, you've, in fact, simply done a little bit of a debauchery to a small enterprise. And I think it's going to be properly evaluated. And no ambitious desire will help you, for the BUT will fail this vote when the time is right, for their government and they do not want to deprive you of its corrupt power. It's pretty obvious.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u85	Thank you. All right, good fellows. Dear colleagues, the faction was not called. Well, Oleg Lazko. Called, tipped me off, faction. I'm asking you, just let's not do the math right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u86	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Let's stop populism, yeah. In the small business-read the law, 95 percent of the domestic economy is proposed to impose moratoriums on the conduct of inspections for 3 years. For what reason can people pay salaries, pensions, when Naftogaz, oil factories, gaming businesses and everything else – everything under the moratorium, not to be checked? That is, small and medium-sized business is not really supported by small and medium-sized businesses, but the interests of the mafia are actually lobbying to avoid paying taxes at all and to drain the budget so that people can stop getting wages and pensions. These are the consequences of making populist decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u87	My fellow Members, we must now consider the inclusion in the agenda of the bill and determine whether to make decisions on these bills. [[May I have your attention, please?]] So I'll bet on the vote. Attention, please. - on the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft of a decision to mark at the national level the 925th anniversary of the establishment of the city of Tsurupinsk, of the Hersonian region. [[Peanuts]] [[Registration number 4453]] Please vote. There's a vote coming. [[11:39:24]] For-195 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 121, "Club of Timoshenko" – 3, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" – 25, communists – 26, "Club of Lithuania" – 20. Please. Dear colleagues! I'm betting on a vote on who, in order to return to the question, to include the draft ruling in the agenda, please vote. [[Registration number 4353]] [[11:40:15.]] For 243 They've put it in the order of the day. We're back. I'm sorry. Now we put to the vote the inclusion in the agenda of the draft decision. [[Registration number 4453]] [[11:40:41]] For 243 They've put it in order of the day. Vladimir Aleksandrovitch Yavorowski, come immediately from the committee and we will vote. Yeah? Please, head of the committee, and then we will continue to consider inclusion.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u88	Dear voters! Dear fellow national MPs! The Committee on Culture and Spirituality supported this bill by a majority of the votes given that you and I have made a decision to list the outstanding dates that will be marked at the national level this year. And since the main mass of these festivals had become divided either in Western Ukraine or in Central Ukraine, it was usually the wish of something to be celebrated and, let us say, in the south of Ukraine, where perhaps less so than those monuments and memorable dates. Because of this, you have to decide how to vote here, but I would like to make some comments that we, as members of the committee, have discussed on a number of occasions. First warning. Let's settle with you, literally before the end of this session, we'll send out to everyone, I emphasize, to each of you, the national deputy of a separate letter, take a look at your constituencies, your political interests. Please give all the dates you consider important, the committee will consider them, then the Supreme Council will consider them at its session and more so that we don't crash with you. Because we have this situation where there's actually some kind of proposal coming from the wheels all the time, of course, they're all important, but you realize that the government should also have a general list, properly schedule funding for these holidays, and then it'll be a lot easier. Another warning, we understand very well that Turupin's name is absolutely artificial, it's dedicated to the native of this city, the narco on food. They renamed this city sometime in the late '20s, literally three years before Holodomor, who survived the same way. But I have to say that this question was also raised in the referendum, the Cossack name is Oleški and it's like Oleshkovsky Sich, the famous one today's Turupin and of course.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u89	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u90	It would be worth some money to really go back to the historical name, that's a great name, because Kost Gordijenko, Koszov, was involved with Mazepa in the attempt, in fact, to liberate the Ukrainian state. Because please make up your mind, I say again, the committee supported the draft of this ruling.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u91	One minute, there's no questions for the reporter. The offer, please sign up for the presentation and make an offer. A recording of the performance is being made. Please. On the board, please give me a name. Ivan Stojko, faction of "Our Ukraine People's Self-Defense." Jaroslav Kendzior, please. Now, one minute, they're gonna turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u92	Jaroslav Kendzior. Deputies for Ukraine. Volodymyr Mikhailovich! There's a huge request. On the committee, we discussed the question of including in addition to this approval of the 500th anniversary Supreme Council, the grant of the Magdeburg Law to the city of Belz, a millennium of which we celebrated a few years ago. The day before or this week, last week the plenary had this question, but for some reason it did. We didn't get to him. And it's gone out of order. I would ask that in this decree, as reported by Vladimir Yavorowski, we include a draft decree by Vladimir Wiezowski, which included the addition of our decision on the date and 500th anniversary of the granting of the Magdeburg right to the city of Belz Lviv. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u93	I'm sure the committee will take this proposal into account, send out a list of dates to honor. Let's do it, no problem. Please take a look at the Supreme Council and make a decision. Jaroslav Mikhailovich Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u94	Thank you. I ask Stoyan to give Alexander Mikolaiovich the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u95	Alexander Stoyan, faction of the Party of Regions
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u96	Dear National Deputies! As anchored by the Party of the Regions, I have the will to be in the Hersonian region often, especially in Turupinsk, in the Holy Land -- I want to say these are nice historical places. Especially, I'll say, there are sanatoriums in the Golia Port with medical supplies and, of course, there would have to be financial assistance because from all over Ukraine people are going to the Gola Stop to be treated. And Zurupinsk himself is on the shore of the beautiful river of ours, where, even every year, our people are training in rowing sports. And I think that supporting the marking of these two historic cities is a big event for the citizens who live there, a big event for Ukraine. I would ask you to vote in favour of these two decrees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u97	National MP Gordienko, Communist faction, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u98	Sergey Gordijenko, faction of the Ukraine Poltavščina Company. Of course, the faction of the Company of Ukraine will support this decision. But I am addressing the reporter, and I would never ask Gordienko's last name not to be mentioned next to Mazepa and the Mazepinians, whether they were former or present!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u99	National Deputy Odarchenko, Timoshenko Yuli Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u100	Dear colleagues! Girls love their festival very much, and we have great respect for their wishes. But I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the draft decree is now one holiday for 7 million, the second festival for 10 million dollars. Of course, we must greet the people, celebrate these festivals. But when there is a financial crisis, they think first of the needs that exist in these areas, and there are very many needs that are absolutely urgent. There are problems with the gasification of villages near the town in the Turupin region. In fact, the 7 million that are now being proposed from the budget would close the need for 20,000 people to be gassed. And what's more, now that there's a lot of money gathered from people, they've put it on networks that lie in villages and it's only about building a distribution station. I have an offer to vote in favour, but without allocating such very large financial sums for these holidays. When a crisis occurs, money is not spent on fireworks or on holidays, but it is spent on urgent needs. And so 7 and 10 million are very large, actually fantastic numbers for our difficult time. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, the document has been discussed. It's about funding. I think if you look at the body of the draft decision, you won't see it. And secondly, the Cabinet of Ministers is invited to produce a list of measures. Clearly, the Cabinet of Ministers will work with local authorities and, of course, it will take 925 years to anticipate. And as for saving money, let's do it, dear fellows, we'll be in principle all of us in all of these matters, because some of the troubles are getting money thrown out, our eyes closed. Let me give you some examples, I can give you some examples. So let's make decisions and work. Cranberry, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u102	Dear People's Deputies, I would like to see these two decrees adopted after all because there are many social sites in Goprah??, as well as in the city of Tsurupinsk, since there are large facilities, this is the Zupupina Children's House, a boarding school in Goprah? It's a town hall for old people. These programmes directly include all road-related aspects related to social programmes, disability and light and other programmes. If you can support me, please, because for 15 years no money has been allocated for such celebrations, please support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u103	Dear colleagues, I put to the vote, please pay attention to the proposal of a committee on acceptance as a basis and the entire draft decree on the State level 925th anniversary of the establishment of the city of Turupin in the Herson region. [[Peanuts]] [[Registration number 4453]] Please vote. [[11:50:54]] For 241 I'll take the order. There is now a vote on the proposal for inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Decision on the State level 300th anniversary of the establishment of the city of Gola Dostah of the Hersonian Region, on inclusion in the agenda. Please vote. Naked Land. [[11:51:27]] For 236 They've put it in order of the day. Dear colleagues, the committee suggests that we take this as a whole. Shall we not have a discussion today? Please, National Deputy Karpuk, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u104	Vladimir Karpuk, deputy group “For Ukraine”. I supported the inclusion in the agenda of the 300-year-old Hall of Ports, as well as supporting the marking at the national level of the Jubilee of the city of Turupin. However, I would like to point out, Vladimir Mikhailovich, really, there are many such notable dates, many deputies are giving events, and we can already see a mixed attitude towards celebration: some at the state level, others not at the state level. Last year, decrees were made to mark at the state level 500 years ago a number of Volina's population sites, and they weren't included. There were also decrees throughout our cadences to commemorate the Jubilee of other cities. I'm going back to that 4213, as proposed by the people's representative of Vyezovsky, to mark the 500th anniversary of the award of the city of Belz of Magdeburg. It's not included in anything. Of course, there is a desire for those MPs who are anchored in certain regions to have a more reasonable celebration at the state level and to allocate some funds from the State Budget. All right. Yet, in my opinion, there must be certain criteria, because such a Jubilee is held annually, which Jubilee is celebrated at the national level, which is at the local level. Because the significance can be judged differently from one position or another, whether it's rowing, or whether there's a Dnipro leaking, whether there's someone in the business and where the workers who create it are working. Thus, the Committee on Spirituality, like the Committee on Budget Affairs, should develop certain criteria for marking Jubilee at the national level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u105	Thank you. Well, that makes sense. Vladimir Alexandrovich Yavorowski
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, I'm also joining the idea that we need, let's let the commission be such a committee, we accept it, we develop the criteria for marking a Jubilee, we have to be round dates, because otherwise we're really going to drown. With all that, of course, we need to go back to our history. Because of this, it is absolutely necessary to do so. And I suggest, really, we all do, I repeat, let's write letters, think about what you think is necessary from any point of view or from a political point of view, or from an ethical point of view, or from an historical point of view, we're going to put this one list together, and then we're not going to go back to it anymore. And to my colleague Gordianka, I'd just like to propose. So I thought, let's not mention the name of the famous Russian actor Ulyanov. Let us, then, prohibit him from being mentioned, just as the Gordian woman did.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u107	Bodnar, please, the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. Dear colleagues, please, let's make a statement and take a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u108	Olga Bondar, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, the first deputy head of the Committee on State Building, Local Self-Government. I want to remind everyone of the President's decree on what dates should be defined as a Jubilee. And it's the dates that end in 50 or zero, and it's not, unfortunately, not the dates that end in 25 or 75 or another date. In this case, we have to take this moment into account. And that's already a legal practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u109	Dear colleagues, we have 20 questions. You focus on one point, then you say we're not doing the work plan. What does it mean that we don't vote or vote now? I'm voting on the approval of the draft Decree on the State level of the 300th anniversary of the establishment of the city of Gola Port of the Hersonian Region. [[4318]] Please vote. [[11:56:05]] For 242 Decision taken. I'm still addressing you, my dear colleagues, please, on the Conciliation Council I'm just talking about the need to consider a huge number of drafts. After that, any questions will turn into a full discussion. There are no motives in the simplified procedure. Dear colleagues, we were about to consider the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft of the Law on Amendments to the Law of Ukraine on the System of Social Television and Radio Broadcasting of Ukraine, registration number 4198. [[new editor]] At the same time, the Ukrainian National MP, the author of the bill, Shevchenko Andry, requests that the hearing be postponed in connection with his departure and that he be reported personally on Friday. Is there no objection? It's a delay, isn't it? Well, let's just, yeah, put it off. [[B in m in s a l in]] Is there a good will to maintain inclusion in the agenda? It is, isn't it? Dear colleagues, since there is a proposal to include draft Law 4198 in the order of the draft Law, I ask you to vote in favour of the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the System of Social Television and Radio Broadcasting of Ukraine. [[new editor]] Please vote, please vote. [[11:57:58]] For 316 The bill is included in the agenda. I'll bet on it. No, we just turned it on, we won't be looking at it today. What? Well, the thing is, the project's author asked to postpone. Please, Hanna Herman, microphone. We put him in the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u110	Dear fellow Members, Parliament cannot be adapted to any MP. The MP knew that on the Conciliation Council it was customary to consider, to put the bill in order. We need to consider this bill now. As chairman of the committee, he is ready to report and vote accordingly.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u111	Please, Ivan Kirilenko. Dear colleagues, every time we asked the author for an important reason, we put off. Well. It's my birthday.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u112	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I sent a letter at the signature of the People's MP, the author of the bill. He asks to be examined on Friday in his presence, and he wants to report it. So I thank the colleagues who supported the inclusion in the agenda so that we will not delay later on Friday when there may be fewer deputies in the hall, but let us consider it when the author is available. That's it. This is from an ethical point of view, the author has to tell us what idea he's putting there that's in this bill. Without the author, without his report, it would be unethical. Even from this point of view. Let us consider and vote on Friday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u113	Dear colleagues, I would like to agree with this proposal, because if the Supreme Council of Ukraine considers and does not take as a basis, as the committee recommends, then we will have the charges that the project has been considered in the absence of the author. So I'd like to ask, let's postpone, and it's the only one that comes out of the ship, we'll vote. Is there no objection? Thank you. Dear colleagues, shall we call a recess? A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u114	Please invite the national deputies to the session room so that we can continue our work. The point is, what we need now, dear colleagues, is to determine how to get into the agenda of the bill, and then move on to its consideration. Dear colleagues, we must now consider the inclusion in the agenda of the Free Legal Aid Act. We'll wait for the people. Please invite the deputies to the session room. Dear colleagues, I'll put it to a vote. May I have your attention, please? Well, dear colleagues, please come back here, please, with some basic respect. But you insisted that it be a plenary week. We need to include in the agenda a draft of the Free Legal Aid Act. I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the Free Legal Aid Act. Please vote. Registration number 4406. Please vote. [[12:34:14]] For 228 Decision taken. Reporter - Justice Minister Onichuk Mikola Vasilovich, co-rapporteur - Head of the Committee on Legal Policy, Filipenko Vladimir Pilipovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u115	Your Honourable Head, the distinguished people's deputies, most of all, thank you for being included in the draft law. Because it primarily refers to the vulnerable categories of the population of Ukraine, which it is designed to protect. Honorable national MPs, just to explain why this law, referring to our international legal obligations, Parliament’s decision, the President’s decision, takes almost a page. For the first time, I have to report on a law that requires so many clear rules that make it necessary to adopt this law. What is it, dear friends? It's about us finally, and I'm underlining this, to implement the envisaged legal constitutional guarantee for Ukrainian citizens, which indicates that Ukrainian citizens have the right to guaranteed legal aid. [[Article 59]] And the law itself reveals the content of this constitutional guarantee, proposing that two species be introduced in accordance with this law, two institutional types of provision of such legal aid, namely primary legal aid and secondary aid. It is named conditionally on the fact that the primary legal aid is used by all citizens of Ukraine and the obligation to provide such legal assistance rests with the authorities of the State executive branch and local authorities. Initial legal aid includes providing legal information, advice, and clarifications on the application of legislation. And finally, preparing documents of a procedural nature: applications, permits, any other document. As far as secondary legal aid is concerned. It is predicted that such assistance is provided only to vulnerable population categories, especially those whose total income is less profitable. These are the children, these are the persons who are foretold.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u116	Please finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u117	The next category of citizens is those defined by special laws, the children of all categories. Persons subject to administrative arrest or detention. Individuals who are. on which a precautionary measure has been chosen as a precautionary measure. They are persons who have taken part and are war veterans. Persons who are repressed and recognized as being rehabilitated. And other categories of the population that are actually vulnerable in the law. Again, I would like to stress that there is an appropriate special regime for the protection of violated rights. Finally, regarding the content of such legal aid. This legal aid, and this is different from the primary one, is not only the provision of advice, legal information, but also the fact that the State is paying attention to you, and the authorities of local self-government are obliged to prepare documents of a procedural nature for the citizen and present them to the court. To this end, the law provides for the establishment of a system of the Ministry of Justice of special centres for the provision of free legal aid, which will be financed by the State Budget. Both contract lawyers and specially invited lawyers are required to work in these centers. And that's exactly what these centres are supposed to do to protect the interests of citizens, with a view to implementing the constitutional right of access to justice. Thus, all the categories of citizens that I spoke about, perhaps not all of them were listed in the report, receive the right to legal protection and to present their interests directly to the courts of Ukraine through the provision of appropriate services, specifically provided for by the person empowered by the lawyer and so on. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u118	Thank you. Have a seat, please. From the Committee of the Philippines, Vladimir Philipovich, head of the Subcommittee, Legal Policy Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u119	Thank you. The honourable presiding, honourable colleagues, the Committee on Legal Policy at its meeting discussed the draft Law on Free Legal Assistance submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. [[No. 4406]] The bill aims to ensure the implementation of article 59 of the Constitution of Ukraine and aims to improve the level of service of citizens with adequate free assistance and to increase their legal knowledge and protection. [[on the provision of free legal assistance to unprotected populations]] The Committee of the Supreme Council on Legal Policy, taking into account important bills on free legal assistance and the fact that its provisions in the event of their adoption will affect the activities of various authorities of the State, as well as the draft law on the positions of representatives of the public, the authorities of the State, the scientific institutions, pursuant to article 15 of the Ukrainian Law on Committees of the Supreme Council, asked the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine, the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Institute of State and the right of the name of the National Academy of Sciences to make observations and proposals. At its meeting, the committee considered the conclusions that came from the above-mentioned bodies and institutions and generally agreed with the comments and suggestions that suggested the need for substantive drafting of the bill. However, taking into account the fact that the adoption of the law on free legal assistance is important for the further development of Ukrainian legislation, the adaptation of the legislative field of the State to European standards and in line with the needs of Ukrainian citizens to receive free legal assistance, the Committee on Legal Policy adopted a decision recommended by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the draft law on free legal assistance submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, adopted in the first reading on the basis of further reading and taking into account the comments and proposals received. [[Registration number 4406]] Please support the committee's conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u120	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Please sign up for the bill. May I see the names of the national MPs? National Deputy Karpuk faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u121	Vladimir Karpuk, deputy group “For Ukraine”. We support this bill despite the comments it has. Indeed, an extremely important bill. We certainly have such legal nihilism in the state, as in one of the few nations. And in general, we need to develop the legal culture of the population. At the same time, there are many people who are left with basic issues outside the legal aid. Those efforts to create a “one window” in local self-government and local executive authorities, to give some people advice on the right, on their rights, and from their particular features, they did not get any help that they hoped for. Therefore, the introduction of free legal aid will be an incentive for people to have access to legislation in order to handle their affairs. We see what a great urge is to complain about various organs and to this day they do not resolve. Just knowing that we have everything for free is futile, so there are certain doubts about the success of this matter, but the law is essential and we will vote to accept it as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u122	Vadim Kolisnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u123	Please pass the word to Lukash Elena.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u124	Lukas Olena, faction of the Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u125	Thank you. Dear colleagues! In general, by supporting this bill, I would like to draw your attention in preparing for the second reading on some of its shortcomings. First of all, I think we should expand the list of people who are being given secondary legal assistance. An analysis of the Law’s provisions allows for the assumption that they will not receive free legal aid: disabled persons, affected by the Chernobyl disaster, many children, single mothers, and so forth. Therefore, the list of such ones provided for in article 14 is to be expanded or not made exhaustive. Secondly, I believe that this law extends to the rights of active Ukrainian lawyers, because the 26th article of the draft states that a lawyer who provides free secondary legal assistance cannot, on a permanent basis, engage in any other legal activity on a contractual basis. You know, this is totally contrary to the rights of lawyers, both in law and in international law. To deprive lawyers of their right to work just because they agreed to provide free legal aid, I find it impossible. And a very serious observation is the order of financing such a good thing as the Ministry of Justice is trying to establish, because it is not clear from the current proposed rules who is funding free legal aid. One rule states that the State budget, the other is not prohibited by the law of the source. Who will be the source of funding for the activities of government agencies, and is it not corruption? And the third. The third article provides that this is based on local budgets. You know what's going on with the local budgets. To transfer responsibility to them for financing free legal aid, it is necessary to reconcile with them whether there is room or no funds. In general, the order of financing is highly contradictory and needs to be clarified. That's why we're going to vote and support on the basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u126	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u127	Thank you. We'll vote and vote on the basis, but the bill misses a major flaw. If we do not resolve the issue of financing, this free legal aid, as a burden on the local authorities and self - government, will not help anyone except the looting of the people. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u128	Oleg Lazko, BUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u129	Oleg Laszko "Club of Yulia Timoshenko". The bill really needs serious refinement, as noted by his colleague Luke. But this is the first step in solving a very important issue for citizens of the country, this is the possibility of getting free legal aid. And we should welcome and thank both the Ministry of Justice and the government for initiating the introduction of an appropriate bill to the Supreme Council. Because millions of Ukrainian citizens, especially those who are underprivileged, who do not have an extra allowance to eat, let alone hire a decent lawyer, are now deprived of the opportunity to receive this legal aid. And as a result, each of us goes to the electorate, for example, to villages and queues are made up of peasants who show contracts for renting land for 25 years and says that, give or take care of whether I knew I was there.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u130	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u131	And there are those who gave away that land for free. And if legal aid had been given in time, if the State had helped these people to protect their interests, we would have had fewer people robbed and deceived. Therefore, the bill should be supported, and the second reading should be followed up by all the points that the colleagues were paying attention to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u132	Dear colleagues, the bill is closed, the committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. [[Registration number 4406]] I am betting on a motion for adoption on the basis of the draft Law on Free Legal Aid. [[Registration number 4406]] Please vote. [[12:47:29]] For 327 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Law on Amendments to Article 73 of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2009. [[on rental contracts]] [[Registration number 4323]] Please vote. [[12:48:03]] For 308. Decision taken. The rapporteur is the Deputy Head of the State Property Fund Pupkov Alexander Yurievich, co-rapporteur, the First Deputy Head of the Committee for Budget Affairs, Kirilchuk Evgen Ivanovic. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u133	Your Honor, the presiding officer, the honourable lords of the deputies! For your consideration, a bill amending 73 articles of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2009 is proposed. The essence of the proposed changes is to allow a tenant who conscientiously fulfils all the obligations under the lease, the right to continue the lease for a new term, but not more than two years. The practice of this year with regard to lease contracts shows that such changes should be made especially in the face of a crisis, because a valid procedure for extending the contract on competitive grounds results in substantial losses for both the budget and the small and medium-sized businesses. Please support the proposed bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u134	Thank you. Please, Eugene Ivanovich Kirilczuk, on the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u135	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The Committee on Budget Issues, at its meeting on June 2, this year, reviewed the draft Law on Amendments to Article 73 of the State Budget 2009 Act, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers. The committee decided to support the bill in the first reading and to clear some legal aspects of the second reading in the proposed amendments to article 73. This observation was also made by the Legal Authority, which also proposes to support the bill in its first reading. It practically simplifies the system for good-faith renters to continue the lease without participating in the competitions, and to this end it is premature to submit the documents that are in place for this year in order to enter the bill. Thank you for your attention. Please accept.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u136	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the discussion. Dear colleagues, if you insist, I will put the vote to the vote. But we need to take it as a foundation as a whole. That we will produce butterflies and guide them to the second reading. The main scientific and expert office here is proposing in terms of legislative technology. These could be taken into account and accepted as a whole. Right? That's why I'm voting on the adoption of the entire draft Act amending article 73 of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2009. Please vote. [[12:51:48]] For 311 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, if there are no warnings, allow me to put him to the vote for adoption in the second reading and generally as a law that takes into account technical observations. I put to the vote this proposal please vote for adoption in second reading and as a whole as a bill of draft law. [[Registration number 4323]] [[Registration number 4323]] [[12:52:21]] For the 320. The law is passed. Please, Xenia Leapina with a motive. The microphone is now on.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u137	Xenia Lapina, group “For Ukraine!” I would like to point out that we have finally done at least one good thing, we have adopted a law in general that deprives us of the need to be completely engaged in the contests that were imposed by the ruling Party of the Yulia Tymoshenko Block, which we have fought for two years and tried to overcome. We are happy that today common sense has overcome this marasm, which has been introduced by the State Budget Act, which obliges everyone to compete. And then the "Julia Tymoshenko Block" wondered why the slot machines were all over the place. So it's your hands on the right, dear fellows. Gambling machines simply won competitions in bread shops or dairy stores. Here's the result today. Happily, we have overcome this problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u138	Oleg Lazko, a line, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u139	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. A big request, let's not put shadows on the stove. Now, with such enthusiasm, our colleague tells us that they have finally overcome the problem. I want to pay attention to this colleague of ours, and to those who may have succumbed to her influence. The bill, which we have just voted on as a whole, is proposed for consideration by the Supreme Council by the government of Yulia Timoshenko. And it is the government that solves this problem that the forerunners have created. But there's nothing better to say that, you see, the government is creating problems there. The government, on the other hand, solves them. If you are such active fighters in words, why have you not proposed this bill? What did you expect the government to do? What you're saying, you've been there for two years. You don't have to do politics in the same place. A total of 300 votes voted in favour of the law, thanking the entire Supreme Council. No, everyone's trying to show that they love him more.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u140	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I would like to vote on the inclusion in the agenda of the bill amending the Ukrainian law on cross-border cooperation, please vote. [[Registration number 4029]] [[12:55:08]] For 275 Questions are included in the agenda. The rapporteur is Deputy Minister for Regional Development and Construction of Tkakov Anatoli Fedorovich. The correspondent is the head of the Committee on Foreign Rights, Oleg Grigorovitch Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u141	Ladies and gentlemen of the Ukrainian People's Republic, a bill to amend the Law on Cross-border Cooperation is being submitted to your consideration. It is prepared on the basis of recommendations of parliamentary hearings held at the Supreme Council of Ukraine on June 27, 2007. The law is very simple and very short, it refers to two issues: the question first is the central authority of the executive branch, which will be responsible for coordinating efforts in cross-border cooperation, this should be done by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Economics; the second position, which is extremely important, is a registered position on co-financing cross-border cooperation programmes. According to international documents to which Ukraine is a party, funding for such projects by the European Union is only provided that Ukraine is part of the funding – 10 per cent of the amount of the project. Therefore, it is proposed to make an appropriate amendment to article 14, where the word “funding” is replaced by the word “cofinancing”. Requesting support for this bill, which is extremely important in terms of access by the Ukrainian authorities to the European programmes that are already actually allocated to Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u142	Thank you. Oleg Grigorovitch Belarus is head of the committee, please, the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u143	Dear Head, honourable national deputies, the Committee on Foreign Affairs reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Cross-border Cooperation and recommended it to be adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in its first reading. Most members of the committee voted in favour of this decision at the April 1st meeting this year. A member of the Committee, Alexander Mikolayovich, from the BUT faction, made a comment. The bill is designed to implement parliamentary hearing recommendations on: “On intensifying Ukraine’s cooperation with the European Union within the framework of Euroregions and the perspective of cross-border cooperation. It aims to strengthen the coordination of cross-border cooperation through the transfer of appropriate powers to the Ministry of Regional Development and the construction of Ukraine. The bill also proposes the implementation of projects and cross-border cooperation programmes on the basis of co-financing from different countries. According to an explanatory note by the Ministry of Regional Development and Construction of Ukraine, the implementation of the bill does not require additional costs from the State Budget. The Committees of the Supreme Council on Budget, European Integration and the Rules recommended it for consideration by the Supreme Council for adoption in the first reading. The main scientific and expert office also considers it possible to adopt this bill only as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u144	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u145	It's based on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u146	Yes, what are the reasonings, fellow believers? Please sign in. I'd like to see the name of the national MPs on the board. Ivan Stojko. Jaroslav Kendzior is handed over the right to. Jaroslav Kendzior microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u147	Jaroslav Kenzior, “For Ukraine!” Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear fellow national MPs! I am a living witness to how ineffective we are in using cross-border cooperation. The Lviv region is bordered by Western states that are part of the European Union, and the eastern areas of Ukraine also have tremendous opportunities. Because, under different circumstances, Ukraine cannot partially participate in the development of customs crossings, other objects on the borders, we isolate ourselves somehow. Ours, in particular the Lviv districts: Old Samobirski, Yavorowski, which border with Poland, do very much, despite even the lack of certain legislative support in this regard. And we must accept this law as a whole today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u148	Sergey Shevchuk, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u149	In fact, cross-border cooperation was not financed by the State, but not because it was not the amendment, but for very other reasons. And the previous MP knows all about it. The essence of cross-border cooperation is not only to build small objects there and to say that the State is helping. Cross-border cooperation has a great deal of ideas – humanitarian, scientific, technical, final, customs cooperation, cooperation of certain services on border crossings, particularly border services. And it's hard to imagine that there are professionals in this new ministry -- the Minregiobudi -- who can capture it. The point of the proposals is that now the leaders of the border areas -- and I remind you that only five areas in Ukraine are not borderline, and everyone else is borderline -- are now coming to this ministry and agreeing to any regional cross-border cooperation programmes. This is another attempt by another structure to bureaucraticize and keep the question to themselves, as if to go on the road every time. It's not development, it's cross-border cooperation. This is an issue, and therefore I ask the MPs to think very well, especially those who represent the border areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u150	Vadim Koleschenko, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u151	Dear colleagues, of course, there is a need to support this bill, but I would like to draw attention to the phrases that came from the coalition's floor when it was said that Western Ukraine has its areas of border and eastern areas have the potential for real border cooperation. I will give you a concrete example of how the Lugansk Region has done everything in accordance with the law in order to ensure the implementation of the Transboundary Cooperation Act, and from Kiev it sends a remarkable response to the Lugansk region: we recommend that you find another Power, another State with which the Lugansk region would conclude a treaty on cross-border cooperation. Think of the wonderful people we have in the Cabinet of Ministers who have come up with Lugansk, who, 300 kilometres to the left, cooperates only with the Russian Federation 300 kilometres to the right and recommends that they find another State with which to conclude a treaty on cross-border cooperation. So once again, here's nationalism and legal support, it's all different, frankly.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u152	Dear colleagues, everything, the bill is closed. From the faction there was an act. I'm sorry. I can't give it to you. Dear colleagues, the committee is offering to take the floor. I am voting on this proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Cross-border Cooperation. Registration number 4029. [[13:04:09]] For 343 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, now pay attention. The scientific and expert management's observation is that there's no such term as co-financing, there's such a financing term. Well, if we put it on second reading, there's nothing to put off. Let's put him to the vote in general. Sergey Shevchuk, please microphone. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u153	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I understand that this is a short bill, but as a deputy, I have the right to study it and make my remarks. So I personally object to putting him to the vote in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u154	Then do the job. Dear colleagues, in accordance with the Rules, if one MP objects, we do not have the right to put him to the vote. Yes, the committee, please cooperate. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislation on the organization of a permit system for improving the investment climate. Registration number 4277. Please vote. [[13:05:36]] For 186 The decision is not taken. Natalia Royal, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u155	Dear colleagues, just a few minutes ago, we argued here: who loves Ukrainian business more and more, and who of our political forces will increasingly support our Ukrainian entrepreneurs today and experience the crisis. A bill prepared by the Cabinet of Ministers that so radically reduces the impact of officials on the business climate, which currently supports investors. Once again, once again, we place the foot of our Ukrainian business and once again our personal ambitions, political desirability takes over our adequate economic decision. Vladimir Mihajlovich, there's a proposal, let's try to put it on the agenda again, because it's a really important, necessary anti-crisis bill today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u156	I, my dear fellows, can say one thing to a ghastly applause that the government is now establishing, perhaps a coalition, you will see how many people are present who cannot vote for inclusion in the agenda. Whom do we blame? Please, Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u157	Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I believe that you and I, those who did not vote for inclusion in the agenda, did the right thing. Let me explain the situation. We are not against the standards laid down in this bill. But these rules are one-on-one repeating the two bills that we have already adopted with you in the first reading. Today, we could adopt a third bill on the same subject and on the same subject. What's the third one if there's two. I remind you of the laws. Act No. 1362, adopted on April 8, 2008. More than a year has passed, and there is no second reading. These same laws, which were now proposed by 4277, are absolutely one in a single bill, Bill 1179, which was adopted on April 15, this year. Is there a plan on the committee that a bill is passed every month?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u158	Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u159	Dear colleagues! Let's leave politics in the session room. At a meeting of the Committee on Social Policy and Work, we told the drafters of the bill that the bill was missing. [[4277]] He chaotically, scholasticly acquired the standards of laws that are already either working or introduced. One real example. We voted on the bill of colleague Lviv Biruk of BUTU. They voted as a whole as a bill, again the same rules here. What's that for? The committee should simply reject this law and comply with the opinion that it is very correct, the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority, that the Main Committee has every reason to return this bill to the legislator's initiative without its consideration. It's not the situation, it's not the sphere. This bill is defective.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u160	Dear colleagues! At the same time, please mobilize. At the same time, I will put to the vote a return to the question of the inclusion in the agenda of draft law 4277. To return to the consideration of the inclusion of Bill 42 77 in the agenda. Please vote. [[13:09:42]] For a hundred and We have not returned to this issue. The bill was rejected. Dear colleagues! One minute, let's work. May I have your attention, please? A proposal is made for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on mandatory public social insurance in case of unemployment. [[on the termination of a contract of employment under the contract of the parties]] Registration agreement 4567 Please vote. [[13:10:29]] For 359 Questions are included in the agenda. Rapporteur – First Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy Rosenko Pavel Valerijovich, co-rapporteur – head of the Committee on Social Policy and the work of Papiev Mikolaajovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u161	Dear Volodymira Mihajlovich, distinguished national MPs, is being submitted to your consideration by the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Stately Compulsory Social Insurance in Case of Unemployment. In particular, the government is proposing to strengthen the social protection of citizens to provide for the right of persons who have been freed under a contract of the parties to support unemployment from the first day of their registration as unemployed in the State Employment Service. The project is a response, especially to the numerous appeals made by people who have been released from work recently under the agreement of the parties, especially in the rural area where seasonal work prevails. At the same time, I would like to point out that workers who are now subject to dismissal in connection with changes in the organization of production and work are also obliged to do so and should insist that employers be released for another article, in accordance with article 40, paragraph 1, of the Ukrainian Labour Code. Because in case of illegal dismissal, they can defend their rights in court. The parties ’ release is also, as it were, likely to deprive workers of their rights, which in most cases were subject to the reduction of the following labour legislation procedures. In particular, the State Employment Service reports in two months on the future release for the purpose of selecting another suitable job, consulting with a professional organization on the possibility of providing another job, considering possible benefits for employment in the release of certain categories of workers, paying out out-of-service aid in the amount of the average wage, and so on. I would also like to say, in support of this bill, that the bill is the answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u162	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u163	The bill is also responsible for promoting the implementation of the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of 28 April 2009, which has been declared unconstitutional by the Ukrainian Act on Stately Compulsory Social Insurance, which was adopted on 25 December 2008.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u164	Mikhailo Mikolaiovich Papiev, head of the Committee on Social Policy and Labour.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u165	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The Committee on Social Policy and Labour carefully considered the bill. And I'd like to ask the committee to clarify some of the positions. First. That this bill is not an initiative of the government, and we need to be honest and honest with the citizens of Ukraine. Because the history of this bill refers us to the date of December 25, 2008, when, under the cover of the global financial crisis, the pressure of an active government was passed by the Ukrainian Act, which provided for amendments to article 1, paragraph 9, and part of article 23, part three, of the Ukrainian Law on Stately Compulsory Social Insurance in the event of unemployment. And this law has deprived people who have been released by consent of the parties, the right to receive state aid for unemployment on the 8th day following their registration at the State Employment Service. This law established this unfortunate date on the 91st day. So right after the Constitutional Court's decision, which was published on April 30, this year, the government was forced to submit the bill and correct its own error. Therefore, the Committee on Social Policy and Work proposes to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt a bill on the basis of which it is based, and to restore social justice in relation to Ukrainian citizens who have terminated the employment agreement at the agreement of the parties. [[Registration number 4567]] Because you all know that often, it's just under the pressure of the employer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u166	Thank you, Mikhailo Mikolaiovich! Dear colleagues! Is there no objection to the vote? Vladimir Karpuk, please, then Alexander Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u167	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Taking into account that we are restoring social justice and implementing the Constitutional Court's decision of 28 April 2009 and correcting those mistakes that we made on 25 December, voting in favour of the bill amending certain laws on reducing the global financial crisis on population employment, and the text of this bill is very short and in fact written in paragraph nine to exclude the words and figures in the article and in part three to introduce “or by consent of the parties”. So you can take it as a basis and in general not go back to that question.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u168	Thank you! Alexander Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u169	Alexander Stoyan, head of the Social Security Committee. Dear colleagues! You know, there's a lot of people loose right now. In doing so, employers, when freeing a worker, demand that a contract of employment be signed by the parties as if the worker had agreed to get out of work voluntarily. What's more, it's been this way until now. If a person has been released by consent of the parties, it is not recognized that he has been released according to his own will, more loyal than under the circumstances that forced him to do so. And another negative moment remains until now. When he gets busy, after unemployment, he starts getting help from the 91st day. So a person was forced to quit his job, a person was put into employment and started paying from the 91st day. What is proposed by this law has already been said by a colleague of Papiev. In order to provide social protection for citizens, it is suggested that, first of all, unemployment aid begins on the 8th day after the insured person's registration in the State Employment Service, and that he admits that the employee has been fired, but for whatever reasons he has to be freed, or he could have been out of work at all. So this law is very important, it restores social justice, it allows a person to go back to work or take another place in the same enterprise, and the main thing is that it allows him to become an employee within a week and get unemployment assistance. So I support the proposal made by my colleague Karpuk, to accept as a whole. Let this law work for the benefit of the people of work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u170	Let's take it this way, now we're going to take it as a basis, and then Mikhailo Papieva will express the committee's opinion. The draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Stately Compulsory Social Insurance in the event of unemployment is put to the vote to be adopted as a basis. [[on the termination of a contract of employment under the contract of the parties]] [[Registration number 4567]] Please vote. [[13:18:48]] For 351 We accepted it as a foundation. Mikhail Papiev, microphone, please,
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u171	Thank you. Honourable Ukrainian National Deputies, taking into account the social importance of this bill, have also considered the committee's proposal to invite the Supreme Council of Ukraine to accept it at the same time as in the second reading, and in general. But we learned the situation. The point is that there is a decision by the Constitutional Court that recognizes this rule as unconstitutional. Therefore, we will need to consider how we can restore the citizens of Ukraine, who for five months and ten days were deprived of the right to receive state aid on unemployment. Nevertheless, I would ask the Committee of Time to prepare this bill for second reading and to restore social justice to hundreds of thousands of Ukrainian citizens who had been deprived of social assistance for five months.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u172	Dear colleagues, then, such an offer to make a decision so that the second reading will be prepared according to a reduced procedure. Please, the government, what about it?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u173	Well, I can only say that, Mikailo Mikolaiovich, so that we don't delay the process without further delaying the adoption of the law. However, there can be no law according to the applicable rules of retroactive force. So I would ask anyway, given the need to implement it as quickly as possible, not to push it further.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u174	Dear colleagues, we are not going to discuss this. We have completed our consideration of the matter. I'm betting on voting to have the committee prepare him for second reading for the next plenary week. All of it. [[13:21:00]] For 218. Well, get on with it. Let's do it this way: the committee, when it's ready, so we'll put it right on the table. All of it. Dear colleagues, we need to include in the agenda a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Capital of Ukraine, the City of Kiev. [[new editor]] Registration number 4463. I'm asking you, Your Honor, to put it in the agenda or go out on the street and explain what's going on in the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. For inclusion in the agenda, please vote. [[13:21:49]] For 232 They've put it in the order of the day. The rapporteur is the head of the committee's subcommittee on State Building and Local Self-Government Tradeduk Mikola Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u175	Honorary Volodymyr Mihajlovich, Honorary Fellows, Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government at its meeting on 14 January 2009, reviewed the draft laws of Ukraine amending the Ukrainian Law on the Capital of Ukraine, the City of Kiev, introduced by Ukrainian National Deputies Kravchenk, Plotnicki, Pilpenk, Portnov, Seminogue, Donya and Martinenko. The committee decided to set up a working group of committees to agree on the provisions of the bills under consideration and to submit a single bill to the Committee on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Capital of Ukraine, the Hero City of Kiev. The working group held 10 meetings to consider 139 proposals, amendments to the laws of the legislative initiative, ministries, and other organizations, of which 24 were rejected, and 30 were partially accounted for. As a result of this work, the working group of the committee prepared a harmonized draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Capital of Ukraine, the City of Kiev, introduced by the National Deputies, representing all factions in the Supreme Council. The bill contains a lot of money that confirms the expectations of local self - government. This refers to the election of the Kiev City Head, two-round heads, the organization of the administrative and territorial system, which makes it impossible for the city council to volunteer from the liquidation of the areas, the elimination of the practice of reconciliation between the city's head and the head of the KMDA, the concentration of executive functions in the sole executive body of the city's self-government, which heads the city's head, the liquidation of district government administrations, the concentration of executive functions in the executions. KMDA will only perform supervisory and coordination functions. In the general conclusion, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council believes that, as a result of the first reading, a bill can be adopted as a basis. For the second reading, the committee's working group will deal with all the proposals that have already come. And I hope that, with your help, we will adopt a much updated and quality Law on the Capital, which the Chinese dream of.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u176	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u177	What the Chinese dream of today before the Supreme Council. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government at its meeting held on 20 May 2009 adopted a conclusion: recommending to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Capital of Ukraine, the City of Kiev, to be adopted as a basis. I'm asking you to support me on behalf of the Chinese. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u178	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign in if you need to. Have a seat, please. Please sign up for the performance. Please show us the board. Ivan Kirilenko. Bodnar, please. Here we go, you can go from place to place like you. Who? Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u179	Dear colleagues, I would like to say that the new draft of this bill is extremely important, and today we would have to discuss and continue the process of providing civil administration in the Ukrainian capital, Kiev. There are three reasons why the author group has been forced to work on this bill. The first reason, I'd say, is of such a strategic, worldwide nature. It's a capital, and every European capital has a special law that clearly describes how to perform capital functions as local self-government functions, and how to make a compromise and balance between the institutions of power that work here working properly; and the community that lives in Kiev felt that there was respect and support for it. There's an institutional moment that's taken into account in the law, where very clearly and clearly distributed functions are self-governance and functions of government. Today, there is a situation that affects virtually one person and several deputies, as it is not only the people of Kiev but also the people associated with the performance of capital functions. I have said on more than one occasion that centralization in Kiev is something that today, for example, requires the signature of a Kiev city head to set up an ad shield. In view of the fact that he spends most of his time in Switzerland or Israel, you can imagine the pace of the decision - making process. Clearly, then, the distribution of functions is extremely important. Of course, there is a subjective moment, and during the leadership of Leonid Czernovecki, we realized that there can be no such fantastic stress because of both the work on the council and the work on the administration for one person. Of course, experts have to understand why the reason for this unique specific disease of Chernobyl is that it is often treated, but I think that's what we need to think in order to know that the head of KMDA and the city head are two different people, each responsible for their functions, and everyone is equally responsible for the law. So I propose that we take the first reading, continue the discussion and get into the situation so that we can live shamelessly in the Ukrainian capital, Kiev, and the authorities working in Kiev have a responsibility to the law, not to go to the President's Secretariat and beat out orders for decisions in Kiev only with family or corporate ties. So I would like to support you in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u180	National Deputy Ariev, faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". The next one will be by Gordienka.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u181	Dear colleagues, today the Supreme Council is obliged simply to do everything to ensure that the capital of Ukraine ceases to be a prince, because today, in fact, because of the authority of the city of Kiev, we do not have a city manager who is responsible for what is being done, but we have a prince who does what he wants: I want to -- I want to -- I want to punish; I want to -- I want to -- I want to, I want to -- no. In particular, the latest situation with the opponents of Czernovecko - Pilpisin, when the city’s city administration simply banned the companies that owned the boards from placing the information materials of the city’s Philippines. Are we going back to 2004? I believe that order in the capital is urgently needed to date, because the capital is like the head of the state, because from the capital in other regions, all the other curiosities are diverged. If we don't set an example today, how we need to organize the life and activities of the capital, then we're going to get the whole country in the ruins, all the housing and utilities, the roads are going to be all over Ukraine, like in Kiev, because there's an example from the capital. Today we see the killings of people who are trying to protect Kyiv, including the killing of environmentalist Goncharov on the island of Zhukov, and the inaction of the Kiev authorities has led to the loss of life. I believe that we are obliged to adopt this law in the first reading, as a minimum, for China, and not just for the whole of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u182	National MP Gordienko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u183	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. Today, not just the Chinese, but all the Ukrainian citizens do not understand what is going on in Kiev, and this causes anxiety in the regions when you are, because people ask what is behind the mayor, what is behind the city council, and why it is robbing the national dignity of Ukraine and the dignity of the capital of Ukraine. I'd like to go to the kyans today. You come here every day and you take care of the Supreme Council and you demand the adoption of what laws or the application of what actions. But I want to draw your attention to the fact that a year ago the Supreme Council of Ukraine gave you a chance, and the faction of the Company of Ukraine consistently supports at all stages the thesis that the capital of Ukraine should have proper authority and should have a worthy measure. Just because you did not take up a consistent civil position, it was assumed that today's mayor was elected for the second time. Today, of course, I propose to support all of you with the bill that my committee colleague, Mikola Fedorovich Trajduk, reported here. But what I'm saying is that the draft of this law carries a lot of this money that's extremely controversial, and in the first reading, we need to support it, then we need to form a working group, and we need to work on this bill seriously.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u184	Vadim Koleschenko, faction of the Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u185	Dear colleagues! Undoubtedly, it requires compassion. Of course, the Kievyan must be supported. But strangely enough, the Supreme Council has consistently supported various political groups that cannot end up in the capital city of our country, the city of Kiev. But why doesn't anyone explain why we don't have a system of local self-government? For reasons that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine unlawfully made an additional exemption from Kiev's budget of 7 billion grivens, from Zaporozhye's budget of 400 million, from Donetsk's budget of 4 billion. “This is where the dog is broken!” The Cabinet of Ministers simply wants to solve its questions. And if you want to deal with the Chernevski, so deal with the elections, figure out why, because he is a member of our Ukrainian Union, he was in the faction of our Ukrainian Union, with two hands and legs he supported Maidan and warmed up the pickets and rallyers. You'll figure out what you're up to. Why are we here, while the Kiewlians and the Supreme Council are here? Finally, we're constantly banging on the Qiev City Act for some reason. And for some reason, we keep forgetting that the town of Sevastopol, at the mercy of the Supreme Council, has not had the right to choose its own, controlled city for almost 15 years. The Committee is blocking the consideration of the bill. The Commission, which was created, did not consider any project or concept. What's that? It's a struggle for human rights, is it a struggle for local self-government? And we have district councils today that have no powers and powers in all cities. It is therefore necessary to address, not selectively, the issue of the situation, the momentary issues and the struggle against one person, but to address the issue in an integrated manner. This is called professionalism, consistency and the struggle for the future of our State, its proper structure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u186	Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. For the suggestions made by my colleague Koleschenka, I ask the secretariat and the committee concerned to ask what the laws on the status of the hero Sevastopol are so that at the next Conciliation Council we can determine whether we can make a decision on this issue. The other one. In Kiev, what happens is what happens in the state. So let's not throw this responsibility at each other, this is a responsibility including the Supreme Council of Ukraine. If it's convenient today -- that's how they voted, not convenient -- there, agreed with Kiev -- otherwise they voted. Committee proposal: accept as a basis this project. So I'm going to put this proposal to the vote. Perhaps it will be a disciplining factor. Please vote on the adoption as a basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Capital of Ukraine, the City of Kiev. [[new editor]] Registration number 4463. Please vote. Please vote. [[13:35:17]] For 222 I ask you to vote, Your Honor. I'm voting for a return to the consideration of Law 4463. Why don't you vote? I'll take the vote on the return. Please vote. [[13:35:41]] For the 220. I don't understand why you don't vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll bet. I'm asking for your attention! I'm going to the faction. I'm betting on a return vote, registration number 4463. Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[13:36:30.]] For 242 We're back. I'm betting on a vote on adoption on the basis of draft Law 4463. Please vote. [[13:36:53]] For 245 Decision taken. I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft law on debt reduction to the Ukrainian Pension Fund of enterprises of strategic importance and to coal-based enterprises and the restoration of the pension rights of their employees. Registration number 4218, about the inclusion in the agenda. Please vote. [[13:37:30.]] For 310 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the national deputy of Ukraine, Suškević Valerij. Microphone, please. The Coroner is the head of the Committee's Subcommittee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, Kulczynski Mikola Georgievicz.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u187	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! There is a request from the Pension Fund to reconcile some of the provisions of the bill and move it to the next sessional week. So I'm asking you not to look at it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u188	Dear colleagues, how can he be worked out? For the second reading, he will obviously be further developed if there are warnings. We should consider and make decisions. I'm voting on the postponement of the draft law, registration number 4218. Please vote. [[13:38:40]] For 319 Decision taken. I'm voting for the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending the Ukrainian Taxation System Act on the Temporary Prohibition of Increases in Taxes and Congregations. Registration number 4200. Please vote. [[13:39:11]] For-164 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on the vote on the return to consideration of the inclusion in the agenda of the 4200 project. Please vote. [[13:39:40]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. The factions, please. I'm asking you to calm down, dear colleagues. Region Party – 140, “Clock Timoshenko” – 0, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” – 26, Communists – 27, “Clock of Lithuania” – 1. Please, Xenia Lapina.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u189	Dear colleagues! Xenia Lapina, group “For Ukraine!” I want to point out that this bill was designed to ban taxes during a crisis. And what it doesn't want to include in the order of the day is the government faction, and unfortunately, the government part of our faction is symptomatic that the government is planning to increase tax burden. And this is a disaster for the country, dear fellows! So to get out of the crisis by raising taxes, you can't. And we have to stop, really, this stupid populism when there's a microphone about meaningless laws being saved and meaningful laws just don't want to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u190	I am voting on the inclusion of the day-to-day draft Ordinance on ensuring the unhindered activity of the media during the 2009 pre-election period. Registration number 4363. Please vote. [[13:41:19]] For 319 They've put it in the order of the day. Let's move on to the question. The rapporteur is Ukrainian national deputy Tomenko Mikola Volodymyrovich, co-rapporteur. Who's gonna be on the committee? Landik Vladimir Ivanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u191	Dear colleagues! There is good tradition in the Ukrainian Parliament when we prepare for an election campaign, to protect all the subjects of the electoral campaign from possible abuses and obstacles to their activities. Parliament has traditionally been recommending to our Tax Administration, the National Council for Television and Broadcasting, other institutions that carry out checks not to abuse their rights when the presidential election campaign is going on. That's why we, the people's deputies: Tomenko, Kondratuk, Bagraev, Abdulin, Olena Bondarenko, Yuri Stec have registered the decree and please support you. I spoke with representatives of the National Council for Television and Radio and Taxpayers. They also understand the responsibility of not interpreting this as, say, an institution of power when an electoral campaign starts, exerting pressure on the interests of a candidate. Rather, these 90 or 120 days, as we vote, avoid interference with the media. The only proposal I would like to take into account, Volodymyr Mihajlovich, when we vote in general, given that the Supreme Council has not set a date for the presidential election campaign, paragraph 4, that this decision takes effect from the date of its adoption seems ambiguous and appropriate, since the first three paragraphs contain the phrase “for the pre-election campaign period”. This means that if we take a decision and set a date, then it will be clear that in 120 days or 90 days. That is, the decision will take effect for 120 or 90 days to remove the question as to when the Nacrad and the tax authorities should stop the verification processes. So, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I ask our team to support and exclude paragraph 4, as paragraph 1, 2 and 3 clearly predicts that it is in operation during the pre-election campaign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u192	Vladimir Mikolaiovich Landik. It just needs to be removed and everything, because we don't know exactly the date.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u193	The Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information in its work is periodically confronted with the obstacles to the professional activity of journalists at various levels. I will point out that in addition to the obvious illegal acts of authority, such as this, it was in a violent case with the release from work of the entire assembly of the newspaper Youth of Cherkaščina. It is not uncommon to try to influence journalists quietly, through checks, instructions, and illegal media decisions. For example, the Supreme District Council recently made a commitment to the local newspaper “Words” and “Radio” to revise the statutes, and editors in the ultimative form force an agreement with the head of the Paradise. All of this is contrary to legislation, which is confirmed by the legal and legal conclusions of the Ukrainian National Service and the National Journalist Association, but the government does not abandon its attempts to recruit journalists. Clearly, during the electoral period, similar efforts have been strengthened to threaten the objective and honest reporting of the electoral process in the media. Parliament must express its position and defend journalists and uphold the constitutional right of citizens to obtain reliable information. From the practice of previous campaigns, the way out is to set up a moratorium period for any media check. That's why our committee unanimously supported a draft regulation designed to remove legal, administrative, economic and organisational obstacles to the election of the President of Ukraine, to prevent possible abuse by the monitoring bodies in the course of verification.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u194	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u195	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u196	Dear colleagues! If you have no objection, where the words go: “ In 2009, in paragraphs 2 and 3, simply delete them. After the words “President of Ukraine, ” put a dot. The fourth paragraph is worded as follows: “This ruling takes effect with the start of the election campaign of the President of Ukraine.” And that will be understandable. With this in mind, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u197	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! So I'm talking to you, and I want to ask you, here we are today, in three minutes, we've taken two decisions on the Seaport and we've distributed 15.5 million in Turupin, without predicting where they came from. [[our minute]] It's just a populism terrible thing to do, because the Budget Act doesn't include people there think we're going to put something in there. Once again, we now take the decision, and once again, the populist one, because then we have to make a decision that ends in Ukraine's territory at the time of the elections of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. Are you going to stop by laws, by decree, to change some laws? You won't stop anything. And you don't have to stop. This will be a purely populist law again. It's a decree. You don't know that some of the media that's in the hands of the oligarchs today, that they're going to be equal to a metallurgical combination, even above them? You don't know that individual TV channels cost billions of dollars? You know that! So I want us to think about what we want. It's just populist to say that journalists, we're protecting you, whether we're saying that there's a Constitution in place in Ukraine, there's laws in force, and they're the guarantor of a Constitution that doesn't like the Constitution, but it will guarantee respect for rights and freedoms, including journalists. Even in the Criminal Code, we predicted the protection of the journalist's interests, absolutely! And today, no one prevents criminal cases like that. And if they go today in one second of air time to a thousand dollars on some popular channels, it's probably where tax collectors have to look where they're going and why they're going in the sky all the time. [[I don't, I don't want to make them popular.]] I'm definitely against the second point in this regulation, I'm asking you to remove it by taxpayers and then it'll just be the Cabinet of Ministers taking action. Let him use it, but we're not canceling any laws, I'm stressing that you know that, and it's just going to be sent to nowhere. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u198	Ariev, then Lukas. Olena Bondarenko, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u199	Dear colleagues! I can agree with Yuri Carmazin in his fears that we are protecting large channels of television. But believe me, big TV channels, which cost billions of dollars, where these advertising revenue, they're going to find a way to protect themselves without that determination. Today, we have to protect, first of all, the district media, the district, both public and private, with the greatest pressure and temptation to press on them during the pre-election campaign. It is for the protection of small, as if the languages of the local media that we accept this determination. So I ask you very much to support the committee's proposal and to vote in favour. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u200	People's deputy, Helen Bondarenko, is the BUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u201	Thank you very much! Bondarenko Elena, Party of Regions. I ask that this order be supported for almost the same reasons as my colleague, Mr. Ariev, said. And I would like to tell some of the scientists who are here to comment on everything and everything, if they are not dealing with it, let them not. In fact, it is precisely the risk that local regional television companies will be subject to verification, namely, by Nacrada during the pre-election period. You know what the situation is now in the National Council for Television and Broadcasting, it's a great temptation to pinch your tail, speaking harshly, to those television companies that think differently from anyone else in the National Council. Therefore, I ask once again to support the ruling and actually shield our television companies from the regulator's pressure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u202	Dear colleagues, the factions have already come out, I can't do two of the factions, it's a reduced procedure, you know. Dear colleagues, I will now put to the vote, I ask attention, to be taken as a basis in view of the warnings here, but with such clarifications: in paragraph 2 and paragraph 3 “in 2009” the words are deleted, paragraph 4 of such content “this ruling takes effect with the start of the election campaign of the President of Ukraine”. Taking these particulars into account, the vote to be taken on the basis of draft Decree 4363 on the basis. Please vote. [[13:51:49]] For-360 We took it as a foundation. Now. Just a minute. Yuri Carmazin suggested that the second sentence be deleted. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm asking you to make a determination. [[13:52:16]] For-7. The offer is not supported. I am now voting on the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a whole as a decree. [[Registration number 4363]] Please vote. [[13:52:43]] For 361 I'll take the order. We will only need, honourable colleagues, to ask our Committee on State Building to draft decrees on the election of the resident of Ukraine and to make a decision in the next plenary week. Dear colleagues, there is a vote on the inclusion in the agenda of a proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of a bill amending the Ukrainian Television and Radio Act. [[on reducing the impact of the global economic crisis on electronic media activities in Ukraine]] Registration number 4480. Please vote. [[13:53:36]] For 223 The decision is not. Dear colleagues, we've had a practice that we've come back to, so let's go through this practice. I put to the vote the question of the inclusion in the agenda of a bill amending the Ukrainian Television and Radio Act. [[on reducing the impact of the global economic crisis on electronic media activities in Ukraine]] Registration number 4480. Please vote. [[13:54:20]] For 255 They've put it in the order of the day. We're back in the morning. Yes. I am now voting on the inclusion of Decree 4480 in the agenda of the day. Please vote. [[13:54:48]] For 251 Questions are included in the agenda. We continue the morning session until 14 o’clock in the morning for 15 minutes. We also have Bill 4502 to complete our consideration of all issues. The rapporteur is the national deputy of Ukraine, Landik Vladimir Ivanovich. He's a reporter. And you'll be the co-reporter from the committee? Well, please. Helen Bondarenko from the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u203	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Your opinion is proposed by Bill 4480 on amending the Ukrainian Television and Radio Act, which we have jointly submitted with colleagues at the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information by Olena Bondarenko and Viktor Ukolovi. [[on reducing the impact of the global economic crisis on electronic media activities in Ukraine]] The bill proposes to regulate legislatively the question of establishing the size of the assembly for the issuance and extension of language licenses and software providers. Let me remind you of the history of the question. A little over a month ago, we discussed here in this room a similar bill, which I was the author of, regarding the size of the licensing assembly. Then we didn't have one single vote to keep us from going bankrupt, and I'm telling you, from bankruptcy, it's a little bit of a radio organization, it's a regional one. That's what I'm telling our colleagues and Yavorowski and others, who then told me they were oligarchic. The oligarchs have paid for everything ahead of schedule for perhaps ten years — that is, the little radio and teleorganizations that want to take the oligarchy companies under their wing, including by giving us this licensing congregation on the mountain. The advantage of this bill is that the established methodology of the licensing assembly will contribute to the development of domestic production programmes and national television organizations, the spread of a large number of children's programs and a stable approach to the size of the licensing assembly. I'm telling you, we had it back then, Carmazin noticed that there was no calculation method. We're giving this calculation method. In this country's budget, it's not going to change anything, but it's going to give you an advantage.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u204	Give me a chance.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u205	It will only give priority to those who produce their products and especially to children’s programs. And I'm going to give you an example that we have right now. 28 radio companies have already ceased to exist in Ukraine because they were unable to pay $9.5 million in total. It didn't end up in prison anymore. 19 million dollars is already at stake because they can't pay. I'll give you a little example of gin. There is a small radio on the Dnipropetrovska in Pavlovgrad called “Radio Toma”. How many girls are there who have been working for three years to break this license? They were called the price of this license 150 thousand. They won’t make it in five years. And they have children, they have parents who are sick.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u206	Vladimir Ivanovich, thank you. Helen Bondarenko from the committee, please, the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u207	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, I would like to remind you that, literally, just over a month ago, we have considered this bill, and we are short of political reasons for just one vote. At that time, this half of the room, and this half of the hall in general, agreed that the bill should be adopted. Absolutely right, my colleague, who says that it is a matter of saving local small radio organizations because the licence fee that has grown up is not possible for these small actors of our television, radio space. Once again, there is absolutely no policy here. But I warn those who don't vote, politics will come. Local journalists will know the enemy in person, the one who actually buried the industry. So be merciful and give your votes for the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u208	Dear colleagues, please calm down and sign up for the performance. If anyone insists, write down who insists. May I have your attention, please? Names of the national MPs, please. George Carmazin, Jaroslav Suhi, signed up. Yuri Anatolyevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u209	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Ladies and gentlemen, we hear a lot of air shocks or major bills here. Before that, we voted on a purely populist bill to please someone. I would like to tell the surprise MPs that, thank God, without blackmail, MP Landik has proposed the evaluation method where the formula is developed, where under the letter "B" is the size of the discount for spreading its own transmissions. This stimulates the production of its own by these small companies. And praise God! And if the foreign MPs had passed the law they were proposing last time, what kind of law would that be? Then I say, dear friends, this bill needs to be adopted and, despite what I see, there are suggestions that for the second reading, including the science and expertise department, I see that it is well written enough. The fact that we forced him to work on it improved him. But I would like to make such a request to you: I will ask you to accept it both in the first and in the second readings. But by making changes to a separate article, and we're only making changes to article 31, we can't go up to the level of knowledge that we need to make changes comprehensively to the law and not just one, but to a few that we need to get systematization. We have bred about 5,000 laws now. We have butterfly laws that just fly out of the pen today, and then we sign them by Vladimir Mikhailovich and the President, and we print them. Let's move away from this, let's approach complexity, let's move away from this system, let's go back to the codes of law, including the media. And we won't have any problems. I support this bill because there's a calculation, there's a logic to it, there's a methodology. And please vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u210	Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u211	Dear colleagues, if there are people in the hall who believe that Majdan has brought freedom of speech to Ukraine as a major achievement, they are simply obliged to vote in favour of a bill that will prevent the destruction of regional and local speech in most of Ukraine’s population. I urge everyone to vote on both the basis and as a whole as a bill. We are simply obliged, we are destined to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u212	Yes. All those who signed up are speaking. The committee's proposal is to adopt the bill as a basis. Now let's put it on the basis of the vote, and then we'll see. Based on the base. I'm putting this motion to a vote. Registration number 4480, draft Act amending the Ukrainian Television and Radio Act. [[on reducing the impact of the global economic crisis on electronic media activities in Ukraine]] For adoption of the project as a basis. Please vote. [[14:03:28]] For 270. The bill was adopted as a basis. [[for – 270]] Dear colleagues, here's a proposition in general. Who denies it? There's a denial. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, we're working with you. If there's a denial of either of the national MPs. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! I'm asking for your attention! Well, we did likewise to you; we denied Sergey Shevchuk, and we did not receive him. So let's not push for a violation of the Rules. Dear colleagues! The committee will work, we'll take it. Please! [[B in m in s a l in]] I said Oleg Lazko will deny it, I said no. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? We need to include in the agenda a bill amending article 85 of the Banking and Banking Act. [[on the protection of the rights of commercial bank investors]] [[Registration number 4502]] Please vote. [[2:04:59]] For 325 We've put it into the agenda. The rapporteur is the national deputy of Prassolov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u213	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished members of the people! The Committee on Finance and Banking considered, at its meeting, draft law 4502 submitted by the People's Deputy of Azarov. And I would just like to say briefly what the essence of this law is. Here it is proposed: the first is to reduce from 6 months to 3 months the maximum duration of the moratorium when the temporary administration comes to the bank as decided by the National Bank of Ukraine; and the second is to abolish the moratorium on the payment of deposits to individuals who invest in banks. You know that today the National Bank has established a temporary administration in 15 banks out of 184 active ones, and as a result of such decisions, simple investors are lining up, demeaning, asking someone to return their own, personalally earned and deferred money. We therefore propose that the Committee support the bill and vote to adopt it as a basis for first reading. With regard to the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, it recommends the adoption of the draft law on first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u214	Please sign up, Your Honor. The record's coming up. Sign up. Please put the names of the people's deputies on the board. Oleg Lazko. Vadim Koleschenko will speak after him. I'd like to ask your respectable colleagues to do it quickly.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u215	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Our faction has decided to support this bill because it really regulates important issues for investors – individuals – regarding the payment of deposits. But, Your Honor Vladimir Mikhailovich, I have a question for you and for the head of the Committee on Finance and Banking of Azarov Mikli Janović. Last week, we voted the law in general, “for” – 300, the votes of the national deputies, who are not allowed to expel people from their homes when these apartments are credited. As far as I'm concerned, it's been almost two weeks now, this Supreme Council law has not come out of the President's office on your signature. According to my information, this law is still on the Committee of Mr. Azarov and is not signed under the Rules, nor signed by the Head of the Supreme Council, the Head of the Committee and the Head of the Secretariat. I would like to draw attention to this, almost 350 deputies voted in favour of this law, two weeks have passed, the problem seems to have been settled, and the law for the President's signature has not yet arrived. So I would like to ask you a question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u216	I immediately answer, I have just found out in the Apparatus that the committee does not want to pass this law. Today this law will be signed without the signature of the persons concerned and sent to the President. Vadim Koleschenko, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u217	Dear colleagues, we have all had problems that have been resolved over the past 6 to 7 months. We were overwhelmed by complaints from investors who could not recover their deposits. This is a problem that has covered our banking system today, and we must certainly ensure the right of everyone, every individual who supports not only the banking system with his money, but the financial system of our State. This protection is necessary to them because it will be the first nuisances of confidence, both in the banking system and in the confidence of citizens in our State. The adoption of this law will allow for another brick to protect citizens from the will of banks, from their non-professional activities. On the other hand, it will enable us to recover the financial system. We believe that this bill must certainly be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u218	The People's Deputy of Argevite, the faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u219	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that this is about a bank with a six-month interim administration, a bank that needs a major recovery and a time for this major recovery. The adoption of this bill, I'm sure today's financial crisis will have diametric opposite effects that you've just talked about. The author does not even explain why we are reducing this standard from six to three months. And in this way, we're not going to cure the bank, we're going to push it into artificial bankruptcy. Let's remodel. It's not hard today. If a citizen learns that a bank where a temporary administration is established can even make a permanent deposit. What will be done? They'll come. Today, we have 15 banks in Ukraine with temporary administration. In their accounts today, 28 billion dollars are only natural persons. I'm not talking about legal. The Population Deposit Guarantee Fund is now 4.6 billion. Please tell me who's making the difference. Who compensates legal persons? Please tell me, who will take this responsibility? Next. I'm convinced that this rule will only increase investor panic today and destabilize the banking system. And nothing to do with what you said will happen to us. I would also like to remind you that today there is a norm when the National Bank has the right to lower the plank from six to two, to three months in that bank that is already recovering and correcting its liquidity. I would also like to point out that the National Bank agrees with what I just said. And among other things, the Scientific and Experimental Authority also recommends that we listen to these positions of the National Bank. In addition, these legislative rules today will make it impossible for the process of the Cabinet of Ministers to be carried out in part of the state's capitalization of banks. And among other things, the world’s experience shows that even when the work is completed by its temporary commission, the removal of restrictions should be consistent. Please don't talk about people when you're doing worse for them. I suggest you don't accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u220	National MP Gordienko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u221	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. I pressed the "against" button not because the faction of the Company of Ukraine would vote against this bill. I pressed the “against” policy that is being implemented in the state relative to a million investors and the policy that private commercial banks are pursuing. Last week, I was with my colleagues in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. A large number of people who have suffered family distress and are unable to recover their own poor savings for the treatment of serious illness. Yesterday, in Gorlovka, I was personally contacted by many in the city of Gorlovka. Similar references from the region of Poltava, Kyiv, and Western Ukraine. Dear colleagues! This cannot be the case when the country is in crisis, when it is difficult for everyone to live, and the banking sector and banks are 88 percent rich today. So I propose that we support this bill by voting for it in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u222	Dear colleagues! The statement has been completed. The proposal for a committee to adopt is based on the draft Act amending article 85 of the Banking and Banking Act. [[on the protection of the rights of commercial bank investors]] Registration number 4502. Please vote. [[14:14:08]] For 334 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! Please, Papiev, about what? May I have your attention, we've got half a minute to go.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u223	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Bill 4567 was under consideration today and it was suggested that this bill should be voted on in the second reading and in general. We've just had a conversation with lawyers, a formula in which there is no way today in the law to restore the rights of Ukrainian citizens who have lost unemployment assistance since December 2008. Therefore, the proposal is to re-vote this bill to the second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-10-m0.u224	Let's do it this way, dear fellows, one minute. Now we're out of this room, we're not going to vote, we're going to knock down the bill. Come on, if the committee's ready, there's no objection, we can look at it tomorrow and that's it. They've already agreed on all positions, there's nothing to shorten. Tomorrow, when they agree to the final, they will make, we will consider, and we will make the final decision. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. From the 15th hour, work on committees and factions. Tomorrow we will continue the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at 10 a.m. on schedule for Thursday. Thank you.
