ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u1	Honorable National Deputies, Visitors and Visitors to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:07]] They registered in the 429 national deputies’ session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Eduardo Anatolyovich Prutnik. Let us welcome our colleague and wish him every success. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to provide you with information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary on 14 January 2009. 15 issues of the agenda, including 13 bills and 2 draft regulations, have been considered. As a result of the review: 4 laws and 2 decrees were passed, 8 bills were adopted as a basis, 1 bill was rejected. Dear colleagues, the list of issues proposed for discussion and decision-making today is given to you. There are some questions. I'd like five minutes, then. Then please write down to exchange your thoughts on the organization of our work today. Please sign in. On the board is the name of the National Deputies. Ivan Stepanovich Plush, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u2	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Kirilenko, Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u3	Viacheslav Anatoliovich Kirilenko, microphone, please turn on.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u4	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I ask that you pass on to Kseniya Liapinius.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u5	Xenia Leapina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u6	Group “For Ukraine! ” Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that today small entrepreneurs are gathered under the walls of the Supreme Council. I told you yesterday that there is a big problem with the approved tax law that we have with you in the first reading of the Law on Local Taxes and Congregations, where there is a significant increase, well, it is planned to increase taxes directly from the smallest businesses trading in markets. A great request from all the factions, there were gathered from Odessa, both from Cherkaskie, and from the Hmelnit region entrepreneurs, and from other different areas, pay attention to them, talk to them, ask them, they will better explain to you what and how to vote. And I'm asking you, this is what will help our citizens survive the economic crisis. Note this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u7	People's MP Philippeenko, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u8	To Ivan Grigorovitch Kirilenko, please pass on the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u9	Who? Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u10	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The agenda for today, for Thursday, includes 59 bills: two thirds of them social, which are extremely important, one third of the economic issues that define the legal basis for the functioning of the economy in a crisis. Our faction proposes, Vladimir Mikhajlovich, to put to the vote an absolute majority, well where, of course, it's not the second reading, to put an absolute majority of the bills under reduced procedure, because they are considered by the committees, it's decided accordingly. And the second question to put to the vote is to continue working today's plenary day until the conclusion of the entire agenda. Please support our faction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u11	The national deputy Gordienko hands over the right to speak to Matthew's Valentina Grigorovitch. Please. Matthew Valentin Grigorovich, please. Please turn on Matthew's Valentin Grigorovich, not Vladimir Josephovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u12	Thank you. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, in September of this year, is 100 years old from the time our eminent Ukrainian medical scientists, the Professors of Pattern and Strazesco first developed the principles of consumer diagnostics of acute myocardial infarction in the world. In this regard, the representatives of all factions are the authors of the relevant draft decree. Sadly, though, today’s consideration of this draft decree is foreseen at the end of our plenary session, which is the question on page 11. I would still like to refer this question to the second page, where is the chapter “For inclusion in the agenda and decision-making”. That would be, I think, very right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u13	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u14	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Jaroslav Suchy, the city of Zaporozhye, the Party of the Regions I want to say in support of Kseniya Ljapina's speech that such a protest rally took place in Zaporozhye, where local entrepreneurs are concerned about the mass unemployment problem, and have come up as a sign of protest against the excessive tax evasion that is imposed on them. So maybe it would be appropriate, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to give them any broadcasts on the street when they arrived? Or let someone come out and talk to them. But it's different. I'm looking closely at the order of today's and yesterday's, and you know, and where's the crisis, where's the crisis? We need to work on Sundays, Saturdays, and nights. For what purpose? Where are they? Are there laws passed by the President or by the government that have anti-crisis orientation? Things like that and empty bottles like how to dispose of them are not the fight against the crisis, and beautiful topics that are being discussed here, so we're going to have a look at them.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u15	Oleg Lazko. It's the Timoshenko Street.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u16	Please pass the word to John Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u17	Ivan Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u18	Dear Volodymyr Mihajlovich, regarding our colleagues' proposals, Jaroslav Suhogo, Ksenija Ljapina. The faction will support if the bill on local taxes and congregations is voted on today’s order. The faction, of course, this article, which is taxed seven times its size, will by no means give a single vote for this proposal. We understand that a million 200,000 jobs are in these conditions for the people. We're going to stand up for saving these jobs. So, if there's an insistence on putting this bill and taking down this article that's now causing this excitement, please let's put this article in order of day, and cancel how we cancelled the solicitation chamber in due course. Please, no questions. But once again, colleagues, today we need to work a full day and consider the agenda, and we need to vote in the hall, including a reduced procedure for considering individual bills. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, and once again, please put this proposal to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u19	Dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts on how to organize our work. And now, about the ones that the national MPs spoke to. The proposal of Kseniya Ljapina, if there is no objection, dear colleagues, I would ask that when we consider these bills, give a broadcast to the street so that people can hear our position. And I'd like to ask my fellow national MPs to come over and calm them down during the break. I'm sure we'll make the right decision. As for Valentin Grigorovitch Matviev's proposal, maybe we'll go along with it, honourable colleagues, we'll have organizational questions first, i.e. draft regulations, let's raise a draft ruling that Valentin Grigorovitch Matviev spoke about -- registration number 3561, and for the purity of our work, and let's look at draft regulation 3572 on the formation of the TSC for military property. Let's look at all these organizational issues and move on. Is there no objection? Now with regard to the broadcast, we've already agreed on the offer of Jaroslav Mikhailovich. Now, at John Kirilenko's suggestion. May I have your attention, please? I'll put it to a vote. One minute! Well, we'll be right after that. Dear colleagues, one minute, calm down. We exchanged thoughts, I put to the vote the proposals that were. After that, you will speak. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please record again for three minutes. Three minutes. Please have the name of the national MPs on the board. National MP of Kzarykov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u20	Hand it over to the tailor.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u21	Mikola Kravchenko microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u22	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Well, we're really in the Dried One's way. The order of the day here does not reflect the reality in which we live today. Yesterday's presidential statement, yesterday's vacchanal, which they created today with gas. This morning, they claim that Ukraine is fully secured by gas. Once again, there is a technological catastrophe, and industry is halted. To date, homes have been built. All cities are at risk of being shut down. Please, Vladimir Mihajlovich, gather the faction leaders, and if necessary, put the matter to the vote. We need to go to the President, so he doesn't have to fly to Poland.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u23	Give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u24	It is necessary that he does not fly and show the secret of the State under the heading “Perfectly Secret” to export documents that he was not allowed to carry to Poland through the gas transport system, but specifically to do the work that he crashed. On his initiative, Ukraine today has no gas.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u25	I got it. The People's Deputies, the faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u26	Please pass the word to Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u27	Ivan Kirilenko. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u28	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, really, when we look at the agenda, 59 bills, and when colleagues in the hall say where the crisis is and where the crisis is, then I ask you, and the faction asks you, it is in your rights as chairman. There are anti-crisis situations that the opposition government is the last to stand. I call 3306 “Overcoming the Crisis” the last, 3391 the opposition bill stands before the last, 3396 the anti-crisis law also stands last, 3556 the pension reform and also the impoverishment of the pension security crisis stands at all last. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I ask these four bills to be put up as high as possible. Anti-crisis. Please. It's your right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u29	Victor Slavuta, faction of the Party of the Regions. Who? You're handing it over to the circle.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u30	Give it to Kruglo.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u31	Please, Mikoli Petrovich Kruglov's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u32	Dear colleagues, I would like to pay attention to the bill proposed for inclusion, 3459-1. We said on Monday that this bill was pushed past the committee for the first reading. There was no second reading, he was pushed back into the hall and then started to cry factions of coalitions about what oh, what poor people, what bad laws we do. What are you doing, Vladimir Mikhailovich? We agreed that without a second reading, this bill could not be put into the hall at all. And yet, you're still doing everything you can to push this one out. These are the people who are standing there, they have to listen to what anti-crisis law is when you skin them. Give the word to Papiev. Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u33	Please, Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u34	Dear Volodymira Mihajlovich, I ask you to include in the agenda the bill 0924, a bill on the system of accounting and the collection of the only social contribution to the general public social insurance. This bill was, 0924, in the order of the day of this session. From the group of National Deputies, representatives of all factions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I ask to put to the vote the question of inclusion in the agenda today, Bill 0924. I ask you to support this very important law, which will make it easier for you in general to collect and collect contributions to pension insurance and other forms of insurance.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u35	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask my colleague, Mikola Petrovich Kruglov, to take the floor, he's in the Supreme Council, and he has a higher education, in any case, a diploma. I'm not pushing anything, it's a committee decision and a commission. Once again, the commission of the committee to prepare for the second reading. As you have prepared, what quality of the law, we will evaluate by making the right decision. If there is no solution, we will consider the matter and then consider it. I'm doing the will of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Mikola Petrovich, your authority doesn't allow you to act like you're in the market. Please. And as far as I'm concerned, that's why. As far as Bill 0924 is concerned, we've discussed today, Your Honor, this is a question. Legal authorities, the Chief Legal Authority, have sent you their proposals. So please listen, work, agree on all the unagreed points, and we will consider, when he is ready, that Mikola Petrovich has no basis for such baseless allegations. Because you told me earlier that I was great and talented. Please calm down. This is the position that is a message to the Committee on Transfers, there is no table, let's move it. Calm down, please. You've been spotted on the list. Dear people's deputies, now they were to finish by 0924, I ask Michael Papiev together. I'm asking you, along with the Chief Legal Authority, when he's ready, let's take a look at him. Is there no objection? All of it. Now, about the proposals made here by the MPs, first of all, by John Grigorovich Kirilenko, that we need to consider today all the bills so that we don't move now, that was the agreed position on the Conciliation Council, which put bills first and foremost. That's why I'm putting a motion to vote so that we can look at the bills that are going to go to the first reading on a reduced procedure, including draft regulations. I would like to vote for that. [[10:18:11]] For 206 Decision taken. The second proposal, my fellow colleagues, that we consider today the issues that are set out on the schedule for Thursday, including those proposals that were made by colleagues, including Law 09 and 24, if it is ready, let's take the evening meeting to work until the end of the consideration of the issues identified by the schedule for today. I'm putting this motion to the vote, please vote. Please vote. [[10:18:55]] For 217 The decision is not taken. Is that what you want? The factions? Please. Region Party – 0, "Block of Timoshenko" – 155, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" – 42, Communist faction – 0, "Block of Lithuania" – 20. There'll be a proposal in the process, we'll put it to the vote again, but at the morning session. The issue of making changes to the calendar plan for the third session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is under review. Reporter, Alexander Sergiyovich, you'll be speaking from the committee, right? Head of the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Security of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Alexander Sergiyovich Efremov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u36	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! Yesterday, the Committee considered two draft regulations on our further work for the next two weeks. The first draft of the decision was made by representatives of the Party of the Regions, in which it was proposed to work in plenary for two weeks, which we were given on vacation. This proposal was not supported by the Committee. The second proposal, which was made by the representatives of BUT at number 3605, is to work next week in committees and within a week in the districts. This proposal has been supported by most committees. It is therefore necessary, Vladimir Mihajlovich, to put two draft decrees to the vote. Much support will be available in the Hall, and the draft regulation will be adopted. I request that draft regulation 3605 be put to the vote on the work of the committees next week and one week in the districts for a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u37	Your Honor, will there be any objection if I put draft regulation 3605 to the vote? I'll read it. The Supreme Council of Ukraine decides: to amend the calendar plan for the third session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call, approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order of 11 July 2008 "The Supreme Council of Ukraine News" 2008 No. 40-41 of 284 with the following changes: the week 19-23 of January is committee work and factions; the week 26-30 of January is the work with voters. [[No. 336-6]] And the second. This decision takes effect from the moment it is adopted. I mean, we're not shutting down the Supreme Council. She will continue her activities. And in the next session, we close the previous session and open a new session. I'm putting to the vote a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for adoption as a decree. [[Registration number 3605]] Please vote. [[10:22:19]] For 266 Decision taken. Can I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u38	Dear colleagues, we had a discussion with you yesterday in this room about arithmetic and who thinks so. The result of the vote showed who thought and whether the Party of the Regions was correct by highlighting the coalition here on the board. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u39	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this means that the Supreme Council does not go on vacation and will work. And what I'd like to say is that we're here today to demonstrate solidarity, not cynicism, because some people already have tickets, and now they're showing some sort of purity in their ranks. The bill on changes in the composition of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is announced. Reporter: Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko It's about committee changes. Adam Martinyuk, please. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u40	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I propose to do the same as we did with the previous decrees. So let's say that there are three decisions on committee changes that don't go out to every author, and then the committee head, I suggest that the profile committee go out on all three of the reports, because they're personnel changes in committees, and we're much more economical than time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u41	Alexander Sergiyyovich, you can come from the committee to give your opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u42	Honorary colleagues, on 14 January of this year, reviewed a draft decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine amending the Supreme Council Decision on the election of Heads, First Deputys, Deputy Heads, Secretaries, Members of the Sixth Council Committee and the election of the Head, First Deputy Head, Secretariat, members of the Special Supervisory Committee of the Supreme Council on matters of privatization, submitted by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Simonenko, Peter Mikolayovich, number 3553. The draft decree proposes the election of Ukrainian national deputy Perestenko Marina Volodymyrovna, a member of the Communist Party of Ukraine’s parliamentary faction, a member of the Committee on Agricultural Policy, Land Relations, by exempting her from the duties of a member of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy. The quota of the Communist Party MP at the Supreme Council Committee on Agrarian Policy was not used. It is also proposed that the National Deputy of Ukraine, Kralkov Evgen Igorevich, a member of the same faction, a member of the Tax and Customs Committee instead of the National Deputy Prestenko Marina Volodymyrna. A representative of Perestenko Marina Volodymyrna is working from the Communist Party of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy. The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft decision to consider and support it. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u43	Ladies and gentlemen, will you not have warnings that we, upon hearing the report of the chairman of the committee, will put these decisions to the vote? You don't? I then put to the vote the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, registration number 3553, amending the decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of heads, first deputies, deputy heads, secretaries, members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth vocation and election of the head, first deputy, deputy heads, secretary and members of the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council on matters of privatization." Please vote. [[10:26:22]] For 394 Decision taken. A draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, registration number 3615, is put to the vote. It's given to you. Please vote. [[10:26:50]] For 397 Decision taken. A draft regulation, registration number 3616, is being announced for review. Please vote. [[10:27:18]] For 368 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the draft Ordinance on Parliamentary Hearings on the Status of Justice in Ukraine, announced for consideration on March 18, 2009. Dear colleagues, what is the question? In order to consider the bills on issues of reforming further justice, it is proposed to hold parliamentary hearings, to consider draft laws that are available and then to determine how to proceed. Wouldn't it be a warning to support this draft decision? A draft Supreme Council regulation on the conduct of parliamentary hearings on the state of justice in Ukraine is under way. [[Registration number 3604]] Please vote. [[10:28:27]] For 411 Decision taken. The draft Amendment Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine "On the Establishment of a Temporary Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Verification of the National Bank of Ukraine during the Financial Crisis" is being announced for consideration. Reporter: People's Deputy Poloneyev Yuri Volodymyrovich, please. I'd like to ask briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u44	Honourable Head, Honourable People's Deputies, Honorary Voters, Supreme Council of Ukraine passed Decree No. 700 of 18 December 2008 on the establishment of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the verification of the activities of the National Bank of Ukraine during the period of financial crisis. This decision proposed that the TSC review the activities of the National Bank of Ukraine in carrying out its main constitutional function – ensuring the stability of Ukraine’s monetary unit. According to the previous TSK report, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted Decree No. 831 on 26 December 2008, which recognized the work of the National Bank as a failure to provide the primary function of the National Bank of Ukraine, the stability of the money unit, which threatened national, economic and sovereignty of Ukraine. In the process of the TSK, it was concluded that the refinancing procedures carried out by the National Bank of Ukraine during October-December 2008 and the organisation of the currency market were such that, on the spot of the Interim Investigation Commission, they were opaque, biased in favour of individual financial structures, had signs of corruption and had led to the widespread and sharp destabilization of national currency and inflation. On the basis of these conclusions, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has expressed its mistrust with the head and rule of the National Bank of Ukraine and has also requested the President of Ukraine to submit an immediate application for the release of the head of the National Bank of Ukraine, as well as to submit a nomination for the head of the National Bank for the consideration of the Supreme Ukraine. Since the adoption of the decision, Ukraine’s currency market has deteriorated significantly: Ukraine’s national currency continues to be undervalued, and more and more households and businesses in the country are being lost. The National Bank of Ukraine is actively pursuing a policy of raising the dollar to a bracelet. So since the beginning of the year at the NBA foreign exchange auctions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u45	Give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u46	The currency first on course 8.21, then 8,51, 8.62. This NBA policy led to cash rates gradually rising to 9.20-9.30 in January. At the same time, the official exchange rate of the NBA for January was unchanged – 7.70. The very procedure of intervention and open foreign exchange auctions is of great concern. Instead of calming down the market, the National Bank is doing its best to devalue the bracelet. Another aspect of the Bank's inaction: instead of a normal response to the fair and legislative requirement of the Government and the Supreme Council of Ukraine in 2009 to reconcile the extent of the refinancing of commercial banks, the NBA management is not only ignoring the requirements of the law, making public statements of the offended and depressed instead of developing balanced and balanced mechanisms for such reconciliation, the NBA management is sending messages to commercial banks that the refinancing of the current needs of banks is halted as a result of the government's actions. By a decree now proposed to the honourable national deputies, the interim commission of inquiry on the verification of the activities of the NBA during the financial crisis requests that its activities continue. Unfortunately, the crisis is just taking turns. The Ukrainian Parliament, all society needs effective monitoring of the National Bank's activities. But at the same time, we want to draw the attention of the whole society, once again to the attention of the President of Ukraine, that since the adoption of the Supreme Council's decree of 26 December last year the situation has deteriorated, no serious conclusions have been reached by the leadership of the NBA. The president of the country, who is the primary guarantor of the economic security of citizens and the Ukrainian business, is silent that there is no problem at all. We, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which represents the interests of the entire nation, have to give the President the last warning about the need to guarantee him one of the basic provisions of the Constitution of Ukraine, the stability of the national currency. This means, first of all, an appropriate response to the Supreme Council ruling of December 26 of last year.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u47	I'm asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u48	People's deputies would like to support Decree 3547: regarding the extension of the TSC's mandate. If there is no response from the President, the TSK will recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine take more radical measures at the next meeting, which have already been adopted by the members of the TSK at the last meeting, namely, to remove the higher management of the NBA, to require a report from the President of Parliament on his assessment of monetary policy in crisis situations. The relevant decree has already been registered in Parliament by the people’s deputies. Thank you for your attention. Please support the decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u49	Thank you. Please take the seat of the committee. Mr. Alexander Sergiyovich, the committee on this subject supports the draft decision: to extend the term of office of the interim commission of inquiry?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, the Committee considered the matter yesterday. Given that temporary investigators of special commissions have the right to work within a year, we have no reason not to vote in favour. The committee supported the decision to extend the term for six months. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u51	Dear colleagues, when there are no warnings. I'll put it to a vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] What, what? The discussion, well, let's talk about it. Two for, two for, please. Two, two, go ahead. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Lukyanov National Deputy, faction of the Party of Regions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u52	Honourable colleagues of deputies, respected citizens of Ukraine. The actual work of the Commission must be supported and continued, because the scale of the problem and the reasons that led to the destabilization of the financial market is much wider than the pre-eminent range of issues. We see that, in this situation, the Government has actually destroyed the financial market, brought imbalances to the market, to the external trade balance. We see a huge negative external trade balance, a huge excess of imports over exports. What's he talking about? This indicates that the Government has targeted jobs in Ukraine during the year and has done everything to make Ukrainian citizens increasingly poor in order to reduce living standards in Ukraine. This is the action and contribution of the current Government of Timoshenko. On the other hand, we see the President covering the actions of the National Bank of Ukraine, leading to the collapse of the financial system. Indeed, in this system, in this situation we must demand the resignation of the President, the declaration of impeachment by Yushchenko, the hearing of the Government and the expression of mistrust by the Government, because we cannot continue to mock our own people. The next moment, we see that the key factor in this situation is the collapse of the gas market and the crisis, instead of the development in Ukraine, what has destroyed the Government, it is destroying the economy and the European Union. We therefore demand the shared responsibility of the President, the National Bank and the Government of Timoshenko, populism and the destruction of Ukraine. Unfortunately, these are the facts that we have encountered in the work of the Commission. Therefore, the Commission's actions must be supported, and I ask the entire Chamber to support the work of the Commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u53	Ivan Kirilenko, please. Commits the right to speak to Oleg Laszko. Easy.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u54	Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. On December 26, the Supreme Council adopted a decree expressing mistrust to the government and head of the National Bank. By this same decree, Parliament called on President Yushchenk to immediately submit, as required by article 85 of the Constitution, the application for the release of Nazbank Stelmak's head and the proposal of a new, more adequate head candidature. NBU. The decree was voted in favour of 380 national deputies, including all representatives of the factions of the Supreme Council. At the same time, the President ignored Parliament’s demand. And this is because even the high-ranking officials of his Secretariat have claimed corruption in the activities of the NBA government, particularly the deputy head of the Secretariat of Alexander Schlapak at the briefing of 30.10.2008. Moreover, even President Yushchenko himself, on the 2nd of May 2008, has officially threatened with severe personnel decisions regarding the leadership of the NBA: “The President is not satisfied with Nazbank’s leadership on the stability of exchange rate policy and gives him days to stabilize this policy.” I gave Yushchenko his press service. But it has been a month and a half since that application. In December 2008 alone, the official exchange rate for dollar bracelets fell almost to a bracelet, up to seven $70s, and the informal exchange rate now stands at almost 10 dollars. In the first half of January alone, the dollar’s cash exchange increased by one bracelet. Can such actions be considered by the NBA to be a stabilization of exchange rate policy? Hardly. There is even information that when the bracelet’s course collapsed, the first deputy head of the NBU Shapowalov rested in Mauritius. For what money in the Pacific lands? Tens of thousands of dollars. Isn't it for the banks they transferred the refinancing for? The country’s gold reserves continue to decline rapidly. In December 2008 alone, they dropped by 1.2 billion.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u55	Give me a chance. Dear colleagues, Carmazin is handing over the right to speak. Then you have two more minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u56	In most cases these costs were sold by Nazbank’s management to several commercial banks, which in turn had already been reselled to speculators. A few months more effective in paws and transparent monetary policies and countries will not have enough currency to pay for critical imports, especially energy carriers. The irresponsible policies of Nutzbank make the foreign debt of the state more expensive and burdensome, as well as the external debts of Ukrainian entrepreneurs, Ukrainian banks. The same Naftogaz of Ukraine will have to buy dollars to pay gas at a higher rate. It's nothing less than laundering money from a state-owned enterprise. The exchange rate train, a sharp increase in the dollar’s cash exchange rate, beats the family budgets of millions of Ukrainians with housing loans, automobiles, and foreign - currency household equipment. The difference between the old $5.05 and the current over 9 dollars resulted in Ukrainian dollar loans rising by 78 percent, while some banks now require up to 34 percent of the year - olds to pay their bracelets for only three years. Serious foreign exchange overpayments increase the amount of non-refundable loans, resulting in bankruptcy and default on many commercial banks — the total paralysis of the financial system. The rapid decline in the exchange rate, the increase in the payment of monetary loans, has sparked inflation in Ukraine. In recent months it has been the markets that depend on the import and the dollar. First of all, it is a strategically important drug and drug market. The fault is that the patients are now forced to overpay for imported insulin and aspirin lies with Nazbank, as well as with the President, who stopped the government’s decision to limit the commercial allowance for medicines. The sharp increase in foreign currency credit costs reduces the purchasing power of the population, threatens the deterioration of the business’s economic activity, as well as tax revenues to the State budget, and according to the income of budgeters, pensioners, unprotected social security benefits that are paid by the State. The question of changing Nazbank's leadership is a lacquer paper, which is also an attempt for Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u57	Thank you. Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u58	Let's keep the possibility of fighting corruption in the higher offices. The word behind the President is the responsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u59	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of draft regulation 3547, which concerns the continuation of the work of the Interim Investigation Commission, so that it can complete its work within six months. In addition, there was a proposal that we should do everything possible to ensure that the decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine are implemented and that this was accompanied by a proposal to add another paragraph, I ask you not to interfere, add another paragraph, re-apply to the President of Ukraine with an urgent request to submit an application for the release of the head of the National Bank and to submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a nomination for the head of the National Bank. I think, given this proposal, you can put a vote on the draft ruling as a ruling, please vote. [[10:43:41]] For 372 The solution. Please, Alexander Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u60	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, you're actually affording unacceptable things. We have an appropriate draft order, which you have now practically put to the vote, registered and considered separately. You took note of the fact that there was no agreement reached at the Conciliation Council yesterday, the main paragraph of the draft regulation was combined with the draft regulation. Then, if we consider such hypostasi, we must add a paragraph to this ruling on the question to the Government, because in the situation that we are never going to find in the State if we do not consider the combination of actions by the authorities that deal with the same matter. If the Government is to reduce industrial output and exports, the National Bank will never equalize our national currency, we must understand that. Therefore, I would like to tell my colleagues what is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u61	Give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u62	That you can't vote in haste for things that are dictated by a voice, even if it's the voice of the speaker! Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u63	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking you to calm down. Your attention is being taken. The point is that at the time we needed a draft determination to take as a basis, to refer to a second reading. And as for the draft ruling, which is on this point, I think there are a number of points that conflict with the Constitution and cannot be put to a vote, we discussed it at the Conciliation Council. The Supreme Council of Ukraine has no right to decide on the removal of the head of the National Bank, as soon as we make changes to the National Bank Act, then we will work on this. I think we've found a compromise decision here. With regard to the evaluation of the activities of the Cabinet of Ministers, we will be considering a draft relevant decision on the Resolution of Disbelief, and there the question will clearly find its own reflection in the process of discussion. The Supreme Council of Ukraine's most talented young scientists in the field of fundamental and applied research and technological development, registration number 3510, and the 2009 Supreme Council of Ukraine Award for the most talented young scientists, registration number 3511. If you don't mind, your honorary colleagues, the rapporteur will immediately make a statement on the two bills, and we will vote separately on each of them on one condition that the Supreme Council will find the money to do so. Is that right, Catherine Seed?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u64	Thank you. You promised me, Vladimir Mikhailovich, that we would find money for this. Dear colleagues, you have, by a constitutional majority, adopted these decisions in this session hall and the draft decree prepared for the implementation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree, which was developed in 2007, and was adopted, setting up 20 prizes of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the most talented young scientists. Each prize is 20,000. The prizes are set on competitive grounds. The competition is conducted by a competition commission. The head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine approves its composition. There are 34 persons on this committee. These are famous scientists, experts, representatives of the committee of state science and technology bonuses, the State Foundation for Fundamental Research, ministries and so forth. An expert card was developed by the competition commission, according to which the commission worked. In determining the winners, the number of points awarded by experts was taken into account. There were 61 jobs in the contest. 61 jobs. They were all published in the “Voice of Ukraine”. The overwhelming majority of these jobs have been responded to. The competition commission immediately excluded 5 jobs as non-conforming to the position and standards, to our competitive standards. Thus 56 jobs were allowed by the commission. As a result of the competition, 20 jobs were taken, including 10 of them by a team of scientists, 10 by one. The regional principle is Kiev, Kharkiv, Mikolai. Odessa, Chernigu, Lviv, Donetsk, Sevastopol and Dnipropetrovsk In the process.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u65	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u66	During the review process, a witness came in that one of the authors of the chosen works of Panchasin Hanna Ivanovna changed his name to Juminsky. And that's why we haven't been able to put that last name into the draft decree. And it's proposed to make an appropriate ruling. The committee unanimously proposes and asks the national deputies of Ukraine to accept this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u67	Dear colleagues, there are no warnings that we should put to the vote the adoption of these decrees? There is a draft decision on the award of the Supreme Council of Ukraine award to the most talented young scientists in the field of fundamental and applied research and technological development in 2008. Please vote. [[10:50:10]] For 412 Decision taken. Now, the next order is 3511.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u68	Dear colleagues, the draft decree is prepared to implement the same decision you have adopted to establish the Supreme Council of Ukraine's named scholarships for the most talented young scientists. I've been telling you the facts that young scientists can be counted painlessly under 35 years of age. We have 30 named scholarships for 2,000 dollars. I want to turn to the Ukrainian National Deputies, and 14 jobs have been put in place that correspond to the position, including the age price. This is, of course, a very serious problem for our science. 14 jobs are a pleasure to see that out of 14 jobs 7 are prepared by men and 7 women; of these, 6 are doctors of science, and in scientific direction: physics-mathematic sciences, economics, historical sciences; 8 are candidates of science and also of physics-mathematics, economics, technical, pedagogical and geological sciences. Geography also, of course, was given: Kiev, Ternopil, Zitomir, Lutsk, Herson, Odessa, Dnipropetrovsk, Donetsk, the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. The competition commission, approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, reviewed these works and recommended them for the establishment of named scholarships in 2009. The list is added to your list. Here we are, if it were foreseen, Vladimir Mikhailovich, the money, we would even save, because out of the 30 we thought there would be 30 scholarships, only 14 of them. And to my colleagues, the national deputies of Ukraine, I turn to the next. We work to ensure that science does not die in our country and that we have more scholarships from the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u69	Dear colleagues, if you have no objection to the draft decision, let me put it to the vote. A draft decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the appointment in 2009 of a scholarship by the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the most talented young scientists is put to the vote. Registration number 3511. Please vote. [[10:53:11]] For 401 I'll take the order. Dear colleagues, as agreed upon, i.e. they have made a decision, they are now considering a draft decree to mark the 100th anniversary of the first consumer diagnosis of a acute myocardial infarction. The reporter is Valentin Grigorovich Matviev. Please. Please be prepared by the Committee of Pierre Viacheslav Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u70	Thank you. Dear colleagues, as I said at the beginning of our session, are 100 years old in September of this year since the world’s outstanding Ukrainian scientists, samplers, and Strazesco developed principles for the first time in the history of acute myocardial infarction. In addition, Professor Mikola Dmitrovich Stražesco founded the Institute of Clinical Medicine in Kiev, which is now called the National Scientific Center “Institute of Cardiology of the Academy of Sciences of Strasbourg”, which is now the leading scientific and practical medical and diagnostic institute of Ukraine. The National Institute of Cardiovascular Surgery of the name of the Academy of Amosova gives a significant contribution to surgical care for cardiologists. Such scientific and clinical institutions are really the pride of our state. But it should be noted that far too far, their funding does not meet today’s demands. Literally a few digits. There are now more than 20 million people in Ukraine, think about the veneration, 20 million people with cardiovascular disease, three times the death rate of cancer, tuberculosis, infectious diseases, and AIDS combined. About 500,000 people die of cardiovascular disease each year in Ukraine. But even the State Programme for the Prevention and Treatment of These Diseases, approved back in 2006, is, unfortunately, very much under way.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u71	Give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u72	Thank you. Therefore, in view of the project proposed by us, the authors, the representatives of all five factions of the Parliament, are invited by the President of Ukraine to announce 2009 the year of the fight against a myocardial infarction in Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to develop and implement effective measures aimed at ensuring modern diagnostics and treatment of cardiovascular diseases. I'd like your support, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u73	Ladies and gentlemen, the argument that Valentin Grigorovich Matveyev made gives us reason to make: firstly, to put to the vote a proposal for inclusion in the agenda of the daily project. Please vote. [[10:57:09]] For 405 Decision taken. And now, dear colleagues, when you don't have any objections, there's a motion to vote, and the committee is supported, and all factions are supported, to adopt a project as a whole as a decree to mark the 100th anniversary of the first ingestion diagnosis of a acute myocardial infarction. Please vote. [[10:57:49]] For 413 Decision taken. A draft regulation on the establishment of a temporary investigation commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to investigate the corruption of officials preventing 16 MI-8 MT helicopters from being returned to the Land Army of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, transferred to the lease of the private company ZAT "Ukrainian Helicopters". [[MTV]] The reporter is Sergey Greenewecki. Dear colleagues, while Greenewetsk is on the move, I am voting on the inclusion of the 3570 draft in the agenda. Please vote. [[10:58:46]] For 401 Decision taken. Who will report? Petruk? Please, National Deputy Petruk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u74	Dear colleagues, your opinion is proposed by the draft Ordinance establishing a temporary investigation commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to investigate the actions of officials who prevent the return of 16 helicopters to the United States Army, transferred to the lease of the private company ZAT “Ukrainian helicopters”, prepared by members of the National Security and Defence Committee. The decision to bring this decision to the Supreme Council of Ukraine was made in 2003 between the military part of the Ministry of Defence and the ZAT “Ukrainian Helicopters” and the contract for the lease of aircraft of the military aircraft of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, to which 16 helicopters were leased to conduct aviation and air operations both in and outside Ukraine. After the contract was concluded, the private company was warned by the Ministry of Defense that the treaty would not be extended. In spite of the position of the Ministry of Defence, an additional agreement was signed, under the contract of which the leases of helicopters were extended. In July 2007, the Ministry of Defence appealed to the Kyiv’s Master’s Court for a late declaration of invalidity. The Land Court fully satisfied the Ministry of Defence's external demands, but the decision was accused by a private company – and the decision of the Kiev Court of Appeal of the First Instance was overturned. Out of unknown circumstances, the current administration of the Ministry of Defence has not challenged this decision in the appeal body in the cassation order, and it has gained legal power. In spite of the damage: first, the strengths of the Armed Forces; the damage to the state of 5 million and their monthly growth, uncontrolled use and exploitation.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u75	Let's be able to complete our position.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u76	The low cost of helicopters is what has to be addressed, because helicopters are being used illegally already, because they pay rents very low and there is a setback in the military readiness of the Armed Forces, in part military aviation and ground troops. Please support this decision, which is supported by the National Security and Defence Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u77	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Committee position? Does the committee support this? Dear colleagues, then the motion for a committee to adopt a draft decree as a decree for the establishment of an interim commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to investigate the corruption of officials who impede the return of 16 MI8 MTV helicopters to the Ukrainian Armed Forces, which were leased to the private company ZAT “Ukrainian helicopters”. Registration number 3572, please vote. [[11:02:52]] For 400. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we need to consult on the next draft of the law, which the President of Ukraine has defined as urgent and proposed for the first time, is a draft law on the principles for the restoration and development of Ukrainian Cossacks, Cossack Organizations and their unification. We need, honourable colleagues, to consider the matter in this way, to include it in the agenda, but at the same time they suggest that we postpone its consideration in connection with the need to reconcile a number of points. So I'd have an offer for you, dear colleagues, if you'd supported it: to include this issue in the agenda and perhaps to support the proposal to postpone the consideration of this bill. So I will put to the vote the draft law on the principles for the restoration and development of Ukrainian Cossacks, Cossacks and their integration. Registration number 2441, in order of one, please vote for inclusion in the agenda. [[11:04:18]] For 237 Questions are included in the agenda. The factions, please. Region Party – 0, Timoshenko Yulia Block – 153, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" – 65, Communist faction – 0, "Block of Lithuania" – 19. And now there's a proposal, including from the President and the rapporteur, to postpone consideration of this bill. I'd like, your honor, to support such an offer. Is there no objection? Well, let's put it off then. [[B in m in s a l in]] We've been delayed, haven't we? Let us turn to consideration, second reading. You should have. Announcing draft laws. Your Honor, well, please, everyone agrees. You should have said that in time. Dear colleagues, we must now consider drafts for the second. Vasily Vasilovich, well, please, well, you don't put me down. Well, don't put me in an awkward position. Well, let's keep this compromise going. Well, I agreed by consensus to the Supreme Council. Well, please, Kiselov with motive, we're still going to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u78	Thank you. As deputy head of the Regulatory Committee, I draw the attention of the Supreme Council to a malicious violation by the Chief of the Supreme Council of the Rules and ask for his attention. And next time we're going to remove him from the lobby. Thank you. Ask a question to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u79	Dear National Deputies! I'd like not to get too hot on these issues, because now the Supreme Council is going to be filming the bills that your faction is proposing, by the way, unprepared, and it's going to be voting too. So let's be mutually tolerant. The position of the Supreme Council was accepted. Are you insisting? In accordance with the Rules, I will put to the vote, but neither can I make accusations. Please mobilize. Dear colleagues, who would like to postpone consideration of the draft law, please vote. [[Registration No.2441]] [[11:06:56]] For – 241 Decision taken. Am I not in violation of the Rules? That's it, thank you. Dear colleagues, let us move on to the chapter “Second Reading”. Since we have made a decision with you, please note, to hold parliamentary hearings on justice issues in Ukraine, there is a proposal by a committee that essentially agrees with all factions to amend the laws of Ukraine on the judiciary of Ukraine and on the status of judges, registration No0916, 0917, to postpone. [[new editor]] Discuss them at parliamentary hearings. Then work on and submit to the final review of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. No objections? Should We Vote? Is there no objection? It's settled. We're moving. If they objected, they would vote. The draft Law 0947 “On Amendments to Article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on the Delimitation of State and Municipal Property” is being announced for consideration. Second reading, I remind you. The rapporteur is Head of the Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations, Bebezenko Valerij Fedorovich. Please, Valery Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u80	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, honourable national deputies, draft of the Act “On Making Changes to Article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on the Delimitation of State and Municipal Property”, was submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 8 May 2007. [[Registration No.0947]] The bill proposes to bring this article into line with article 84 of the Ukrainian Code of Land. During the time since the adoption of the draft law, the committee has not received any comments from the legislators. In furthering the bill, the Committee's second reading takes into account the comments made by the Chief Scientific and Expert Office on the harmonization of article 84 of the Ukrainian Code of Land. The chief judicial office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine called for a draft law without notice. In view of the foregoing, the committee proposes to adopt the draft law in the second reading and generally as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u81	Dear colleagues, the proposals that were made before this law, there's one proposal, they're taken into account. So we have every reason to put to the vote a proposal for a second reading committee and, as a whole, a bill amending article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on the Distinguishment of State and Municipal Property, registration number 0947, please vote. [[11:10:11]] For 386 The law is passed. Thank you. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine, Registration number 0973, Reporter - Valerius Fedorovich Bevanko, please, [[on the right of religious organizations to use land on a permanent basis]]
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u82	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, a respected colleague of the bill passed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, was adopted on the first reading on June 19, 2007. In short, the purpose of the bill is to give the right to permanent use of land for permanent use by religious organizations registered in Ukraine. Land - use areas can be used exclusively for the construction and maintenance of religious and other buildings needed to ensure their operation. The use of such land for entrepreneurial activities is prohibited. When these organizations stop their activities, the right to use the land they have given them also ceases. During the drafting of the bill, four proposals were made to the committee. As a result of this consideration, the bill proposes that it be adopted in a second reading and generally as a law. In doing so, I must point out that the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council believes that the bill is to be rejected as being contrary to the concept of the legal regime for the permanent use of land. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u83	Dear colleagues, the proposals that have been made are all taken into account, so there is good reason to put the committee's second reading and, as a whole, the draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine, registration number 0973. [[on the right of religious organizations to use land on a permanent basis]] Please vote. [[11:12:30.]] For 327 The law is passed. The draft Law on Amendments to Article 11 of the Ukrainian Law on Promoting the Social Development and Development of Young People in Ukraine, registration number 0888, report by the head of the Committee on Family Affairs, Youth Policy, Sport and Tourism of Lukyanov Katerina Eugene. [[on pension conditions for the repayment of educational loans to citizens who have children]] Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u84	Good afternoon, dear fellows! The Supreme Council of the past convened was considered in the first reading and adopted as a basis a bill that we are considering today in the second reading regime. The purpose of the bill is to help students who have children when they return loans for higher education. The bill received only two comments, both taken into account. The committee proposes to consider the bill in second reading and accept it as a law as a whole, but before I thank you for your attention, I would like to make warnings and suggestions to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine so that it can be recorded in a transcript of the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council. Understandably, paying off school loans is a major support to a student’s family that has a child. But there is no exception to the possibility and divorce of students who are married. So, for the government's stenogram of desire: when making changes to the relevant provision on the granting of loans and other sub-legislative acts provided for in the “Final Positions” account for the possibility of depriving such benefits. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u85	Dear colleagues, the proposal for a committee to adopt in the second reading and in general as a bill of the Act amending article 11 of the Ukrainian Act on Promoting the Social Establishment and Development of Young People in Ukraine with regard to the Payment of Educational Credits for Citizens with Children is put to the vote. Registration number 0888. Please vote. [[11:14:46]] For 397 The law is passed. A draft Law on Science Parks is being announced for consideration. Registration number 0956. Reporter: Head of the Committee on Science and Education, Vladimir Ivanovich Polocho.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u86	Honorable National Deputies, Honourable Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! I would like to remind you that the law on scientific parks was prepared on the basis of the adopted Law on Science Parks, “Kievska Politechnika” as early as May 2007. The committee established a working group involving representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Education and Science, the State Agency for Investment and Money, the National Academy of Sciences, scientists who reviewed and processed the proposals. All of the proposals are taken into account. They have 51 proposals from the national deputies of Karakiah, Samuel, Bebazza, Kiwalov, and others. What the law is aimed at -- let me just remind you -- is the revitalization of the innovative activities of higher education institutions and leading scientific institutions to bring their research results to the product stage. This is exactly what is missing today. I want to say that the law provides for minor preferences for the science park, minor preferences, such as the granting of the right to a basic scientific institution of the science park to rent to the projectors of the laboratory and the facility at the time of these projects. I mean, my dear colleagues, there are small or large preferences around the world for science to come into the economy. This is the most difficult problem for our nation today. And what I'm saying is that what Catherine Semenovna Samojlik said today about the fact that we don't have doctors of science today under 35 years of age, and we're in this economy. If we continue to save and give, we can lose the innovative potential of our science, which is still at present in terms of economics, 0.7. Therefore, the committee unanimously supported the bill, or proposal to accept it as a whole. Although, I mean, here are some comments, a remark by the Legal Expert Office. They're, in my opinion, some of them are right, but they're controversial and they're not important. This is the position of the committee. The Supreme Council is determined how to respond to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u87	Thank you. Dear colleagues, all 51 proposals that came to the draft law for second reading, found positive decisions on the committee. So we have every reason to vote on the committee's decision to take. Please, Yuri Carmazin. Change the preparations for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u88	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense”. Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, we would be unjust to you if we did not announce a remark by the Chief Legal Authority to the draft law. What's really scary is that the bill requires substantial redrafting and re-reading. I'm not going to talk now about the specific comments that are there, especially that state support is being implemented as far as possible. The transfer of property, since which time is a contradiction to the Codex Masters and Civil, which I believe was necessary. So I would like to hear how we are now responding to the observations of the Chief Legal Authority, which are absolutely correct. I'm saying that because I've read them now. And how do we count them? Perhaps it would be better not to bury the law. Because it needs this law, it's absolutely necessary. But how do we count them? I'd like to hear your opinion, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u89	Please, Mikhaylo Chechtov, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u90	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! Indeed, the law is necessary. And in order for him not to go under the veto, I fully agree with Mr. Carmazin that we need to take into account the comments of the legal department and adopt a second reading law. Yes, correct for re-second reading or third reading in order to make it impeccable and not subject to the President's veto. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u91	Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u92	Dear colleagues, I also wanted to remind us that we are here, there is no man who is against the innovative character of Ukrainian science to support, to strengthen. But still, my friends, we know a history of unscrupulous technology parks that have taken place. Because they had a place and were normally working, they were inopportune workers. And here's a whole chapter that envisions the release from duty of enough goods that are actually produced in Ukraine, by the way. And so I think that's a pretty serious question. Yes, the Cabinet of Ministers and the authorized authority submits, approves. Well, we know how time works in this whole thing. I still understand the logic that, for example, that things that aren't produced in Ukraine that are reinforcing science, but these are fixed by those that are produced in Ukraine. Thus, this is largely contrary to the ideology itself. So I would also support the idea that's being expressed here for a second time and agree on these nuances so that we have no doubt that we have supported science and that corruption is not allowed.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u93	Would you please take the position of the government as to which? We'll listen to the government's position. Deputy Minister Maxim Strych.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u94	The Grand Head of the Supreme Council, the noble National Deputies of Ukraine, the States that support innovation, have set up certain types of preferences to support this innovative activity. This law uses only those mechanisms that are recognized by civilized world practice. And when it comes to freeing the import of goods, it's not goods, it's scientific equipment that's not produced in Ukraine that's necessary for carrying out the projects, or it's produced, but it doesn't match the characteristics. The Ministry has worked on the Chief Executive's observations, in our view, that some of these observations are not correct, for example, the Ukrainian Master's Code, chapter 12, expressly provides for the legal status provided for scientific parks by the draft law. Because of this, the Ministry of Education and Science supports and believes that its approval would be important for enhancing the innovative potential of our higher education institutions and scientific institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u95	Sergey Teryohin. Dear colleagues, then we will proceed to the vote. I'm going to conclude that we don't have a discussion. Alexander Lavrinovich. Please, Sergey Teryohin. This is a discussion of the bill, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u96	Ladies and gentlemen, it's not as smooth as we'd like to introduce the deputy minister here. That position, as set out in this law, allows for the uncontrollable import of God knows that without payment of duties and other taxes. I remind you that according to the norm and the requirements of the Customs Code, if there is any aid for importing something, it is necessarily a code for the commercial nomenclature of external economic activity. There's a banquet rule in this project. If you call this equipment scientific, then you don't have to pay taxes. That is why it is corrupt, and it cannot be voted for. And so the only way not to bury this law is to send it back for second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u97	Thank you. Alexander Lavrinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u98	Dear colleagues, I would like to ask that in this case, of course, we have many reasons to run into norms that can be used to make unfair competition or simply to remove funds from the State Budget. In this case, there is a conflict with a number of laws, and I would like to make this suggestion: since the draft law is being passed for adoption in the second reading, the Supreme Council Rules allow us today to adopt a decision on the adoption of the draft law in the second reading and to continue to refer it to a third reading, which is called upon to consider all the norms that conflict with each other in this project or other laws and to make it for adoption in the third reading and generally after the harmonization of all legal norms. I'd like us to go this way today.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u99	Roman Zvaric, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u100	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Mr. Head, you may have asked the Minister or Deputy Minister of Education to speak for the Ministry. And I understand why it was the deputy minister who called this position. But I can't believe that this could be a position of government, because I would also like, besides what was already said here, to draw my colleagues' attention to the fact that the law provides that these scientific parks should be created at the expense of the State Budget. That's why it would have to be more likely to ask, not the Deputy Minister of Education, but the Minister of Finance, the government's proposal for this bill, because I can't believe that in times of financial crisis, the Ministry of Finance could agree with the bill. I suggest that he not vote in the second reading, but in the worst case, return to the second reading instead of voting in that form.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u101	Thank you. Vladimir Polochalo, head of the committee, and he will be here. Adam Martinyuk then, as the author, one of the authors, more precisely, and we'll define ourselves. Please, Vladimir Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, I felt, of course, the mood of the hall. I want to drop all suspicions, we have some kind of corruption-type obsession that has arisen -- everyone is suspected of corruption. There are two, two years of operation of the Kyiv Science Park Act, and there is no basket. On the contrary, Kyiv’s polytechnics became the country’s leading university. So let us not suspect where it is not to be found. But since this is the mood of the hall, I could correct everyone there, some minor remarks. The Ministry of Finance has no comment on this bill. And the Cabinet doesn't have any comments. But since there are some moods and doubts, I would like to support Mr. Lavrinovich in having his second reading sent to the third reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u103	Adam Martinyuk, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u104	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I would say here, on the contrary, that some people blame it only because the chairman of the committee said that the drafters of the bill were meant for equipment. Most likely, there is now a feedback in the session room: that others are acting with exactly the same motivation to overthrow this bill. He has the absolute right to life, we have to take care of science and its future. Each of us is well aware of the level of science, especially technical science. This is one moment. One second. I'd like to draw your attention, Your Honor, to Alexander Volodymyrovich's right, but not to the end. There is a third reading, but in order to be sent to a third reading, we need to be clear in accordance with article 123 of the Rules, which articles we send to the third reading. Because in that sense, the third reading means that every article will be read again in the so-called third reading. I mean, again.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u105	Dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts. There are three suggestions. The first proposal, a committee that is officially published, is to accept the project in the second reading and generally as a law. As for the position of the government, I would like to answer to the honourable colleagues that the government has authorized this issue to speak on behalf of the government of the Deputy Minister of Education and Science of Maxim Strych. He represents the position of the government. And we're starting to get our grades out of the voice right now. There's a point made by the Chief Legal Authority. But the committee has repeatedly considered these observations, and has decided that it cannot take these observations into account. It's his right. So there's a first proposal, to accept it in the second reading and in general as a law, to make sure that there's a movement, so that we can develop science institutions. There's a second proposal that lies in the scope of the decisions of the Chief Legal Authority: for a second reading again, and there's a proposal that included Alexander Lavrinovich -- it's for the third reading to send this bill. If you don't insist, I'll put them to the vote in order. The first is the proposal for voting: to adopt the draft law in the second reading and generally as a bill of law, registration number 0956 on scientific parks. Please vote. [[11:29:31]] For-78 The decision is not taken. I'm voting for a second reading of the draft law on science parks. Registration number 0956, please vote. [[11:29:56]] For 385 Decision taken. The Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Social Assistance with Children and Youth, “On Social Work with Children and Youth”, I apologize, and some other legislative acts are announced for consideration. [[new editor]] Reporter to the committee’s Subcommittee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport, and Tourism, Katerina Eugene Lukyanova, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, the bill was adopted in the first reading on the basis of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's previous call on April 17th of the seventh year. The committee at its meeting on May 20, last year, reviewed a comparative table for the draft law and introduced the Supreme Council of Ukraine. A total of 60 amendments were made to the bill. They're all accounted for without exception. The committee decided to recommend a bill to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a law as a whole. The only thing that's been written there since January 1st, we've been written down since January 1st, but it's better to take it off, well, since the day of the publication. The refinement has been made since the day of publication, not since January 1.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u107	Dear colleagues, the committee's proposal has been further understood, is it acceptable? No warning? In the absence of any comments, a second reading committee proposal is put to the vote and, as a whole, a bill amending the Ukrainian Act on Social Work with Children and Youth and some other legislative acts, a new edition. Registration number 0929, taking into account the committee's proposal, which has just spoken about the entry into force of this law. Please vote. [[11:31:55]] For 403 The law is passed. A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the activities of the State Special Liaison and Information Protection Service is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 0880]] The rapporteur is the head of the National Security and Defence Committee, Anatoly Stepanovich Grizenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u108	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I reported this bill, which was unanimously supported by committee members in April months, and then it passed in Parliament. But the only amendment that the national MPs insisted on was that there is not yet a law on the purchase of goods and services, and we have removed the corresponding paragraph from that law. The committee reexamined and unanimously supported it. I ask that this document, which has been in Parliament for over a year and a half, be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u109	Dear colleagues, all proposals are taken into account. The proposals made by the people’s deputies also found a positive decision by the committee. Therefore, the committee’s decision to adopt a draft law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the activities of the State Service for Special Communications and Protection of Information, registration number 0880, is put to the vote. Please vote. [[11:33:32]] For 396 The law is passed. Please, Yuri Carmazin. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u110	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, we have written this law takes effect on the day of its publication, except for paragraphs 4 and 7 of Chapter 1, which are in force on January 1, 2009. This needs to be fixed. We can't back-number the law. Therefore, it is proposed to limit itself to “take effect from the date of its publication”. Put a dot here, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I ask you to vote this, otherwise we are in violation of the Constitution. We can't back-number the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u111	Dear colleagues, the proposal deserves attention because we have been delayed in considering this bill. If there are no warnings, I will put to the vote a clarification of this law “from the moment of its publication”. Yeah? Since the day it was published. I am asking to vote on the amendment to the newly adopted law, “It has entered into force since the date of its publication”. Please vote. [[11:35:08]] For – 404 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, your opinion is proposed by the draft Act “On Amendments to Certain Laws of Ukraine on the Funeral Funeral Funerals and Social Protection of Members of Their Families”, registration No 0900. The rapporteur is a member of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, Eugene Semenovich Konstantinov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u112	Dear Head, Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies, Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons. We suggest that you consider a second reading of the bill amending some of the laws of Ukraine concerning the burial of members of the fighting and the social protection of their families, registration number 0900, the authors of Sergey Czervonopisky and Yuri Zubko. The bill proposes that aid be granted for the free burial of members of the hostilities that took place in Japan in 1938, 1939, 1945, and elsewhere. Rewarded for fighting by national awards and medals and medals of the former Soviet Union except for the Jubilee. As well as providing assistance to families of dead members of the fighting forces in other lands. In the course of the work, all the proposals that came from the legal entities involved in the legislative initiative were taken into account. A comparative table of the draft law is in place and a decision has been taken by the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine without notice. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that this bill was adopted as the basis for the first reading on March 20, 2007, and it is not the committee's fault that it has just been put on second reading. All submissions were made on time. In view of this, a comparative table concludes that the law takes effect on January 1, 2009. In view of the circumstances that have arisen, I would like to ask you to record from the transcript that this law has taken effect since July 1, 2009, in an extreme case, on January 1, 2010. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to support and enact the law as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u113	Thank you. Dear colleagues, do we really need to clarify in the final position, perhaps let's stick to the only approach and record, this law takes effect from the day it is published, does the committee not deny it? Oh, no? From July then? Please, Anatoly Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u114	I, Yuri Carmazin, am already dead.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u115	Yuri Carmazin, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u116	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, a respected colleague, is in great need of this law, but it has an impact on the spending of the State budget. Therefore, according to article 27 of the Ukrainian Code of Budget, we can put it into effect only on January 1, 2010, as proposed by Eugene Semenovich Constantinov, he said either on July 1, or January 1, then he mentioned that there is article 27 of the Code of Budget. So it's going to be the right thing to do from 1 January 2010 to predict the source of its funding, because now it's not going to be funded, we're creating an artificial problem that we can't solve and why we don't pay attention to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u117	Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u118	Dear colleagues, I'd like us to compromise here. In fact, it's not the kind of money that we have to argue about here especially, considering that on February 15 we're going to celebrate the 20 years of withdrawal of troops from Afghanistan and those who went through the war and during the Great War and during the fighting in Afghanistan and their families need at least this pitiful aid because it's a measurable burial aid. So, I think we should just, I think, this month that the government is left with might count, these are small amounts. So here's two options, or let's say we take into account when we review the budget, because the year we wait it's too big, too much, yes, or the government's proposal to consider, count, count in the current budget, change in the budget. Got it, got it, got it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, let's do this. Here's a proposition from Mikola Tomenko, she's not that big of a money. But so that we can now move from January 1st to January 1st, 2010 or July 1st, from the day of publication. But there is a representative of Matthew, a deputy minister of finance, we will listen to the offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u120	Ladies and gentlemen, of course I ask you to make your decision only when you have made your decision to pay attention to the following. This bill solves two problems. First problem. It is extended to persons on whom the benefits provided for in the Law on the Status of War Veterans are distributed. And a second. Free burial of individuals is foreseen. It's certainly wrong to talk about funerals, it's a problem very well, it's understandable, but, at the same time, today's laws provide that these are essentially people of retirement age, we pay two pensions for funerals. So this question is essentially solved. First. Even if we have, God forbid, 10,000 people will stand before the Most High, we have this year, for example, it will already cost 100 million dollars to bury extra ones that are not budgeted. That's why I have this offer. Ladies and gentlemen, let's take a look at this bill when we draft the 2010 budget and let's see if we can define the terms. We'll have a chance -- we won't, and then we'll make the final decision. And today, we don't. Well, then how about a change, how do you say it?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u121	Dear colleagues, it's a compromise decision to propose from July 1st, we're going to have a change to the budget by the government. We recorded it on May 1, if I'm not mistaken. Yes. And we're going to define, and now, in order for us not to argue, the state has to pay due, due respect to these people. So let's put this proposal to a vote. Since July 1, 2009. With this in mind, I am voting on the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the burial of members of hostilities with the social protection of members of their families. Registration number 0900. Please vote. [[11:42:24]] For 378 The law is passed. A draft Act amending article 12 of the Ukrainian Land Pay Act is being announced for consideration. [[on sports facilities in physical culture and sports, Olympic and Paralympic bases]] Registration number 0908. Reporter of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, Sergei Anatoliyovich Teryohin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u122	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to briefly remind you of the history of this matter. It's a parliamentary bill. His authors were Volkov, Safiullin, and Tomenko. It is dedicated to clarifying the list of sports objects and institutions of culture, education, and science, health, which are located on their own lands or on municipal lands. And they're offered to exempt land tax from land tax, land tax. This rule was in force until January 1, 2007. Regrettably, it was canceled, and a huge number of colossals are now emerging. So let's say that for objects like airports, let's say the TSOs, the airports, I'm sorry, TSOs just put the zone in a special way to take these lands and then build some cottages. The same applies to stadiums, special areas for motorcycles, and so forth. Thus, the second reading of the 5 rights to the committee, 2 of them included, 3 of them rejected. I'd like to make some adjustments.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u123	Dear colleagues, the amendment that was rejected by the national deputy, Boguslayev, do you insist on it? No, it doesn't. Is the poplar insisting on his amendment? He also refuses to do so. The Cabinet of Ministers, please take the position of the Cabinet of Ministers on this matter. Turn on the microphone. _______________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Ladies and gentlemen, the committee does not support the draft Law on Amendments to Article 12 for the following reasons. The exemption from taxes on all existing establishments, including various forms of property, puts other taxpayers under unequal conditions. That's the first one. And the second. The operation of the land-paying tax scheme results in substantial losses in the same councils. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u124	I'd like to comment on the cabinet's position. Once again, on socially important subjects in no country in the world, property taxes are taxed. Imagine, let's put a tax on the cemetery, let's say it's used, too. We have it now released, let's enter. I remind you of the proposal made by the President of Ukraine, the distinguished representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers and the Cabinet of Ministers for the development of youth and child sport. With one hand, we give grants from the state budget to build children's sports courses, and with another hand, we take and tax these courses with taxes. There's absolutely no logic at all. I would suggest that this law be passed in general with one technical law. He served in April of this year. Therefore, the last paragraph refers to the 2008 State Budget. We need to change this link to the 2009 State Budget. We agreed with you that as a result of the quarter, the government would come up with proposals to clarify the state budget, so let it provide subsidies to compensate the local budgets so that there would be no loss.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u125	Okay, thanks. Mikola Tomenko is one of the authors of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u126	Dear colleagues, I'm my own and Alexander Volkova, and Ravil Safiullin, who, in the second year, are convinced by the two governments that there is a need to maintain physical culture and sports, I want to say that we have found a perfectly reasonable and correct proposal. Everything related to the tax on physical culture and sports, health care, except the Cabinet of Ministers, is in the hands of the government. Provides local self-government. It is possible to check whether children are involved in sports or where they are using a sauna or some other disaster. And then it finally comes out after the test, and the Cabinet of Ministers approves this list. So that's how we lived until January 1, 2007, and then two years later, there was a new conflict. So I'd like to ask everyone to support, the difficult life now in children's sports is waiting for us this year, let's at least support physical culture and sport in this part.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u127	The committee has exactly the same position as the national deputy Tomenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u128	Honourable National MPs, taking into account the clarification proposed by the chairman of the committee, to record not 2008 but 2009, I put to a second reading vote and as a whole the bill of the Law amending article 12 of the Law on Land Paying for Sports, Physical Culture and Sports, the Olympic and Paralympic Basics. Once again, for adoption in second reading and generally as a law. Registration number 0908. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u129	Please be supportive. [[11:48:20]] For 392
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u130	For 392, the law was passed. A draft Law amending certain Ukrainian laws on quality management systems, environmental management systems and other management systems, registration number 0940, has been announced for consideration. The rapporteur is the deputy head of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, Kseniya Mikhailn Leapina.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u131	Thank you, Your Honor. The bill aims to replace certain terms, is of a sufficiently technical nature, in fact leads to the term “environmental management system” being replaced by “environment management system”, which corresponds to European terminology and understanding of European terminology today. All the amendments that have been made to this bill are included. Therefore, a request for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u132	Dear colleagues, the committee has taken into account all the suggestions that have come from the National Deputies and other committees, and proposes to adopt this law in second reading and in general as a law. No warning? The proposal for a second-reading committee and, as a whole, the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the creation of quality management systems, environmental management systems and other management systems, registration number 0940, is put to the vote. Please vote. [[11:50:09]] For 229 The law is passed. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain activities is being announced. The reporter is Kseniya Mikhailna Lapina. Registration number of Bill 0964. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u133	Thank you, Your Honor. But there are some problems with this bill: it was prepared for second reading early in 2008, so this is an amendment to the fact that this law becomes effective on January 01, 2009. Well, that's impossible today, the back number actually suggests changing the license order. In fact, when Voting, Vladimir Mikhailovich must take into account the impossibility of his entry since 01.01.2009. Well, actually, he's a little late.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u134	Well then, maybe from the first year of 2010, you'll see.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u135	Or since the day of the publication. But there is a need to bring the regulations into line and, in fact, it is also impossible to do so in a few days, so at least from 01.06. 2009 At the very least, six months should be allowed to be taken into account in accordance with legal acts.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u136	I see.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u137	But what is it, though? There are other problems. The amendment taken into account, and I will insist that the hall be determined whether to support it or not, because it actually, this amendment, amends the Automobile Transport Act, but such changes that contradict the Law on State Control and Oversight, because the law, article 4 of the Law on Fundamental Principles of State Oversight, control in the field of economic activity, states that order and manner of checks are determined solely by law. And this amendment proposes that this order be determined by a decree of the Cabinet of Ministers. It's a contradiction. I'm asking you not to support such an amendment, or we're just creating a coalition in the legal field. So there's a problem here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u138	Ladies and gentlemen, let's go to the amendments. First amendment, does the national deputy Krutz insist on it? No, it's not. Amendment number two is counted. Amendment number three, National Deputy Crutz, do you insist on it? No, it's not. Amendment 4 of People's Deputy Mikhail Vasilovich Cecheva, accounted for? All right, one minute, all right? No warning? Let's move on. Amendment number five.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u139	I don't mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u140	Fifth Amendment, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u141	I ask that we determine whether to vote her or not.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u142	One minute, please. Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov, please. There's a denial. Your position, your argument.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u143	I ask you to put amendment 5 to the vote. I don't agree with the reporter.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u144	Please take the seat of the committee. Once again, Xenia Mikhailevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u145	The position of the committee is taken into account, but as a national MP and a national deputy, Karmazin, we demand, in accordance with the Rules, the national MP, Catherinechuk, we demand that this amendment be put to the vote by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u146	I see. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin. Then there's Mikola Catherinechuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u147	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, the committee counts the fifth amendment of the Chechtov People's Deputies. I think it makes things worse and distorts the standard that was adopted in the first reading. Therefore, given that the procedure for carrying out checks and licensing conditions for issuing certificates of conformity should continue to be switched against several laws in law, it is abnormal, does not correspond to the Constitution and valid legal acts. That's why, in denying the unconstitutionality of this, I would ask amendment number five to set up a confirmation room. He's going to get an amendment from the Chechtchev People's Deputies most – it's going to be accounted for, it's not going to get – so it's going to be deleted, it's going to be the previous edition of the law. Thank you. And please support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u148	Mikola Dmitrovitch Catherinechuk, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u149	The European Party of Ukraine, the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that around this bill, and in particular the 5th amendment, there was a fairly broad discussion of taxi drivers and routers. To this day they want to play a regular game of transportation and verification of the activities they are carrying out. And so the question today is not just the political plane but also the economic plane: how will appropriate carriers operate under new conditions or conditions that can change constantly. So the position of carriers and taxi drivers is not to support the 5th amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u150	Who else insists? Valery Bondick, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u151	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. You know, your honor, you may disagree with the speeches of our colleague, Miki Catherinechuk, in private. The fact is that transport is regulated by tariff policy is provided by the Civil Code of Ukraine. And what Kseniya Mikhailna is proposing, you know, yesterday I voted against the packing law, you know, it's clearly lobbyist entrepreneurial schemes. We don't have to support it. So please identify yourself in the hall, your honors.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u152	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Amendment No. 5 of the Chechtov People's Deputy: The procedure for verifying the carrier's conformity with the licence requirements and the order for the issue of the certificate of conformity of service for the carriage of passengers by buses shall be established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The committee has taken this amendment into account, but a number of national deputies have objected and we must now put to the vote to support amendment No. 5 of the Chechov People's Deputy. Please vote. [[11:56:53]] For 207 No support was found for the amendment. Thus, my fellow Members, we need to make a clarification in the “Final Position”: as of 1 July 2006, 2009 this law will enter into force. Taking into account this proposal that just came from the committee, I'm voting for acceptance. Change the vote. What? What, what? Roman Zvaric's microphone, please. Question taken. I put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt in a second reading and as a whole as a bill of the draft law amending the Ukrainian law on licensing certain types of economic activity. Registration number 0964, specifying: The law is introduced, acquired, effective on July 1, 2009. Please vote for adoption in the second reading and in general as a law. Please vote. [[11:58:12]] For 202 The decision is not taken. Then I put the second sentence to the vote, to refer to the second reading again, as we usually do. I'd like you to determine how to vote. [[11:58:38]] For 223 The decision is not taken. Thus, the bill is rejected. A draft of the Law “On the Moratorium of Department from. ” Oh, dear fellows! I apologize, I would like to say that after the break, the draft Law “On the Moratorium of Deprivation from the Editorial of Public and Municipal Media Facilities and Property” will be the first to be considered. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, good fellows, that's right. After the break, after we consider the appointment and release of judges, this bill will be the first to be considered. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u153	Invite the deputies to the session room, make an announcement to make. The factions met and returned to the session room. Ladies and gentlemen, while our colleagues are arriving at the session room, I would like to ask Mikola Tomenko to comment on the meeting with the people who were under the walls of the Supreme Council. What was that all about? What are our next actions?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u154	Dear colleagues, on behalf of the Head of the Supreme Council, I met with representatives of the Association of Employers of Small and Medium Business Employers, Businesses, Trade Workers and a number of other public institutions, who today said they would not accept the Local Taxes and Congregations Bill, which was submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers and voted in the first reading. After that meeting, I met with the factions and the profile committee, as directed by the Supreme Council. And we agreed to do it this way. First. The Prime Minister and the First Vice-Prime Minister officially stated that the government was in a position to renegotiate the rules relating to the increase in the customs assembly for trade and other local taxes against which entrepreneurs were taking the stand. Second position. The Tax Committee, which will consider this bill for second reading, made a commitment on Tuesday to hold public hearings from the bill, since it suggests that 10 local taxes are being abolished. Today, we cannot consider just one tax, such as a market congregation or a resort congregation, against which entrepreneurs speak. There are still taxes that are being eliminated, and some are being supported. So on Tuesday, the heads of national public organizations who care about business, small business, employers, are invited by the public hearing committee, and on Tuesday they will have the opportunity to directly influence the passage of the bill. And the third position I have promised on your behalf is that until consensus is found between the factions and the public organizations that represent this area of activity, the bill will not be passed into the session hall. I am convinced that Tuesday's public hearing and position, agreed by all the faction leaders and the government's statement that they are withdrawing the tax administration's fantastic growth rule of this congregation, will allow us to reassure entrepreneurs, enable them to work peacefully and not create problems in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u155	Viacheslav Kirilenko, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u156	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “For Ukraine” MP. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, my colleagues, I have also spent quite a bit of time on the street talking to entrepreneurs who work in markets, and it's about the three million people who are now taking the initiative, unfortunately, to the government, to increase the market tax by 214 times. So I'm taking what seems to be the government involved in the back-up here. Although I will believe it only when I see it with my own eyes. And for the sake of clarity, I would like to propose to 3553 today a bill to be put out in a second reading and not to be supported by Parliament, and on Tuesday to involve representatives of the public organizations who are now plying Parliament for a whole new text, which would then be without problems in the first reading and generally approved. Then people would move away from under the walls of the Supreme Council with the understanding that they had been heard and supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u157	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let us now consider the question of the election and release of judges. The rapporteur is Head of the Justice Committee Sergey Vasilovich Kiwalov. Please, Sergey Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u158	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen! The Supreme Council Committee on Justice at its meeting on 14 January considered the appointment of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the head of the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine, the election of judges on an indefinite basis, the election of judges previously elected and the submission of the High Council of Justice on the dismissal of judges under general conditions. You're all familiar with the procedure, the judges are in the guest bed and the balcony. Draft Supreme Council ruling 3610. The committee recommends that judges be elected on an indefinite basis: the Court of Appeal of Kyiv of Zakropivny Aleksandr Vasilovich; Kyiv's Court of Appeal, Polack Olen Ivanovna; the local Bari district court of the Vinnyk district of Burdenyuk Sergey Ivanovich; the local Kivertsov district court of Volin district of Ponomarov Olga Mikhailovna; the local Samar district court of Dnipropetrovska Catholyana Mikhail Alexanderovich; the local Slavotic City Court of Kyiv Region of Orla Anatolia Sergiyovich; the local Anthracite District Court of the Luhansk region of Nazarov Marina Viktorovna; the local Krasnolutsky City Court of Luhansk Region of Bjelova Ludmila Alexandrovna; the local Stahanov City Court of the Luhansk district of Shargarov, Valentina Ivanovna; the local Rechetilov District Court of the Gorulka region of Maksimovic; the local Kharkiv District Court of Kharkiv, Karachentsev Igor Volodymirovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u159	Microphone, microphone!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u160	the local Provincial District Court of Harkov Slobodan Mikolaiovich; the local District Court of Kharkiv Bielecki Alla Mikolayivna; the local Canov Regional Court of the Cherkasian Region of Rusakowa Grigori Stepanović; the local Pridniprovsky District Court of Cherkasa Popelnouha Ruslan Alexiyovich; the local district court of the Chernigiv district of Sokolik Olen Ivanovna; the local Novozadova District Court of Chernigova Kosac Irina Anatoliyevna; the local right-wing district court of Kyiva Matviyenko Julius Alexandrovna; the local Dniprovsky District Court of Kyiv Jarovenko Natalija Olegovna; the local Solomonian District Court of Kiev, Melnik Volodymyr Vasilovich; the military local court of the Žitomir garrison of Aksionov Valerija Yegorovich; the military local court of the Cerkasian garrison of Fedotov Igor Viacheslavovich; the local commercial court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Colossus Hanna Hennadiawn; the local court of the Lviv district of Manuk Peter Teodorovitch; the local court of the Kharkiv district of Kalinickenko Natalija Vadimovna; the local Commercial Court of the Hmeljna District of Recognized Inna Viktorovna; the local court of the Chernigiv district of Fezuru Mikola Vitaliyovich; The local commercial court of Sevastopol Ribin Svetlana Anatoliyevna Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u161	Dear colleagues, do you have any warnings about specific candidates? We have every reason then to put to the vote a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of judges on an untimely basis. [[Registration number 3610]] Please vote. [[12:41:29]] For 379 I'll take the order. Yes, please, the following decisions. [[Applause]] And then we'll all welcome together, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u162	Decree 3611 of January 14, 2009. The committee recommends that Danuk Vladimir Vasilovich, previously elected on an indefinite basis, be appointed judge of the Court of Appeal of the Lviv Region. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u163	The name is Danko. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the vote. The draft Decree 3611 on the election of a judge is put to the vote. Please vote. [[12:42:27]] For 380 Decision taken. Next order.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u164	Dear colleagues, at the meeting of the Committee on January 14, 2009, the draft decision of the Committee on the Compendium of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to elect Shevchuk Vladimir Ivanovich to serve as judge of the Isiaslav District Court of the Hmelni district did not receive the support of the majority of the votes of the committee. For -10. We're holding on to ten. So the question of choosing Shevchuk Vladimir Ivanovich can be resolved in plenary session by voting. I would like to report that a statement was made yesterday after the meeting of the committee by Shevchuk Vladimir Ivanovich, requesting that his question be postponed in plenary. He's not in the plenary today. I propose to postpone the consideration of this candidature.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u165	Dear colleagues, is such a proposal supported? We're going to have to listen to the motivation then both to the committee and to the judges, so we're going to postpone the consideration of draft regulation 3612. Please, next. Just a minute. National MP Lukashuk on this matter, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u166	Ladies and gentlemen, Shevchuk has not worked for more than two years and is extremely negative for the judges. Almost every other case, such as dozens of cases, comes back to a retrial with the conclusion that this judge does not correspond to the status of judges and violates the Constitution of Ukraine. He's been paid for two years. I ask you to put to the vote, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, please put to the vote and decide on this. I have a constitutional right to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u167	Valerius Bondik, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u168	Dear colleagues, indeed, yesterday at the meeting there was a judge's candidature, and our colleague Lukashuk was present, he reported. But I have a little warning. You understand that our committee, you know, the auto-daphe case doesn't turn into a tribunal. Because the judge is working, yes, he's without authority, he's not working, he's getting paid. It is already the task of the Chairman to take him up. Let him write a summary, help the other judges. But we must not approach the fate of man. Therefore, the rights of Sergei Vasilevich, let us postpone this candidature, let us examine. And there will be grounds for the election.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u169	Ladies and gentlemen, we don't have a question to discuss. That's why it's an offer. We need to consider this question. Therefore, the commission of the committee should be fixed so that Shevchuk Vladimir Ivanovich will be present at the next meeting, and we should consider the matter in his presence under the Rules. Ask him questions, listen to the other side, including our colleague Lukashuk and the position of the committee, and then make an objectively balanced decision. So, please, once again, Lukashuk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u170	I was on the committee yesterday. The first vote was 10 by 10. Then he was recalled and the second vote was negative. That's true. There are all the members of the committee. I'm asking you not to mess up the committee's decision. And I ask you to put it to a vote. This is my constitutional right.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u171	Dear colleagues, in order to put the matter to a vote, it would take a man, a judge, to be present, if you'll excuse me. If you make that decision, let's vote without it. That's why there's his statement. How are we going to do that? Committee position again, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u172	The committee, Vladimir Mihajlovich, has not been defined - 10 by 10, I have already said. And that question can only be resolved by the Supreme Council Hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u173	Ladies and gentlemen, I will put the matter to the vote and discuss it with the absent judge.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u174	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, colleagues, really, we had the first 10 to 10 vote on the committee yesterday, but given the facts we discussed yesterday, you know, really, man has not worked as a judge for two years. I think we can help her find another profession if she has any such questions. Let's probably vote and the hall will now be determined in what way. And Sergey Vasilovich could tell us right now what the claims to the judge were and what the questions were about him. As for the fact that he was sick there. Yesterday he was able to be on our committee, and today, I'm sorry, he couldn't come to the Supreme Council. That must be a question for the judge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u175	Dear people's deputies, to get out of this colossus, let's make progress in this way. I will put a motion to the vote to consider the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the election of Shevchuk Vladimir Ivanovich as judge of the local Isiaslav district court of Hmeljnička. The court is suspended in the absence of the court. I'm voting on this proposal and I'm asking you to vote. Please vote. [[12:48:23]] For a hundred and The decision is not supported. Then let's make this decision, Your Honor, to assign a committee to the next plenary meeting when it comes to the question of appointment and dismissal of judges, to bring this matter up. Judge Shevchuk will be present or present, consider and make the final decision. Is such a proposal supported? Please, let's move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u176	Draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine 3613. The committee recommends that the judges be dismissed: Donetsk’s Appellate Chamber of Commerce, Dubois Olen Mikhailovna, in connection with the application for a state of health pension; The Kyiv Economic Court of Pinchuk Andrija Mihajlovich, in connection with the application for resignation; The local Kivertskie District Court of Volin County, Daniluk Anastasia Vasilovna, in connection with the application for a state of health pension; Local Debaltske City Court of the Donetsk district of Kuchmenko Larissa Anatoliyevna, in connection with the application for a state of health and the local Sokal District Court of Lviv Region of Vassil Gnatovic, in connection with the application for resignation. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u177	Dear colleagues, there are no warnings?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u178	Submitted to the vote. Please, Vladimir Stretovich, cancel the vote, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u179	Vladimir Stretović, Christian-Democratic Union. Dear Sergey Vasilovich, distinguished colleagues! On December 9th, the Attorney - General here sounded terrible facts that in the Lviv Court of Appeal, judges were bribed by a well - known judge who was on the run. But these judges, who were bribers, are now working successfully at the Lviv Administrative Court of Appeal. I have a question for you, Sergey Vasilovich. Tell the Ukrainian people, the Ukrainian Parliament, when the committee examines this shameful act and virtually eliminates it, will the Lviv Court of Appeal be dissolved? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u180	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u181	Honourable People's Deputies, the Lviv Court of Appeal, is working, and is carrying out the constitutional functions to be performed. There is no document on this matter in the Supreme Justice Council. You know, under article 131 of the Ukrainian Constitution, we have the right to consider materials related to the dismissal of judges if the Supreme Council of Justice decides. There is no material in this regard today. [[Article 131 of the Constitution]] The leadership of the Supreme Court is present. As far as I know, the Council of Judges of Ukraine has sent a commission there. And the commission is working today, in Lviv district, studying this problem. As soon as the proceedings of this commission are submitted to the Committee and the submissions from the Supreme Council of Justice are presented, we will surely inform you and ask you the question that is necessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u182	Dear colleagues, the question of Vladimir Stretovich is of iron logic. When we considered this problem as a challenge, it was a commission: a committee, together with the Supreme Court of Ukraine, to prepare and bring to the attention of the Supreme Council of Ukraine the issue of the state and problems of the administration of justice in Ukraine. Therefore, it is a great request that we speed up the preparation of this issue so that we can discuss the problem in a comprehensive manner. A draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, registration number 3613, on the release of judges is put to the vote. Please vote. [[12:52:39]] Thank you. For 395. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, let us join together in welcoming judges who have been elected on an untimely basis, and we wish to serve them exclusively in the law of Ukraine. We continue, fellow believers, the consideration of issues in the second reading. A draft Law on the Moratorium of Deprivation of State and Municipal Media Facilities and Property is being announced for consideration. Registration number 0958. The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information. Is there a Victor Alexanderovich? He will report to the First Deputy Head of the Committee, National Deputy Shevchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u183	Colleagues, the position is very simple. We understand that a country is one of the strategic goals in the media sphere and it has the power of the media. The law that we are discussing today should regulate the rules of the game for state media for a transitional period until the adoption of the basic law on public and municipal press reform. Committee position: To support all the amendments discussed and decided upon.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u184	Dear colleagues, but one is the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers until February 15, 2007, as well as the commission until February 20, 2007. You have to make the right adjustments on the date. Please make a proposal to the committee and then Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk. It is obvious that at least three months should be written down to make proposals to the Cabinet of Ministers since the law became effective.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u185	If we can go to the hall with a suggestion to adjust the dates, I think that would be appropriate.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u186	There's still a date for the office of ministers. I'll read it to you, dear fellows. “By February 15, submit a draft law on the definition of property and property rights, which is in the possession of public and municipal media.” It's meant by February 15, 2007. And another suggestion: the Cabinet of Ministers and the State Property Fund, by February 20, 2007, to inform the Supreme Council of the implementation of this law. It is obvious that at least three months should be given to organize work on the implementation of this law after it has been officially made public.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u187	The suggestion is, I think, common sense suggests, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u188	Please, Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u189	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Your Honor, Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, I propose the first draft to vote on her confirmation. And here's what we're talking about: unfortunately, the name of the law narrows down the application of this law. If the first line was state and public media, we're putting it right now, kind of under the right explanation, we're just putting it in the public domain. I'd like to call it media editing. Please take a look at the Prospectus of Victory in the “Kyivska truth”, how many editorials there are, as it were, that made this property with their coat of arms, they're not state-owned, they're not municipal, they're editorials of the respected media. That's why I'm proposing. And they can be thrown out at a cost after this law, for we have very little information left. That is why I propose in the title “media editorials” that every editorial should have the right to the property it is today.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u190	Adam Ivanovich, I think we should make a clear distinction here, because. Well, there have been big changes in the country over the last 20 years. We have public media, we have public media, we have commercial media. First, in the basic version of this law, it was going to cover two groups of media, the state press and the public press. The committee decided to narrow down the scope of application of this law only to state media.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u191	Yuri Klukkowski, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u192	Thank you. Well, first of all, I would like to point out that we have no right to interfere in the exercise of ownership by other entities other than the State. Communal property has other owners and other administrators. And we can't do that, or we're going to have to make changes to the budget and compensate for the damage to the local budgets resulting from these decisions of the public authorities. However, I have a question, Vladimir Mikhailovich, about the changes that are being proposed from hearing and even about the content of these changes. Well, first of all, we owe Kabmin a certain date to submit a bill to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So we're encouraging the legislative initiative of the Cabinet of Ministers? And what is the mandate of the Supreme Council: to force the Cabinet of Ministers to submit a bill before a certain date. We can only recommend it at all, but not set a date, and why should the State Property Fund report on the execution of the Cabinet of Ministers? I think these things need to be taken off, and that's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u193	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u194	If I may, I will respond. Gentlemen, look, I believe that this position, as you suggest, is entirely entitled to exist. Let's talk about the main thing: we have to fix the status quo for that transitional period that the state media will now go through. And that's all that matters. And the next step is to introduce that bill that you just talked about. And so any of these proposals have the right to exist, if we don't cool down the main one, we need to fix the status quo for this transitional period. This was the direction of the committee members who called on the hall to support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u195	National MP Schmelov, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u196	Thank you. In general, we take different forms of ownership. Why are you narrowing down now? For example, the Kiev Truth, publishing. There are three newspapers: “Kiow truth”, “Kyivsky Messenger”, “Evening Kiev”. New directors of the publishing industry have arrived. Our rooms belonged to the editors, the ones I called the newspapers. Now they're sort of putting our candle in there and throwing these newspapers out. They're getting kicked out. So what you have to do is, you're now helping the raiders with this law, you need all the editors, all the media, the newspaper, for example, the Kiev Messenger, the Kiev Truth in 30 years, in 40 years, and now they have to fly out of there, what do they want the hotel to do? The publishing industry is so raided that people have already been reduced there. We have to think about everyone. We have to, democracy is democracy, justice is justice. Note this, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u197	I share your concern for the media. In the meantime, I hope that the Communists will support this bill. And above all, gentlemen, let us treat with respect the various forms of property. Once again, life has changed, there are also state media, there are communal media. Klukkowski’s colleague also gave some positions on this issue. And there's private media. There's the same kind of publishing, like the newspapers. Let's separate the fly from the chops. The position of the drafters of the bill applied to both state and municipal media, but now that I represent the committee's position, I'm going to say that the committee is proposing to narrow the scope of action down to specifically state media.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u198	Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u199	Dear colleagues, let's consult, the question is very painful and right-wing colleagues from the Communist Party, because in fact, historically it was made up that a whole bunch of state media that acted as institutions of the state were reorganized and there is a newspaper in the labor community. It's not some kind of owner or anything. In fact, if by logic, this is both old, so to speak, ideology, this is collective property, one of the types of state, I would say. But this is not the only problem. The problem is that general technology as to how decisions are to be made is, in my opinion, contrary to current legislation. Look, a key thesis on what? It's based on the creation of a list of these texts. What does the committee suggest? To entrust the State Property Fund with the participation of national deputies, members of local councils, representatives, and so forth, to make a list of the premises within ten days. Well, shouldn't MPs make up a list of rooms, my friends? So it's the State Property and Authority Fund and local self-government that's covered these issues. That's why I would so, maybe there's this kind of observation and our colleagues, by the way, from expert management a lot. Maybe we would have really moved it, voted for the third reading or for the second reading, but clearly defined the term, Vladimir Mikhailovich, when we're looking at this bill. Let's say we vote in favour of the second and we assign a committee, but next week we're working on committees, you know, there's no holiday, so next week we're actively working and, let's say, at the sessional week of February 3-7 on Thursday we're looking at this bill as a whole, so that we don't have to laugh here, so that we don't get laughed at, that we're going to go to the MPs and make a census of these texts. So I'm going to propose once again, the second time, and the whole vote in the next plenary week.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u200	Mikola Kruglov, and then Anna Herman, raised his hand a long time ago.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u201	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, I would like us to take advantage of the rules of the Master Code, which says that the founder has no right to remove any property from his business. But given that the enterprise is an enterprise, and the media is a separate law, it is necessary, properly done by the faction of Communists, to choose a state or municipal, to really approach one approach to all forms of property as it is done in the Code of Lords, it is clear that no owner can take away from the statutory fund what he passed and call it unnecessary property. We just need to take this rule of the Master Code carefully and distribute it in the Media Act, because it has more to do with business and stock companies and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u202	Irina, Hanna Hermann, please, and then Irina Heratschenko, then Karmazin, and we finish because this is a discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u203	Ladies and gentlemen, please note this moment, this bill is a compromise and is the first step towards a law that will regulate the reform of state and municipal change and that will finally resolve this problem. But while the time is running out, the state is trying to do things that it doesn't like, that in places that criticise the local authorities just to take away the premises in different ways. We will take this first step to protect editorial groups from the pressure of power on the ground and await the adoption of the law that completely reforms this issue and the municipal and all forms of ownership of the media. But we're expensive here every day, because the local public administrations are taking away the premises, throwing away whole groups, and I've got a whole list of them here.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u204	Irina Heratschenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u205	Dear colleagues, I think we're discussing this issue so violently because the state is actually delaying the adoption of legislation on the dissuasion of the media. And when we say today that this law is going to solve all these issues, here is another topic, the public media in places really, as the head of the public committee said, depending on government authority, but we also place them in the same way as we do in these state authorities in places. That is why we need to adopt appropriate legislation on dissuasion as soon as possible. I would like to support Mr. Tomenko in saying that it is not the task of the National Deputies to make lists of the premises that must be protected there. And in my opinion, I want us to involve the Ukrainian Journalists' Association, not just the local authorities. Because the Journalists of Ukraine have this entire list of public media, it's also a professional committee, it has all these complaints, and we need to work more actively with public profile organizations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u206	Yuri Carmazin. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u207	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense”. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like you to take a closer look at what we have written in the Final Positions, this is article 4. We're entrusting the State Property Fund not only in 10 days to build a list of the premises that are not allowed. We also assign him 20 days of inventory, for each subject to determine the legality of the stay, for each of the premises to determine a part of the state and other subjects, that is, to divide it, and we entrust him with checking the legality of the alienation of the premises. So we're assigning things to the holding fund that are not his own. He doesn't have to check the law, he doesn't. So obviously that's the way it's supposed to be. The law has to be re-readed, and we have to have Government Day, where we have to listen to the appropriate government structures, where we'll have full inventory and everything else, and we'll listen.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u208	Paul Silent. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u209	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, dear Mr. Andrew! Well, the first instinct at Irina Heratchenko's address. We've already done so much, that, in fact, Ukraine doesn't have any of its own information channels, it doesn't have its own publications. Count the number of Ukrainian products in the information field. That's a small percentage. That's different. I'd like to, Mr. Andrey, this is about you and your initiative. You have apparently received information as a member of the committee about what happened during the last month with two publications, which were the glory of Ukraine – the Art and Dnipro Publishing. If we make an amendment here: “the media and publishing media”, we can still be able to save what is at stake today. Yesterday, the Committee on Culture and Spirituality at its meeting approved an appeal to the President, to the mayor of the city, but we did.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u210	Dear colleagues, regarding the publication of “Dnipra”. The team appealed to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the team took over the round defense, and the coworkers stayed the night in that publication. There were 1,000 square feet [1.5 sq m], and virtually everything was taken away by commercial structures. So I'm asking our committee to prepare us to respond to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and to give in hand, including the city authorities, who are making the abuse by taking away the bookstores, now they've taken away all the publications. People's MP Landik. Instead of turning to the President, we need to make a decision that would require law enforcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u211	Thank you. You see, we started a controversy here a little bit before the end, or maybe Andrew didn't explain it to everyone, we're talking about the protection of those labour groups that under the Privatization Act, about dissipation, that is, privatization, that they should not be involved in this privatization, that they should not be taken from other businesses or organizations, but that they already have enterprises other than newspapers, radios, televisions and so on that they are already working, that they are already in dispossessed, that is, OOO or share societies, and that will be re-established on the basis of public enterprises and that they remain there. That's what this is about. We want to protect them now, as long as we don't have to.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u212	Thank you. Please have the Committee's general position.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u213	Colleagues, three key questions: Do or not do? The second is the act of the law. The third is time, the time frame. First. We can look at the future of mass media differently. Someone wants us to have state media, someone doesn't want them to be. But we realize that now that we are talking to you, daily or monthly, or weekly property, the real estate is melting. And when we decide to dissipate, there's nothing to dissipate. So let's do it, let's do it. The second is the subject of this law. The same is true of different viewpoints. The committee concluded that the subject matter of this law is the state press. In the beginning, the authors of the bill wanted to reach out to the municipal press. The position of the committee is to narrow it down to the state press. It's easier with her, including Mr. Klukkowski's warnings. It's about publishing. By sharing all the fibers of the soul’s anxiety about publishing, I feel that this is a subject of a particular subject. And I think the position of the committee is going to be the same as that of the colleagues. And the third, in terms of the term, the time frame when it has to be done. We've lost so much time to do it now. This bill was registered two years ago under the signatures of all factions of the Parliament of the past. There is a compromise position of the committee in today's vocation, for which I very much thank my colleagues from all factions. And I think we need to act now. The term of action of the law is to adopt the basic Law on Public and Municipal Press Reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u214	Vladimir Yavorowski, and we will now make a decision. 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u215	Vladimir Yavorowski, head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, yesterday the committee also discussed the submission of the Dnipro publication, you have already said about it. And yesterday we adopted a unanimous draft of the Supreme Council's decree on the premises of municipal and state publishing. It's registered now. That's why I can now support our colleague's report that if possible, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, tomorrow let's put this decision in order of the day, let's take 10 minutes, but let's solve a very important question. If you report it, it'll be very smart and stately.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u216	Thank you. So let's see, your honors, this motion for determination I would like to multiply, distribute. If the committee has already made a decision, and tomorrow will be good will, we need to make a decision, but we need to make a decision to make it happen, and we need to ensure that the decision is implemented. It's not just about publishing Dnipro, it's about publishing all the publications. Adam Martinyuk, and now we're going to follow procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u217	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I am very pleased that my proposal has received such a lively, interesting discussion, but I am afraid that in the course of this discussion we will forget what we should vote on. Once again, I insist that we should give preferences not only to three public media outlets, because they are probably no longer the Presidential Messenger, the Government Courier and the Voice of Ukraine, and all the rest are either the utilities or the media of the labour community. So let's write in the title of the law "editations of the media". And every media outlet will be protected by our law. If we record only the state media, we are thus all who are now in the Press of Ukraine; all the newspapers that are in the Kiev Truth; all the newspapers that are in the district publications will be expelled from there.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u218	Please take the committee's position, and we'll follow the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u219	Finally, Adam Ivanovich, regarding publishing, specifically the “Kiev truth” and other publications in the fields. In the past, this topic arose, and then the Supreme Council found a very wise decision when these objects were removed from the list of objects that were allowed, subject to, or possible for privatization. This is our way of protecting them for a certain period or for as long as possible. Last one. The public media are not three newspapers. We're talking about verticals, we're talking about notable publications, we're talking about other publications where the founder is the state. As for utilities, once again, the position of the Consolidated Committee is to remove municipal media from this law. Perhaps this will be the subject of a separate law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u220	Dear national MPs, our only opinion is that we need to move, move, and adopt the law. So let's just make sure that we put to the vote now the first amendment that relates to changing the title of the law, that the title of the law is narrowed down, that there are only one public media outlet left, and the municipal media are deleted. So if this amendment is not supported, there's going to be the original title of the law, and we're going to keep moving. I'm putting to the vote amendment number one. People's deputies please identify themselves. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:16:16]] For 181 The decision is not taken. That is, the name of the law remains: “On the moratorium on exclusion from public and municipal media, premises and property”. [[One minute, dear fellows, it'll be a second reading, I can't make a change.]] Now, please, your amendment to the amendment. Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u221	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. It is a good thing that at least the original ones are expanded to contain and municipal ones. But once again, I stress my proposal: the best thing to do is to take away both state and municipal media, to leave "new media outlets" -- all editorials, all of them! Because here is an absolutely right colleague of Klukkowski's, that the public media, Vladimir Mikhailovich, in the public media, we don't have the right to intervene in municipal property. Therefore, it is better to leave the pure name “news of the media”. No government, no municipal, no collective, no purely editorial. Please make such a correction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u222	Dear colleagues, the logic of such a question is, but it means that the law will not be adopted, so let's say that, at least, I address you, the honourable Adam Ivanovich, let's take it from you, if there is the will of the Supreme Council, that we will now protect even if there are national and municipal editorials, and then we'll make another decision, because now we're going to have to re-read it. By the time we're ready, we'll be out of time again. Well, I see the mood -- the decision won't be made. Please, Schmelova. We had to make proposals to this law, fellow believers. You didn't, and now I can't put it to the vote. Please, not all at once.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u223	What would I want you to do? So you can hear me. We are already being thrown out of those publications, 32 of which have been sold. It is now “Kyivska Truth”. These raiders are now taking advantage of this and are pushing out three newspapers: “Evening Kiev”, “Kyivsky Messenger”, “Kyivska pravnosti”. Listen, Adam Ivanovich says: “All media. ” Because one - 30, one - 40, but when the Union collapsed, they all tried to survive, and all of them 30 - to - 40 years, but they're not state-owned, they're not communal. Do you understand? It's not like we're protecting state property.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u224	I am addressing you, national deputies, and Oleg Laska in particular. You want to look at all the bills. Now we've turned it into a discussion of this law. There is no discussion. Everybody take your seats! And I suggest you, dear colleagues, including in writing you should have made an amendment. We did not support an amendment from a committee that found a positive solution. The law is called: “The moratorium on alienation from public and municipal media and property”. Let's take some steps. Next. All other offers are included. As far as the terms of implementation of this law are concerned, I would like to draw attention to the right part. The Uklov National MP proposed terms, they are acceptable, supported by a committee. So we have every reason to take into account the newly voted decision on the name of the law to put a proposal to the vote: the adoption of the law in the second reading and in general as a law. Registration number 0958. Please vote. [[13:20:18]] For 351 Decision taken. I ask that with regard to the media, the founders of which are labour groups, prepare a corresponding draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the form of a law, so that we can take the next step and resolve this problem. With that in mind, I think we have a reason to finish our consideration of the matter. But commission to the committee, if you don't mind: to prepare a draft law quickly so that we can consider it and allow all media groups to work in less acceptable conditions under Ukrainian conditions, I'm sorry for the tautology. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on the exchange of information on recipients of social benefits]] Registration number 0969, second reading. The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Social Policy and the work of Mikhailo Mikolaiovich Papiev. Please. It's a request for us to work more quickly right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u225	Thank you. Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, a bill is being tabled for your consideration, which is now called The Amendment of Certain Ukrainian Laws. [[on the provision of information on persons receiving insurance payments]] In view of the fact that it was a Ukrainian bill, which was first viewed as being initiated by the Ukrainian National Deputies. After that, we got a notice from the legal authorities, all the full observations of the legal administration that was given, and that's about not collecting information on persons without their prior consent, because that violates the rights of the person. They're all included in this bill, and they've made some changes to it by the Ukrainian people's deputies. In all, 13 proposals were made by Ukrainian national deputies. In fact, they're all accounted for, except for one, but it's an editorial version of the title of this bill, and amendment number six, where there's an argument that it's included in the State Budget Act 2008. We've been looking at the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2009 and it's also taken into account. Therefore, there is a decision by the Committee on Social Policy and Labour: to agree with the text of a comparative table in the draft Ukrainian Law and to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the prescribed bill in second reading and in general. [[0969]] Now I'm ready for the repairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u226	Dear colleagues, the amendments are all taken into account except for one - 5th amendment. Is Krutz's national deputy insisting on this amendment? Oh, no? Then a second reading proposal is put to the vote for adoption by the Committee and in general as the Act on Amendments to Certain Laws of Ukraine. [[on the exchange of information on recipients of social benefits]] Registration number, 0969. Please vote. [[13:23:42]] For 378 The law is passed. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine, registration number 0946, is being announced for consideration. [[on the bringing into conformity of legislative acts in connection with the renaming of individual government bodies]] [[second reading]] The rapporteur is the deputy head of the Committee on Transport and Communications, Yuri Borisovich Kruk. Please, Yuri Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u227	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! The draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws to bring legislation into line with the name of individual government authorities, registration number 0946, was adopted on first reading by the Supreme Council on 8 May 2007 and is of a purely technical nature. The bill aims to bring three codes, four laws of Ukraine into line with the registration and renaming of the Ministry of Transport of Ukraine, the State Committee on Communications and Information which, following merger, formed the Ministry of Transport and Communications, as well as the restructuring of the Ministry of Fisheries, the Ministry of the Environment, the nuclear security of Ukraine. To this end, it is proposed that they be defined in accordance with existing legal practice as central executive bodies on their competence. This would prevent the subsequent practice of amending laws after the subsequent designation of ministries or agencies. The adoption of the law will provide an opportunity to remedy the discrepancies in the Code of Merchandise Navigation, the Code of Administrative Offences, the Air Code, the Transport Laws, the Rail Transport Laws, the transit of goods and the radio-frequency resource. Avoid legal conflicts in the preparation and adoption of new legislation, governmental and parliamentary international agreements, which are being drafted with reference to these legal acts. The draft introduces 61 articles, 7 laws and regulations of Ukraine, which retain the former names of government authorities. During the drafting of the second reading bill, 25 proposals were received to the Committee from six Ukrainian people's deputies. Of the amendments received, 15, part seven were taken into account, three were rejected. With the people's deputies whose amendments have been partially taken into account or rejected, the issue is agreed upon and they do not insist on their amendments. In the light of the foregoing, the Committee therefore proposes that the draft law be adopted on second reading and in general as a law, taking into account the proposals of the Office of the Chief Legal Officer of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u228	Dear colleagues, there is no objection to any one of us putting to the vote a proposal for a second reading committee and, in general, a bill of the Act on Amendments to Certain Laws of Ukraine, registration No.0946? [[on the bringing into conformity of legislative acts in connection with the renaming of individual government bodies]] Please vote. [[13:27:40]] For – 368 Decision taken. The draft Law on the Public Programme for the Elimination of the Operation of Chernobyl AES and the Conversion of the Object of Protection to an Environmentally Safe System, Registration No. 2635, second reading, is being announced for consideration. The rapporteur is Head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster, Anatoly Ivanovich Seminoga. Please, Anatoly Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u229	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished fellow members of the National MPs, your second reading of the draft Ukrainian Law on the National Programme for the Exploitation of the Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant and the Conversion of the Hidden Object into an Environmentally Safe System. The bill was designed to implement the Supreme Council's decision on the state of affairs, the prospects for overcoming the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, adopted on the basis of parliamentary hearings held in April 2008. The draft legislation included comments, proposals by national deputies of Shershun, Calchenka, Seminoga, Glazunova, Tolstouchova, Danilenko, Vaschuk and the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. In total, eighteen proposals were made, eighteen amendments that were fully considered. The chief legal authority of the Supreme Council apparatus called for a bill without notice. The Committee of the Supreme Council, at its meeting, decided to support the bill and recommend that the Supreme Council accept it on second reading and generally as a law. The adoption of this bill will contribute to the implementation of the State policy on the preparation and removal and removal of Chernobyl AES and the conversion of the “Hidden” facility into an environmentally sound system and the protection of staff, populations and the environment from the effects of ionising radiation. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u230	Ladies and gentlemen, all proposals are taken into account, agreed that we have so few, completely with our legal expertise. Before voting, please, government position, microphone. _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ The government's backing it up.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u231	The government also supports this bill. So I'm voting on the committee's proposal to adopt in a second reading and as a whole as a bill of the Law on the Statewide Program for the Exploitation of the Chernobyl AES and the conversion of the "Hiddenance" object into an environmentally sound system, registration number 2635, please vote. [[13:30:49]] For 391 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we now need to consider the inclusion of a number of bills in the agenda of the day session. Be alkaline, Adam Martinyuk, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u232	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I am absolutely, our faction has no objection to such a chapter, but I would like to ask you, Alexander Volodymyrovich, when you're drawing up a plan for the consideration of issues, let's not break up, and then we'll put it into consideration, then we'll interrupt again, and now we'll interrupt the second reading chapter. We go to the second reading, we interrupt the inclusion in the agenda, then we resume the second reading. I propose that we finish the chapter “Other Readings” now, and after that when it stands, not that we have three times today in this plan three times we have a chapter in the agenda, we can put it all together in one chapter.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u233	Please, Alexander Lavrinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u234	Dear Adam Ivanovich, I would ask that somehow the problem be treated more calmly, the decisions of the Conciliation Council, which has taken a decision and understood that the further projects that have been implemented have not been prepared, and we will not now consider them, because there are no comparative tables or other materials. And this is the decision of the Conciliation Council, so please be calm.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u235	Dear colleagues, we do have some colossals here, beyond a number of orders from the Supreme Council of Ukraine to prepare drafts for the second reading, they are not done, and today, there are no tables yet to be considered. So that's what we've come up with. In Russian, the chorespolystica. Please, Adam Martinyuk, a replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u236	Alexander Volodymyrovich, I totally support what you're saying, but you don't want to understand what I'm asking. We have a chapter entitled “Second Reading”, and I understand that the following bills that we should consider in the second reading are not prepared. How will logic change? If it were, indeed, logically, that these questions of inclusion in the agenda would follow the second reading. Now we've come up with drafts that aren't ready and said that they're not ready and we're looking at the next chapter on inclusion in the agenda. Another thing I'm saying is that we just broke up the second reading, well, another unit. That's it. It's for the convenience of our work and your work, including. That's just the point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u237	Note and offer are fully accepted. Dear colleagues, I'll bet on the vote. Attention, please. - on the inclusion in the agenda of the Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine with a view to overcoming the negative effects of the financial crisis. Please vote for inclusion in the agenda. [[13:34:13]] For 377 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, given the importance of this bill, let us now accept this proposal. To have the committee work on this bill so that we can get to the next one. Dear colleagues, we've put in the agenda. We will not discuss the matter. Well, there's no subject to discuss. Because we have decided on the Conciliation Council according to the Rules, we will work exclusively. So let's agree on a protocol commission for the committee to prepare it for consideration so that at the beginning of the first plenary week of the next session we can consider it and determine how to make a decision. What are we here to discuss?Oh, my God! What? Dear colleagues, we have decided that without the committee's decision, there will be no first reading. And I would ask you not to push me into a violation. Well, what do you want to talk about on the first reading? There is no committee decision. We made a decision yesterday on the Conciliation Council, Ivan Grigorovich. You got it? Copy that. Please, Klimenko. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u238	. People's Party. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'd like you to give a commission to our committee, because yesterday we had a committee meeting, but unfortunately, it didn't take place because of the absence of a committee head. But there is one who works in the hall, the first deputy. So if you give this commission, if he gathers our committee, of course, we're in great respect for the Supreme Council of Ukraine and this drafter of the bill, because in fact today he's bringing up very urgent questions that will first come out of the financial situation that he is today. And given that this will be the first reading, it can be put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u239	Dear colleagues, there will be no discussion of this bill. Please, calm down. Dear colleagues, well, you'll also be proposing what Comrade Klimenko has offered. Let's do this, we made a decision on the Conciliation Council yesterday: let's go to work in accordance with the Supreme Council Rules. I want to reassure you that in a maximum of 5 to 10 days, I will sign the law as Head of the Supreme Council on the organization of the work of the Supreme Council, which the President has promised. The Supreme Council overcame the President's veto. And we won't have to force these efforts to break the Rules. We agreed yesterday that if there was a breach of the Rules on one side, then there was good reason to ask questions, to consider a draft decree on the mistrust of the government. We agreed that we would follow a regular procedure. Oleg Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u240	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, citizens of Ukraine! The faction “Blank of the Yulia Timoshenko” has never violated the Supreme Council’s Rules and acts only in accordance with the law. What do we insist on? We insist that we consider the bill today. In the morning, we voted on a decree that again drew the President's attention to the impeccability of Stelmach's stay. Bill 3585. It's interconnected things, it's going to minimize the consequences of the criminal activity of the National Bank. He'll save the rest of the money, as is still in the citizens' pockets. So, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, if you insist so much, give the commission to meet the appropriate committee today and to consider this law tomorrow. We can't take that question for February-month. You and I will go to the voters, the session won't work, and Stella and the company will keep rolling the bracelet.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u241	Thank you. Adam Martinyuk, and we'll keep working.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u242	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, especially those who applauded the last words of the previous speaker. This law has nothing to do with Stelmach. It's a law that bankers wrote to protect banks. It's the bankers meeting, another series of these meetings. Automobiles wrote to themselves, agrarians wrote and so on. There's help to be done. But if, in these circumstances, laws are adopted to further increase the exploitation of people's banks, accept. But there's something else I want to say and remind you of. Dear members of the Conciliation Council and yesterday's faction leaders' meeting, and on Monday, when the Conciliation Council met, there was a clear decision that the bill would only be considered by the committee. If the committee has not considered it, please take 30 days, then we will have the right to consider it without consideration by the committee. Now, let's not violate the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u243	Ladies and gentlemen, Bill 3585 we have placed in the order of the day. He will be considered after considering his committee, no matter what decision he makes. If the committee does not meet, will not consider, I am convinced that we will consider it as required by the Rules. And now there's a request for a committee and a committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u244	In order for the committee to quickly meet and consider the bill and make appropriate recommendations to the Supreme Council. And once again, my honourable colleagues, I would like to say, forget all about breaking the Rules, we will act in accordance with the Rules, regardless of who stands for whom. As far as Bill 3614 is concerned, we've also taken it into account by adopting an appropriate decision, and there's no need to put it into the agenda right now. We must now continue the consideration of drafts by the second reading procedure. Since comparative tables are not ready for these bills, they are 3250-D, 0918, 3081, 3451-1, 2375, 3065, 3011, 3535. We will return to them after the necessary tables are given. If a table is given to the draft Law on Temporary Investigations Commissions, a special interim commission and temporary special commissions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we will approach them. We don't have them yet, as soon as they're handed out, we'll get to the bottom of this. Dear colleagues, once again, there is no document prepared for consideration, don't press me. We need to make up our minds to make decisions on the issues that have been discussed. Please, don't worry. Dear colleagues, when a comparative table is given out, the conclusions of the Legal Committee, we will continue not now, at 16 o'clock. I don't have these documents personally. Give them to me, Secretariat, please. If you'll just mind, please, and please give everyone a comparative table, a conclusion of the judiciary, we'll be right back to that question, we've agreed. We need to make decisions on the issues that have been discussed before, that is, on the recommendations of parliamentary hearings. The draft Ordinance on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on the Status of Respect for Constitutional Guarantees of Workers' Rights, registered number 3555, has been announced for consideration. Hara Vasil Georgievovich, please. Who will answer from the Committee on Social Policy and Work? Jaroslav Suhi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u245	Dear colleagues, if you recall, here in this session hall, we discussed this subject during parliamentary hearings: the state of compliance with the constitutional guarantees of the labour rights of citizens. At the Committee on Social Policy and Work, all your comments were taken into account. At the suggestion of the 3555 Committee, all members of the committee voted in the session room as a whole, because there are no comments that would go to some level of political accusation. This is a statement that there are a number of problems in Ukraine today with the implementation of the European Social Charter that we have ratified with you. The point is that our first report took place in October, and we have a whole series of comments from the European community. So I'm making a proposal on behalf of the Committee on Social Policy and Work to support the draft decree number 3555.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u246	Dear colleagues, if there are no warnings, I will put to the vote a draft decree to approve it as a decree. No warning? The proposal for a committee on the adoption of the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Resolution on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on the Status of Compliance with Constitutional Guarantees of Workers' Rights is submitted to the vote. Registration number 3555. Please vote. [[13:44:53]] For 354 Decision taken. The draft Ordinance on the Special Report of the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine on Human Rights "The State of Ukraine's Compliance with International Standards in the Field of Human Rights and Freedoms" is under review. The rapporteur is the head of the Subcommittee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations, Eduardo Ivanovich Pavlenko. Please. Well, if they say so now, we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u247	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! On December 10, 2008, on the occasion of the 60th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the Human Rights Commissioner, Carpache Nina Ivanovna, submitted a special report in accordance with part three of article 18 of the Ukrainian Law “On the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights”: “The State of Compliance with International Standards in the Field of Human Rights and Freedoms”. This special report of the Authorized Body was based on the systematic generalization of all the comments and recommendations of the UN Conventional Organs over the entire period since the declaration of independence of Ukraine, as well as on UN Human Rights Council materials as a result of a universal periodic review in 2008 on the status of respect for human rights and freedoms in Ukraine. The report proposes measures to bring national human rights and freedoms legislation into line with international standards and compliance with Ukraine’s international obligations. According to part four of article 18 of the above - mentioned law, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, for a special report, takes a decision. The preparation of this question is referred to the subject of the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and National Relations. On December 24, 2008, the committee approved the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for a special report from the Commissioner for Human Rights and submitted it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The committee proposes a draft regulation on a special report by the Human Rights Council of the Supreme Commissioner: “The State of Ukraine’s compliance with international standards in the field of human rights and freedoms” – to be adopted as a basis and as a whole. [[Registration number 3557]] Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u248	Dear colleagues, before putting a draft ruling to the vote, I would like to draw the committee's attention: continue to formulate the paragraphs accordingly. Paragraph four: “Publication in the newspaper “The Voice of Ukraine” of the Authorised. ” Well, the “report” – I still understand, but if the Supreme Council decides to publish all the speeches, it is clear that the parliamentary newspaper should explain the activities of the Supreme Council and everything that is going on in the Supreme Council. Dear colleagues, I would like to say that the Supreme Council should be the Supreme Council. I'd like to take that into account. I'm betting on a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on a special report commissioned by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on human rights, a state of compliance by Ukraine with international standards in the field of human rights and freedoms. Registration number 3557 for adoption as a whole. Please vote. [[13:48:41]] For 387 Decision taken. We turn to the chapter “Re-examination with the proposals of the President of Ukraine”, which is a review of the laws on which the President of Ukraine has applied the veto. We continue the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for 15 minutes, that is, 14 hours 15 minutes. The Ukrainian law on the purchase of land for private property for social and social needs is announced for consideration, with proposals by the President of Ukraine since 13.06.2007. The co-rapporteur of the Head of the Ukrainian Secretariat, Mr. Goncharuk Andriy Ivanovich, will be the co-rapporteur of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, please. Is there a representative of the President? [[B in m in s a l in]] No, it's not. Please, Gregory Yudkomovich Smythuch.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u249	Honourable National Deputies, on April 19, 2007, the Supreme Council of Ukraine was adopted in a second reading and, in general, as a law of Ukraine on the redemption of land for private property for social purposes and on grounds of social necessity. But the President of Ukraine. It was returned with observations. In the Committee’s consideration, it was taken into account that in today’s market relations, ownership of land cannot be absolute and must perform such a social function as is done in other countries to ensure the realization of the social interests of citizens of the State, the territorial communities. Almost all agricultural land was being grown without the needs of cities, mining industry, transport, other sectors of agriculture, as well as problems related to the implementation of such enterprises as Euro-2012, namely the construction of new and reconstruction airports, roads, including the district around Kiev, the development of road infrastructure cannot be resolved without the adoption of this law. Taking into account the above, as well as the conclusions of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and in line with article 130 of the Supreme Council Rules of Ukraine, our committee proposes that the Supreme Council of Ukraine amend the prescribed law for the work of the Main Committee – the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on agrarian policy and land relations. So we're going to take those comments into account, we're going to review them again, so we asked the Supreme Council not to accept them, so that we don't overpower the President's veto, return to the committee, and go to the next session to address this issue. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u250	Dear colleagues, we're going to have two votes on this. First of all, it's the President's offer to reject. If the President's proposal is not supported, a second vote will be put on the President's veto. With this in mind, please prepare for the vote. Adam Martinyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u251	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. I don't understand the position of the committee, and more specifically, I don't see it. The committee is not ready to consider the issue, because the committee should consider the President's proposals and make a decision. You weren't sent to work, and you were supposed to be in the president's position to redraft the law. If your proposals had not been taken into account, we would have sent you back for further work under the Rules. And so you're asking us to do what you have to do without us. If you are not ready to report today, you cannot consider it at all. The committee, when it makes proposals, or if you agree to the president's proposals, either take into account the president's proposals, or overcome the veto, that's the way it is. And you're asking me to do what you're a faction to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u252	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I stressed that this bill was adopted by the Supreme Council as a whole, but the President of Ukraine vetoed it. Therefore, the Supreme Council will certainly vote: first, to overcome the veto, this is the first decision and second, the committee's decision to send it to work between the second and the third readings. Please, if the Supreme Council is to decide from the President's veto.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u253	Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the vote. The first will be the vote on the proposal by the President of Ukraine to reject the Ukrainian Law on the Buy-up of Land Private Property for Social Needs and Reasons for Social Need, Registration No0861. Please determine how to vote. [[13:54:21]] For – 39 The decision is not taken. So, if you'll excuse me, please. The next is a vote on the proposal to overcome the veto of the President of Ukraine on the Ukrainian Law on the Buy-up of Land Private Property for Social Needs and Reasons of Social Need, Registration No0861. Please vote. [[13:54:58]] For – 48 The decision is not taken. The law is rejected. The factions, please. Region Party – 0, “Clock Timoshenko” – 1, “Our Ukraine” – 1, Communist faction – 27, “Clock Lithuania” – 19. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u254	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would ask if I could ask him to return it to the Supreme Council committee to look into the matter. This question was formed in this way.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u255	Please, People's Deputies, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u256	This question was formed by me in such a way that we know the mood of the Supreme Council that this law will not be.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u257	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, the idea proposed by the committee after we have already voted, failed to overcome the veto and disregarded the proposal, has the right to exist, because the law is really necessary. Let's take the history of building a bridge across the Dnipro River. We're headed for the Russian Gardens and everything, and there's no bridge. Let's take the construction of the county road around Kiev, collect the oligarchs of the land, and today the three ways out of the budget are pulling the money out of the land. That is why this bill is needed, but it needs to be worked out. It should be reviewed, processed, and taken back to the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u258	Ladies and gentlemen, if we are not to continue this discussion, I ask you to listen carefully. When the law comes with the comments of the President of Ukraine, the committee considers it and takes decisions, taking fully into account the President's proposals, in part proposing a new law. Either he's offering to agree with the President to reject the bill or to break the veto into the President's law. Since the committee worked as well as it did, there was every reason to put to the vote that you knowingly knew that you were voting, first of all about the rejection of the law as proposed by the President of Ukraine when he wasn't rejected, secondly, about overcoming the veto. If the President's veto does not go to law, the law is rejected. So, dear colleagues, it's a conversation for the poor. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Criminal and Procedural Codes of Ukraine on the Use of a Child for begging, with proposals by the President of Ukraine dated 24.10.2008, is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 0981]] Reporter: Deputy Minister Jemeljyanov, Justice, Deputy Minister, co-reporter will address the Committee on Legislative Protection of Sweden, Victor Dmitrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u259	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u260	I'm sorry about the minister. Regrettably, the minister is in a traffic jam and can't and would call and ask for it. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, please! Dear colleagues, the minister respects him, he was in the Supreme Council all day yesterday, so let's treat him accordingly. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u261	Start?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u262	Dear colleagues, the question has already begun, please, Roman Zvaric, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u263	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, with all due respect to the Deputy Minister of Justice, by the way, to this office that I once had the privilege of leading. It's not about the Ministry of Justice, it's about the President-designate of Ukraine to present this bill. Therefore, the Vice-Minister of Justice cannot present the President's proposals, since the President has determined that the only one who can present his proposals is the Minister of Justice. I therefore ask you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, not to ask such a question, but to await the President-designate in this matter to present the proposals of the President of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u264	I've already announced 15 minutes. Dear colleagues, let me put to the vote that the Supreme Council should agree that the report on this issue should be made by Deputy Minister Emilianov. Please vote. Well, I'll put it to a vote. Well, I'm asking you to determine the Supreme Council. [[14:00:07]] For 354 Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u265	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! The Supreme Council of October 1st adopted the Act amending the Criminal, Criminal and Procedural Codes of Ukraine concerning the use of a child for begging. Along with the proposed changes, additional punishments have been added to the Criminal Code, such as the removal of parental rights. However, after making changes to the general part, the legislator also made no changes to the specific part of the article of the Criminal Code. And this is not consistent with the general principles of sentencing, which determine that any type of punishment is either fundamental or additional, can only be imposed in cases and only within the limits of the sanctions of a particular part. In addition, the proposed law provided that the deprivation of parental rights could be applied on the grounds and in accordance with the Family Code. At the same time, however, there is no mechanism for how a person should be deprived of his parental rights within the framework of criminal justice when a time limit for sentencing is reached, how he will be reinstated in his parental rights, and how no mechanism has been defined, how he will do so, and who has the authority to do so. In view of all of this, the President proposed paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of article 1 of the law to exclude from the Ukrainian Act amending the Criminal Code, the Criminal Procedure Code. I'd like to support you, distinguished national MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u266	Thank you, Inna Ivanovna. Please sit down. Vladimir Romanovich Moisik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u267	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! It was likely that a technical failure occurred when the law was passed on October 1st, and it provided for additional punishments in the form of the deprivation of parental rights of persons who use a child for begging. Parliament disagreed and this rule as a form of punishment did not fall into the law. At the same time, it remained in the list of forms of punishment to which such punishment was added as the deprivation of parental rights. So the President drew attention to our mistake and asked for it to be corrected. The Committee on Law Enforcement asks you, Your Honor, to support the President's proposals. They are accepted by the Chief Legal Authority, the authors of the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-15-m0.u268	Thank you, Vladimir Romanovich. Please sit down. I am voting on the proposal of the President of Ukraine to remove from the text adopted by the Supreme Council the law in section one, paragraphs 1, 2, 3 of the first article according to the Committee's recommendations. I'd like to make a statement. [[14:03:37]] For 382 Decision taken. The morning plenary session is closed. At 4 p.m., the evening plenary will begin.
