ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:20]] There were 432 national deputies registered in the session hall. The next meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Honourable National Deputies of Ukraine, on January 25th, on the day of the 33rd year of life, the Ukrainian National Deputy, a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues, member of the faction of the Party of Regions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Valery Alexanderovich Bukayev. Please honor our colleague’s memory by a moment of silence. Please sit down. Dear colleagues in relation to the funeral, we have a commission. Time, place - you will be told more about all this. I would ask that we honor our colleague by giving him a gift of memory. Please keep that in mind. As you know, on 22 January of this year, 155 Ukrainian national deputies, members of the deputy faction of the Yulia Timoshenko, were called upon to hold an extraordinary plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as provided for in article 19 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and related to the requirements of part two of article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine. The MPs made a proposal to consider at the extraordinary plenary meeting the issue of the report of the Head of the National Bank and the removal of the Head of the National Bank, Stelmach Vladimir Semenović, the first deputy head of the National Bank of Ukraine, Shapovalov Anatolia Vasilovich, from positions held and the appointment of the Acting Head of the National Bank of Ukraine. Such regulations are proposed and are being proposed at the same time that we consider them as a single issue. Initiator of the proposal to hold an extraordinary plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to allow the presentation of the information within 10 minutes. In order to report to the National Bank of Ukraine, within 20 minutes, as required by the Rules, and to answer the questions to the rapporteur, within 15 minutes. If there's any more questions, I think we can take some time. To speak from the Committee on Finance and Banking for 15 and 10 minutes, respectively. For information on the head of the TSC on the verification of the activities of the National Bank of Ukraine during the financial crisis, 10 minutes and 10 minutes, respectively. For information on the head of the Accounting Chamber, within 5-10 minutes, depending on how much information there will be. If there are any questions to the head of the Accounting Chamber, in five minutes. And a speech by the head of the Committee on National Security and Defence, Mr. Gretchen Anatolia Stepanovich, within five minutes, this proposal was considered and agreed upon at the Conciliation Council. Presentations by representatives of the MPs - 5 minutes, 25 minutes. To discuss the question - 15 minutes, to make decisions - within 5 minutes. And he'll be speaking separately from the Interim Investigation Commission in the next five minutes. Is there no objection? Dear colleagues, let's do it this way, we are now. I'm asking you, let's confirm. If we have anything to say and what to say. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, let's do 20 minutes. [[B in m in s a l in]] Now, now. Dear colleagues, your suggestions are made. I'd like you to sign up for five minutes on how we can organize our work, our motivations and procedures. Please sign in. I'd like you to put on the board the name of the national MPs who signed up. National MP Pierres, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u2	Please pass on the word Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u3	Ivan Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u4	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! We support the rules on this very topical issue, but we very much ask that they be put to the vote and all the draft regulations that are proposed, and especially draft laws. Today, on the Conciliation Council, there were a number of fair remarks about what it would be important for us to adopt a law first to deal with these problems and then to resolve the human resources issue in full compliance with the Constitution, in accordance with the laws. Such laws and laws have already been worked out and are, starting with Law 3585 and a number of others. Vladimir Mikhailovich, given that these laws have been registered, has, in some cases, been more than a month since the date of registration, can be put to the vote today, reviewed and made the appropriate decision, for the committee, unfortunately, is blocked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u5	Gretchen Anatoly Stepanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u6	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I have an offer to invite the head of the Board of the National Bank of Dusty Petr Aleksyyyovich, and to you, Vladimir Mikhajlovich, I think colleagues will support, also take five minutes for information to the head of the Council on this issue, especially since we don't have the head of the National Bank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u7	Alla Alexandrovska.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u8	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. I believe that it is not possible to discuss such a serious issue that concerns many people living in Ukraine, affects them, and it is up to us, by the way, to make the regulations very short. People need to understand why the Supreme Council met at an extraordinary meeting today. Why do we care about this question that we are proposing? The question is not only in condemning the activities of Nazbank and the head of Nazbank but also in the question of what we must do to match the negatives caused by such activities by the National Bank of Ukraine. Therefore, I propose that regulations be made so that we can explain to people the position of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and explain what is happening today in Ukraine, including in the financial field.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u9	Valerius Konovaluk, faction of the Party of the Regions
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u10	Valery Konovaluk faction of the Party of the Regions. Please give the word to your colleague Kinah.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u11	Anatoly Kirilovich Kinach, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u12	Thank you! Dear National Deputies! The currency exchange policy in Ukraine is definitely chaotic, unsystemic, with deep manifestations of corruption. The rights of millions of Ukrainian citizens who do not have access to their deposits, accounts, are being violated, in fact, in isolation from access to credit resources, which deepens the socio-economic, industrial and financial crisis in Ukraine. But we insist that exchange rate policy is a common result of the activities of the Cabinet of Ministers and the National Bank, which depends on the trade balance, the balance of payments, the competitiveness of exports, the capacity of citizens in the internal market. Thus, the faction of the Party of the Regions insists that a statement from the Party of the Regions be included in the daytime agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u13	Give me a chance to finish. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u14	The faction of the Party of the Regions therefore insists on taking responsibility for the socio-economic crisis, so that the intervention of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine will be heard when considering the issue of the National Bank of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u15	People's Deputy Pudov, faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u16	Pudov, the bloc of Yulia Timoshenko. I would like to give the floor to the People's Deputy of our faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u17	The upstairs microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u18	Uphill, Yulia Timoshenko. He literally spent the last days of Saturday and Sunday with his voters in Luhansk and most of the questions that asked these questions, the stability of the banking system itself. People want to be assured that the banking system will work, that the dollar will be more or less weighted, not the draconian one that the National Bank of Ukraine has set up today. That's the first one. We support that agenda, which today has been echoed by the proposals made by the leader of the Kirilenko faction Ivan Grigorovich, must include in the consideration of the draft legislation relating to the activities of the National Bank and the organization of the appointment of the head of the National Bank so that we do not have the kind of vacchanal that we have today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u19	Viacheslav Kirilenko is given the right to speak by Roman Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u20	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “For Ukraine” MP. It's certainly a good thing that we're listening to Natzbank today, dear colleagues, but I do have a question, and what is Nazbank hanging in the air on his own? And why isn't there an economics minister who's also involved in financial and credit policy, why there's no Pinzenik finance minister, who we know, on many financial issues and credit issues in the government right now has a separate opinion, we want to listen to him as a professional and find out the whole objectivity of the situation. Secondly, we're going to talk about the course and we're going to do the right thing, and who's going to tell us about pensions and wages that start to fail? Why is thirty - five percent of the income is filled after January by the twenty - first number, who will tell us? Clearly, there are only some things that are convenient for someone to listen to and keep quiet. And we also need to hear how the government wants to fill the income part of the budget. There's an absolute lack of clarity on this question, so there were government representatives in bed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u21	Thank you. Alexander Lavrinovich, and now we will continue our work.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u22	Dear colleagues, it is not often that we gather together for the next plenary meetings and that it is now clear on the Conciliation Council that it is necessary to act meaningfully, consistently and legally in order to get the result. Today, we have taken the next step to warm up the overall process. The fact that the National Bank of Ukraine has problems with the basic constitutional function of maintaining the stability of the national currency unit is beyond question. And 420 deputies in this room have already expressed the need to change the direction of the National Bank. What is the problem, then, that we cannot legally do so? We are now saying that let us now include in the order of the day those laws that could serve as a basis for resolving the issue. However, we know exactly that article 19 of the Rules stipulates that at such a meeting that we have today, on an unprecedented basis, only the questions raised by the initiators are being addressed. What prevented John Grigorovich from bringing up the questions you are talking about today? Nothing bothered me. Moreover, there are understandings and oppositions on these issues, and most. It's not done. So today, we're in this situation where we have no legitimate grounds at all to consider this issue, because it's not within the purview of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we're going to have a big discussion today, we're going to make some decisions, and then we're going to say that the Supreme Council is being despised and we're not following up on those decisions. But we are now involved in the fact that we do not comply with the requirements of the Basic Law of Ukraine, articles 19th, 85th, we are considering issues that are not within the competence of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, even though it may become within its competence if amendments to the National Bank Act are made and become effective, and then the issue could be considered. The question that doesn't divide the session room and the question that society expects -- we need to provide a stable bracelet, we need to stop having individual bankers and politicians take advantage of course fluctuations. But what are we doing? We're only doing what we do once again. Today, we're going to have a big discussion, and this discussion will only produce the result that there will be an even greater problem with the stability of the national monetary unit. So I would like us to do this discussion today, not all day long, just to get society as excited as possible, but to define positions and to understand for ourselves the correct algorithm that will necessarily result in a result that there is no contradiction in this room.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u23	Dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts. I want to emphasize again. To make it clear that we can only deal with issues today that are determined by the initiators of the extraordinary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, no more. It's in the development of the proposal that we today consider laws that relate to the activities of the National Bank. But we made a decision with you and agreed that with the start of the next session on Thursday, which is 5 numbers, we have to look at these laws, draft laws. This is the decision of the Conciliation Council. Regarding Anatolia Grizzenka's proposal to invite the head of the Supervisory Board. If there is no objection, please invite us. I think we need to do this. Anatolia Kirilovich Kinaha – representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine will be present. I ask that representatives of economic and financial ministries be invited to participate in our work, as well as if there are questions that they can answer. We've already discussed this. It's not coming through. There's no question. Alla Alexandrowski's proposal is to continue the discussion. Let's take half an hour to talk. We'll have more than three and a half hours if there's no objection. And basically all the suggestions. So, dear fellows, I would like to put to the vote a motion for approval of the Rules of Work today. To the initiators of the extraordinary meeting, within 10 minutes, for a report by the Head of the National Bank, within 20 minutes, the questions will be answered, up to 15 minutes, for a statement by the representative of the committee, the head of the Committee on Finance and Banking, up to 15 minutes, the answers to questions, up to 10 minutes, the head of the TSK, Yuri Poluniev, up to 10 minutes, to answer questions to the head of the TSC, up to 10 minutes. [[If we have to continue the question-answer]] A member of the temporary special committee, Lukyanov, will speak with special attention for up to five minutes. Information from the head of the Accounting Chamber is up to five minutes. If there are any questions to the head of the Accounting Chamber, in five minutes. Head of the National Security and Defence Committee in five minutes, head of the Supervisory Board in five minutes. If there are government representatives and there are questions for them, for the speeches, in five minutes. Presentations by representatives of the MPs are 25 minutes, five minutes. Discussion is 30 minutes. And making decisions depends on what decisions are to be made. Is there no objection? I am voting on the proposal to approve the rules for consideration of the issues proposed for the extraordinary meeting. Please vote. [[10:19:09]] For 374 Decision taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 134, “Timoshenko Yulia Block” – 155, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” – 39, Communist faction – 27, “Litvina Block” – 19. Dear colleagues, before you go to your consideration of the matter, allow me to address you with one suggestion-warning. We should not allow public communication to take place right now. The state isn't in charge anyway. We need to address this issue exclusively in the professional plane. Let's get to work. Ivan Grigorovitch Kirilenko, 10 minutes as initiators of an extraordinary meeting. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u24	Dear Head, colleagues, distinguished voters! In recent months, the Supreme Council has repeatedly called attention to the activities of the National Bank in draft laws, regulations, speeches by national deputies, and factions. Finally, in view of the extremely negative trends in the banking sphere, on December 18, 416 national deputies voted in favour of the establishment of the interim commission of inquiry on these issues, and on December 26, by an absolute majority, in 380 votes, the Parliament supported a decree that clearly stated: to express its mistrust to the Head and the Government of the National Bank of Ukraine and to appeal to the President without delay to apply for the release of Stelmaq from his post of head. Whether there has been any reaction to this particular decision is well known. Not enough, the President himself has repeatedly stressed the responsibility of the very leadership of the NBA for the Wakhanalia course, demanded that the ratio of the bracelet to the dollar to the economically sound parameters – five and six bracelets per dollar, and on December 18, when the exchange rate has fallen to almost ten, he openly called it speculation and demanded that Nazbank be found and punished by the guilty in a 10-day term. It's been three times in ten days, and the result is zero. Why? But because you had to start with yourself, from the central banking institution. Meanwhile, a new, far - off year began. And from the early days, it became clear that the unpredictability, unpredictability and opacity of the NBA's monetary and credit policies had affected virtually the whole country. In fact, savings of the population were doubly undervalued. Without credit, businesses stop, and unemployment increases. There have been voices of government responsibility for these processes, although everyone knows well that the Cabinet of Ministers is not allowed to interfere with the activities of the main banking institution. However, by the 2009 State Budget Act, the Supreme Council in article 86 clearly obliged both the government and Nazibank to reconcile their actions in the financial market, especially in such an important area as refinancing. The reaction did not make him wait long. The NBU’s management publicly refused to comply with this provision of the law. The financial and exchange rate of the fever continued. On January 14th, after hearing the TSC report on the facts of very unseemly things, Parliament again decided by 372 votes to re-apply to the President with a proposal for a fundamental solution of personnel issues. It's been almost two weeks. The answer lies in the bloodless economy, the investors, the lenders, the society, the small business, the medium business, and the management of the NBA during this most responsible period of vacation. Course chaos in the heat. And government money is cynically distributed in clearly questionable directions. Yes, colleagues, that's our fault. In due time, we have delegated to Nazbank such independence as is not available in any country of the world. As a result, he makes his own judgment his own purpose, regardless of what the Supreme Council or the government thinks. This is because according to the same law, article 51, Nazibank is accountable to Parliament. As the real practice of doing so has shown, it is unaccountable to anyone. Therefore, our first principled question is to be addressed to colleagues in the hall. We will continue to tolerate this state in a state that arbitrarily treats laws, undermining not only the financial foundations of the country but also national security? The right bill, and more than one, has been in the Council for a month. Are we still going to block it or are we going to look at it and accept it and intervene on a reasonable basis? The second is the global question. How will the national economy be credited in the new year? What will be the cost of credits and their volume, and what will be the rate? As destructive as now, as normal, as economically justified, and when? Why do the European Unions in the United States, in order to boost the production of the central bank, reduce accounting rates to a minimum of less than one percent and even zero percent? On the other hand, Nazbank insists on pursuing a policy of expensive ones, which means that money is not available. Main slogan: the price of the loan is higher than the level of inflation. This is not for the vast majority of businesses that are already 70 percent accustomed to solving their current needs and completing their circulation costs at the expense of bank loans. Today, the source is almost dry. With it, millions of jobs, wages, budget payments can inevitably be cut off. So what will be the priority in this respect in the regulator's activities — the fight for expensive money, that is, radically collapsing lending, or with the government looking for all the real possibilities to stimulate the development of domestic production? January ends and no answer. And here's the third, special question. A few weeks later, spring-field jobs. The villagers need to be processed and planted about 20 million hectares. And the problem is, will there be a land with bread or not? So far, fuel security -- zero, protection -- zero, mineral fertilizer -- 12 percent of the need. Of the minimally needed six billion dollars of credit resources, zero, of the four billion dollars that are to be prolonged, has been extended to a little more than 10 percent of the contracts. Conclusion: Agrarian sector in the financial blockade. This has never happened in a year. Whom should I be responsible for this? Don't they know in Nitzbank that with the total lending of five or six billion dollars, by the second half of the year, five billion dollars from the export of grain, oil, and rape will reach the state? It's not even about money, it's about being patriots, of course, not about your own wallet, but about countries. Because it's ridiculous, for months now, there's no clear answer to the fourth question -- and where did more than 40 billion bracelets released by the regulator go, in principle, to serve GDP, that is, to produce? Whether they've been given specific areas, individual enterprises, or what's called in the world, is under targeted programs. In the United States, in the countries of Europe, Russia and Kazakhstan, this is exactly what they do: they have strict control over all these fairly sensitive resources. In fact, they go primarily to manufacturing, where there are guarantees of implementation. That is, it's bound money. Where's the inflation? Why did we not have these funds directed towards completion, contractual orders for the construction of airplanes, ships, support for the export of grain, fertilizers, and oil? Experts, experts, analysts, members of the TSC have clearly established that money went to currency speculations that essentially destroy the bracelet that we were so proud of. Why did this happen? Who's in favor, because they're state funds. Who are you, colleagues? A strict and just regulator, or a primitive sponsor of a highly questionable charity? Why was money given only to nearby, beloved banks? In particular, under the special support of Nazbank, despite the protests of the bankers themselves, it directs the lion's share of such funds, about 10 billion, to the Nadra Bank and continues to finance it. From that huge cost, even a penny went to credit the APK, the machine building? It's no use asking. Fifth. In spite of the constant demands of the world’s financial institutions, why does the regulator continue to manipulate three different courses in a transparent manner: the official, market and exchange rate of intervention, allowing some to make good money on these envelopes? How could it be in a country that has achieved market-economy status with such difficulties? Oh, yeah. Why did the management of the NBA suddenly cease to be concerned about the issue of currency flight from the country as a result of the banally simple import operations? They themselves have seen and understood, there will be trouble. A decision was taken that had been taken to eliminate the abuse, and it had been annulled in the month of January 9. It was so quickly decided, and they all became white and plump. Sadly, experts say the opposite. The problem is all the more so that we really have a problem with import. All companies, companies, corporations that take drugs, rice, citrus, tea, and household appliances to Ukraine, gas insurance their foreign exchange risks, with twice the price, three times the price, and more. To find out, do not wait for statistics, but go to the nearest pharmacy, and find the courage to listen to our disadvantaged pensioners. And for this inflation tied to the dollar, who should be responsible? And the last. The question that some 20 million of our fellow countrymen have asked, that 300 billion of their blood money actually created our banking system, gave it the opportunity to grow with good fat, and today, twice as much as the poor, suffered as poor relatives, because even on the threshold of the banks, they were not released. There's already been a massive one-way review of the unilateral order of credit agreements, translation into the citizens of the exchange rate difference, banning no longer the time-limit, but also the time-consuming return of savings, and so on and so forth. And what about the lost trust of the main investor of our banking system, his magnificence as a small Ukrainian contributor? Is that what anyone thinks? It is said that more than 20 years ago, at the dawn of its loud banking career, the monetary ideologist Alan Greene. said: “As the chief banker, I have learned to speak incoherently, and if I prove to be too understanding, then you have misunderstood me.” A wise financier, when he smelled fried, and a liberal economy began to crack its seams, left on time because there were other lives and realities in the yard, entirely different fastings and approaches, based on transparency, openness to society, predictability of financial policy and its noses. That's why there's a crisis, but there's no pessimism. People know and trust everything. Our banking system and its chief regulator on these criteria are, unfortunately, on almost the last city in the world. Is that where all the problems and suspicions come from? Maybe you're doing everything right, then prove it to the people, be as open and public as in the entire civilized world, you'll probably realize that everything you do is a unique Ukrainian know-how, and not the other way around, unfortunately, what it looks like today. But no matter what anyone says, it's a time of quiet life.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u25	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u26	But the honourable fellows, whoever speaks, and the time of quiet life, the inconceivable murmuring of nothing and the distracting of topics has long ended, the time has come for radical change, the new extraordinary approaches and breakthroughs and, of course, the systemic, coordinated, complex actions of all. The idea of numerical experts, analysts and a two-time solution to almost all of Parliament's composition in this respect is that other people should do it. All that remains is to convince the President that he is responsible for the final decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u27	Dear colleagues, a word for the report is given to the Acting Head of the National Bank of Ukraine, Anatoly Vasilovich Shapovalov. Please, Anatoly Vasilovich, 20 minutes. The reporter asks for 25 minutes. We've already voted. Come on, we'll figure it out. Please. It has to be, we add.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u28	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, present! First of all, the National Bank of Ukraine has been working in very difficult conditions for the past few months: the economy of Ukraine is in a state of crisis, and it can't help but be reflected in the monetary and credit sector, which is part of the economy and the direct movement of goods and services in it. However, less than a crisis in the activities of the National Bank of Ukraine, subjective factors have affected. All this time, the National Bank of Ukraine is under pressure from the press of cynical, offensive and unfounded accusations, including those of the Prime Minister of Ukraine. It would be half-breedy if these streams of dirt were only to corrupt the nerve cells of the National Bank’s leaders and employees, all the more so that none of these charges are substantiated by actual facts. But what's more, all of this directly affects the stability of the banking system, because it increases society's negative expectations and causes new waves of bank outflows. We must note that, after the slanderous statements of the Prime Minister, the pace of the flow of deposits in the banking system in Ukraine was accelerated again in January, while in December we were able to significantly slow this process down. And you, honourable deputies, well know that money loves peace and that no bank that is reliable can stand if the vast majority of investors suddenly want to respond to their deposits. There can be no reference to the active lending activity of banks during a period of panic on the part of investors, and this is when the economy now needs more than ever credit resources to come out of the crisis and restore growth rates. I would like to point out that even in such an unhealthy atmosphere, the National Bank of Ukraine is performing and will continue to perform its functions. In its activities, the National Bank of Ukraine is governed by purely valid legislation and makes everything dependent on it to ensure the stability of the financial unit and the support of the banking system. Despite all the objective and subjective difficulties, the banking system continues to provide economic accounts and to provide credit support to the extent possible. Now let me take a closer look at the essence of the processes that are currently being seen in the economy and in the monetary and credit market. I would like to stress in particular that the crisis in Ukraine is, above all, economic and only financial. If in the world economy, crises were first born in the financial sphere and only then found reflections in the real economy, then in Ukraine everything was exactly the opposite. Conducting economic policy on the basis of social populism, delaying the necessary structural reforms in the economy, preserving an inefficient tax system, reckless fiscal policy -- these are the main reasons for creating macroeconomic imbalances and building up crisis potential. Much of consumption was stimulated to stimulate investment in production, which inevitably led to an accelerated deterioration in the country’s external position. For a long time, Ukraine has consumed more external goods and services than it has sold. If the current balance of payments balance was positive in 2004 and it was $6.9 billion, it was negative $12.3 billion in 2008. In order to finance such an external deficit, large amounts were borrowed from external markets. This led to an accelerated accumulation of Ukraine’s external debt, already over $100 billion. The vast amount of external private borrowing was used in very ineffective ways. Investment policy priorities and incentives have never been defined by the government. And as a result, instead of channelling the resources received for investment purposes, for the development of new ones and for the improvement of existing productions, a large part of the funds received in debt have been consumed in an elementary way. Under the conditions of over-socialization of economic policy, a substantial amount of such funds was borrowed from the population, which, in the context of a deficit in quality domestic goods, directed them to the purchase of goods and cars for imports. Clearly, such a state of affairs could not have lasted indefinitely, for sooner or later debt would have to be paid, but in fact nothing had been done to reduce the external vulnerability of the economy. In recent years, economic policy has not changed significantly. Regrettably, there was no political force in the country under the conditions of permanent economic crisis and constant electoral campaigns that could take responsibility for unpopular measures. Thus, the global financial crisis has only become a catalyst for exacerbating the negative processes that have accumulated over time in our economy. The situation was also complicated by the fact that the basic principles of the functioning of the market economy, including proper protection of private property, had not yet been properly formed in Ukraine. The very inability of the State to adequately protect private property from illegal trespassing has in fact triggered an upheaval that has materialized internal and external risks to real threats to the economy and the financial market. After all, the beginning of the unfavourable changes in the financial market was launched by a raid on Prominestbank, which led to the increase of investor mistrust in the banking system as a whole and the flow of funds from banks. Thanks to the actions of the National Bank of Ukraine, Prominestbank was able to save itself from bankruptcy, but it was not possible to stop the negative processes that began to spread in the financial market. The state of the monetary market, in particular the value of the monetary unit, depends directly on the signs of the real economy, not on the other hand, if anyone did not want to. Because of the pressure from fundamental factors, the National Bank, through the use of basic mechanisms and tools, can only temporarily keep national money from being devalued. The longer efforts are made to maintain the value of money, the more imbalances arise in the economy, and the more painful is the further adjustment of the value of money to an equilibrium level. I want to firmly drop the charges against the National Bank for its inaction. Realizing that solutions to the vast majority of fundamental issues are beyond the capacity of the central bank, the National Bank has repeatedly paid attention to the various levels of internal, external risks that have steadily increased and threatened the stability of the economy and the money source. These questions were also found and reflected in information on the state of the monetary and credit market, which is provided twice a year to the Supreme Council in accordance with Article 51 of the National Bank of Ukraine Act. Regrettably, for a variety of reasons, economic laws were not often adopted in the Supreme Council. And the government budget laws just preserved that vector of economic policy that actually led to the situation that we have today. Even during a period of crisis, only a few anti - crisis laws were passed within three months, and those very unbalanced and in conflict with other valid laws. As a result, they do not have the ability to achieve the noble goals that their developers set for themselves. The State Budget Act of Ukraine for 2009 not only did not answer the urgent issues of economic development, but it made it significantly more difficult for the National Bank to perform its primary constitutional function to ensure the stability of the monetary unit. For its part, to the extent possible, the national bank tried to take steps to level external risks. In particular, the National Bank has increased. the regulatory activities of banks by encouraging banks to enter into agreements in national currency and to be more considerate in risk management. Expanded banks' capacity to maintain their liquidity, even under inflationary pressure, the size of the National Bank's refinancing operations exceeded the size of the mobilization operations. He pursued an adequate percentage policy aimed at stimulating people’s savings, raising foreign reserves, which in the future took advantage of allowing demand and supply for foreign currency to be balanced during the period of tightening. In January/August 2008 alone, the National Bank purchased $6.5 billion in reserves. By the beginning of October, the banking system had a rather large supply of liquidity. The amount of liquid assets of banks was twice what they needed to carry out current activities. However, no banking system can remain stable under the artificially provoked mistrust of investors who have begun to massively withdraw funds from their accounts. Since October last year, the population and legal persons have eliminated nearly 60 billion dollars from the banking system. In addition, the budget and non-budgetary funds in the banking system were reduced by nearly $5 billion. At the same time, there has been a significant narrowing of access to external resources due to an international financial crisis, and domestic enterprises have been unable to compete with foreign producers in a decent way, leading to foreign currency deficits in the internal market. The situation also deteriorated because of the decline in Ukraine’s sovereign credit ratings. The decline in ratings began long before October and was due to considerable inflationary pressure, which was based on budgetary imbalances associated with excessive social commitments by the State. As a result, pressure on the exchange rate of the currency Only the population, starting in October, bought foreign currency at $8.3 billion. In 2008, the official exchange rate for the dollar was down by 52.5 percent. In contrast, Ukrainian bracelets are not exceptions to rules. In addition to Ukraine, the substantial devaluation of national currencies took place in more than twenty developed countries and developing countries. In particular, in 2008 and 22 days 2009, the devaluation of the English pound to the dollar amounted to 45.3 percent, the Russian ruble 33.1 percent, the Polish gold 35.8 percent, the Turkish lira 41 percent, and the Icelandic krone 268 percent. As of January 22, 2009 there was a substantial devaluation to the dollar of the euro by 7.2 percent, the English pound by 6.2, the Icelandic krona by 7.2, the Turkish lira by 7, the Russian ruble by 11.1, the Polish zloty by 13.6%. In order to ensure the stability of Ukraine’s banking system, the National Bank has implemented additional measures for banks’ activities aimed at ensuring the proper level of liquidity of banks, stabilizing their financial situation, preventing the outflow of customers from the banking system, making payments, balancing demand and offerings to foreign currency, and so on. In order to increase investor confidence in the banking system, the National Bank, in accordance with the decisions adopted, hid one billion dollars to replenish the fund to guarantee the contribution of natural persons, allowing the maximum amount of compensation to be increased to 150,000 dollars. To maintain bank liquidity, the National Bank has provided banks with a total of about 105 billion dollars, including overwhelm loans of 43 billion. The provision of refinancing loans to banks in the context of the outflow of deposits and the increased demand of foreign currency customers contributed to the timely execution of commitments to ensure the maintenance of the banking system. The National Bank completely rejects the charges of preferential treatment of individual banks in the granting of refinancing loans. Starting in October, credit refinancing was granted to 135 banks. As of January 1, 2009, 97 banks had a debt of 60.5 billion dollars for refinancing loans, 38 percent of them being government banks, although their share of the total assets of banks is only 11.5 percent. In doing so, they account for only two percent of the total bank outflows during the crisis. The available surplus from the credit refinancing bank is practically equivalent to the amount of bank outflows. Credit refinancing was granted to banks using transparent procedures, based on the regulation of the National Bank of Bank Liquidity, which was registered with the Ministry of Justice and provides for a level playing field for all banks. The National Bank also used additional mechanisms to refinance banks in the period of the most acute situation in October and November, which included a broad list of possible mortgages and a more rapid decision-making procedure, since at that time it was important to prevent the collapse of the banking system every minute. The amount of refinancing loans to support the liquidity of a bank under these procedures has been assigned to account for information provided to banks about the amount of money outflows, negative credit dynamics, and so on. Taking the procurator's position in assessing the implementation of the National Bank's refinancing of banks, the government, at the same time, did nothing for itself to ensure the stability of the banking system, at a time when in the entire civilized world governments were the main contributors to bank rescue programmes. These programs provide for significant budget allocations for the recapitalisation of banks as well as for the redemption of specialised state banks or banks’ negative assets. This is all done to clear the balance sheets of banks from the burden of negative assets and to enable banks to restore lending to the economy, because without it it is impossible to talk about overcoming the recession. Unfortunately, the Ukrainian government does not particularly accept the problems of domestic banks. All the stability problems of the banking system are planned to be solved at the expense of the emission and no one is interested in what the inflation and devaluation effects should be. Instead of helping to solve the urgent problems, the Prime Minister's consciously destructive statements about individual banks make the situation more difficult. In the face of a worsening financial crisis, the National Bank of Ukraine is concerned about the state of the banking system and individual banks and has decided to carry out, with the participation of an audit company, a diagnostic examination of banks with the aim of studying their current and prospective payability and viability under such conditions. So far, the first phase of this work has been completed, and the first group banks have been examined, 17 banks with 66 percent of active banking operations. The amount of decapitization required has been determined, and intensive dialogue has begun with owners and bank management regarding the results of the diagnostics, the situation in banks and the future prospects for their activities. According to previous results, only a few banks may need State participation in their capitalization. As far as exchange rate policy is concerned. At the same time, as of today, no bank has been bankrupted in Ukraine, even in the economically developed countries of the world, and in particular, more than 100 banks have ceased to operate in Russia. As far as exchange rate policy is concerned. First, in October, the bank sold $11 billion to support the exchange rate. This allowed not only to balance demand and supply in the foreign exchange market but also to ensure that the resident’s obligations to nonresidents, including the payment and servicing of external loans, were not met. At the same time, this did not fully reduce the rate of currency devaluation, as the effect of the National Bank’s interventions was largely offset by destructive statements by the authorities about the currency market situation, which formed devaluation expectations and fuelled substantial demand for foreign currency. Naturally, the conditions of the heavy devaluation pressure of the bracelet have been reduced. In theory, the National Bank could, for some time in the face of market trends, ensure the stability of the exchange rate to, at a cross-border level, but in the absence of effective measures to balance the situation at a macroeconomic level, such policies would only accelerate the decline in international reserves in Ukraine to be equal, which would not allow even critical payments in foreign currency to be made in a timely manner, with the depth of the decline in the exchange rate thereafter being more dramatic, and the effects on the economy would be even more dramatic. We understand that the lowering of the course has resulted in the loss of a large part of the population and of the landowners. It must be understood, however, that this is the price that Ukraine pays for adventurous economic policies that have led to lower incentives for work and plunged the country into a debt pit in front of the outside world. We also need to understand that, on the other hand, the reduction in the rate of the bracelet that took place will allow for the depreciation of external shocks for the economy of Ukraine and align the country's external position. According to November, there was some improvement in Ukraine’s balance of payments dynamics. The national currency exchange rate is actually an indicator that reflects the overall efficiency of the economy. Blaming a course in economic development is like blaming a patient for a thermometer. From this point of view, the National Bank of Ukraine cannot agree that the Prime Minister of Ukraine is constantly trying to keep the government from being responsible for the stability of the currency exchange rate. Without taking responsibility, I would like to ask the honourable officials, unless the national bank was responsible for the failure of Ukraine to properly manage it by gathering a record crop. The ban on grain exports, on the one hand, did not significantly improve the situation of prices in the internal market, and on the other hand it did not allow for an increase in monetary revenues to the country that would be at an opportunity during the devaluation period. The same applies to the introduction of a quota for oil exports, which Ukraine produces seven times as much as it consumes. We just lost the market outside. And you have heard our government and the initiators of this hearing take care of the village in words. What are they doing? Is the National Bank responsible for the fact that, during the period of the historic increase in world prices for the production of the major export sectors of Ukraine, the profits received were not focused on investment, modernisation and energy conservation, which would allow for greater competitiveness of our producers and would not allow for a dramatic decline in production during a crisis in the world market? Is the National Bank responsible for the fact that during the period above Ukraine’s favourable external environment, a stable fund was never created that would now allow for a significant depreciation of the impact of external shocks. And there were opportunities for that. And it's not just tax-accumulated profits from exporters. Just mention how the huge funds received from the ‘Criminal’ reprivatisation were used for free. Also, there's nothing to hear about a stable fund.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u29	Give me a chance. We agreed, dear colleagues. Five minutes. We agreed that we should discuss the matter seriously. Please don't get involved in politics. All of it. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u30	Also, there was nothing to be heard about the stability fund, which is designed by what is called the anticrisis law. It is not surprising, for there are no real sources of filling. And it's already been three months, and if they do, they won't be used, because the use order is not agreed with the committees, both fiscal and banking. Is the National Bank responsible for the fact that the government was already in the first half of the year when the world’s financial markets were favourable by implementing the world’s financial markets. The show, and after paying huge sums to foreign bank agents, was never able to raise funds to finance the budget deficit. In the end, when the money received from the previous government ended, all problems began to be solved through the use of the National Bank’s international reserves. Of course, the national needs for the National Bank are the highest priority, but for the sum of monetary losses, government spending is automatically reduced by Nazbank's ability to intervene in support of the exchange rate of the currency. Is the National Bank guilty that the government cannot properly manage those funds that are already allocated under fairly favourable conditions by international financial institutions? In particular, the World Bank has allocated $150 million to Ukraine for 20 years to support small businesses in rural areas. But now this project is under threat of closure because the Ministry of Finance can't call using these funds, and as our government cares about medium and small business, it's what we hear every day from the screens, and what in fact. Is the National Bank guilty of not yet developing a stock market in Ukraine, which significantly reduces the efficiency of the redistribution processes in the economy and motivates businesses to invest abroad risks themselves to foreign exchange risks. Is the National Bank responsible for the state guarantees and government mortgages of 1 billion and remaining on paper for 2008 and not for the financing of construction projects, so each Sunday the Prime Minister’s report on how he wants to help the builders. Is the National Bank to blame that individual state-owned enterprises do not align their exit to the foreign exchange market with the large volumes of foreign exchange purchases by destabilizing the situation on it, as Naftogaz did on Friday. In the end, is the National Bank guilty that Ukraine has failed to solve gas problems in time. Calm down! Calm down!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u31	Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u32	The National Bank ensures the fulfilment of all commitments made and signed by the government, the National Bank, and the President of the International Monetary Fund. And that was a good sign for investors to see that the situation in Ukraine, despite difficulties, could be rectified. All the mentioned issues that have already had a significant impact on the course of the bracelets and can affect the near future are the direct competence of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and personally the Prime Minister of Ukraine. They should be responsible for this and not try to translate their own calculations and non-professionalism into the National Bank of Ukraine. I would like to point out that the National Bank of Ukraine is far from being able to settle down into the billing process. Despite images and slanders and statements by the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the National Bank has always supported and will support the government in matters relating to national security.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u33	Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u34	Yes, the National Bank of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u35	Dear colleagues, we agreed to add five minutes to the schedule. But I'm asking the reporter to report on the activities of the National Bank, not to go into politics.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u36	Okay. Yes, the National Bank supported the government during the period. Nazbank was not on the sidelines, the National Bank supported the government during a gas conflict with Russia, playing a major role in securing the 2008 gas bills. The National Bank supported the government when the threat arose. the default on the liabilities of the “Kravtodor”. The National Bank has also established its shoulders to provide internal solutions and pensions that were provided in January only through excess of the National Bank’s income. And it's cynical to say that we can still increase some social benefits for people this year when there's no funds, there's a deficit in the Pension Fund. And we'll see how the government works. To be completed.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u37	Thank you. Report completed. All of it. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I've repeatedly asked the reporter: let's not get involved in politics and say that the National Bank is doing the service, we have to do one state thing. Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u38	I want to thank you and note that the National Bank will continue to carry out its constitutional responsibility for ensuring the stability of the bracelet. The more detailed position of Nazbank is presented in an analytical report that we are preparing for today's meeting. To perform its functions, the National Bank is willing to cooperate with all branches of government, but such cooperation must be based solely on the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u39	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the report is complete, please pay attention. Sign up for a question to the reporter, Anatoly Vasilovich Sapovalov. Please sign up. Yes, I'd like you to put on the board the name of the national MPs who signed up for the question. People's deputy Ivanenko, faction of Yulia Timoshenko, please. One minute, one minute. Follow the rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u40	Please pass the word to Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u41	Ivan Kirilenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u42	Dear Sir, the Head of the National Bank! Of course, it was sad to hear your talk, which was filled with politics. And we have not heard any specific answer to any specific question. It's very sad. The report was not written to you in a banking institution, unfortunately. The report is purely political. How could you read things by breaking the word that the government is guilty of huge external borrowings and debts? You know very well that Ukraine's government debt is small compared to the corporate debt you've allowed here. Foreign banks, they've accumulated a huge corporate debt! And you're responsible for this, that 40 billion should be given to the country this year. Government debt is cashier! You broke every word because you didn't get a report from the bank! You've done nothing. You humiliated yourself and humiliated yourself with your speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u43	May I have your attention, please? Can I have your attention, please? Please be able to answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u44	What Is the Answer?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u45	People's MP, Jojik, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u46	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People’s Party. Dear Anatoly Vasilovich! Today we are witnessing the unprecedented destabilisation of the national monetary unit. By objectively evaluating, this is evidently the result of some calculations both by today’s government and by previous governments. But it still can't handle any criticism of the National Bank's activities. The actions of the National Bank in recent months are a conscious development of the economic situation in Ukraine, the result of which we will continue to observe for a long time. The state of affairs for today has twice been mistrusted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. No political power, no official in Ukraine takes responsibility for the activities of the National Bank. Do you not consider this situation to remove these signs of serious destabilization and not to continue?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u47	Give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u48	Do you not feel that this situation is personal, as do the other heads of the National Bank personally do — resign. After all, until you're in charge of the National Bank.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u49	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u50	Thank you, Mr. People's Deputy. I'm not going to retire. I gave this case 35 years. And I think all actions are professional. If it were a crisis in Ukraine and it would be normal in the whole world, then you could make those accusations. But I was giving you examples. And in the Russia that you love so much, and you'll see what ends up as it moves, and in other developed countries, in Britain. This is a world crisis that was not 100 years old. And so we're all hearings before, behind and so on, they're just destabilizing the situation. And the Central Bank is doing everything to ensure the normal functioning of the banking system. Because the bank, as you can't understand, is taking money from each other and giving it to the other. He's a financial intermediary. And if we're saying that we have to protect the creditor first, not the debtor. And to do that, all branches of government have to work together, not tell that there is no government attitude. He says the budget isn't full of money.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u51	Yes, dear fellows, come on, I'm asking for your attention. I address and make a warning, Anatoly Vasilovich Shapovalov, not to give an assessment of the national MP he loves, is his business. You have come to report to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and report. Because the tail won't spin with the dog. Sergey Shevchuk, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u52	I don't want to ask questions. I want to express my indignation that the horror is simply that such people are leading, as we have learned, the National Bank. And I'd like to say a word to Yuri Prokopchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u53	Yuri Prokopchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u54	Yuri Prokopchuk, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. You know, really, this guy came here not to be responsible for his inaction, but to teach the Supreme Council and all the people of Ukraine what to do. So, if you please, when, to what banks, what loan amounts have been allocated? Why was 10 billion allocated to the “Nadra” bank of Firtaša voted on by you and not to the “Saved” bank, for example? How many gold reserves do we have today? And when will you stop stealing from Ukraine?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u55	I also ask Yuri Prokopchuk to adhere to ethics, not to use degrading words. Let's demonstrate the upbringing of all of us. Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u56	Ladies and gentlemen, you seem to have listened to my report. I said 135 banks have been refinanced. As far as the bank “Nadra” is concerned. The Nadra Bank received, it accounts for 4.3 percent of Ukraine’s banking system. It's a system bank. And today there are 10 billion people in this bank. So, Your Honor, the government appealed to the court and banned the National Bank from lending to the bank. And so he took full responsibility for himself. Because this bank gives 1.6 million people a salary, a pension. So far, there are nine billion more deposits. You can imagine what the situation will be if this bank goes bankrupt tomorrow. Who Will Take Responsibility? The government or the court that made the decision? As for transparency, we had to listen carefully. I said 135 banks have been refinanced, and Nadra Bank, including. As for the gold reserves. They're now 30 billion. In 2008, the total decrease was 2.8 percent. Although in our Russian neighbors, where they say it's good, it's 11.3 percent. The International Monetary Fund Commission, which checked the operation before providing the tranche, confirmed that there was no problem in those banks where the funds of the gold reserves were placed.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u57	National MP Gacco, faction of the Yuli bloc of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u58	Please give the floor to the deputy of Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u59	Pavlovski’s microphone, the faction “Bloka ulija Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u60	I'd like to ask. I don't ask where the money is anymore, I want to ask, "Where's Stellam?" That's the first question. The other one. Why does the government of the National Bank, with such stupid stubbornness, provide assistance, refinancing of the Nadra Bank itself? Isn't that why our President is personally interested in it, and he has personally given you instructions to give these 10 billion Nadra Banks? And tell me what to do. We know that in the banking environment, it's about 5 to 7 percent of this aid going away. I don't think you should report to the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u61	If you know, please give these materials to the investigating authorities in accordance with the legislation, because if you do not provide, you are an accomplice to the crime. And the simple statements that sound. Let's get the facts, okay? And with regard to the support of the Nadra Bank. I told you once again, it's a system bank, it's used by 37,000 companies that have 6 million people, 2 million people have 9 billion, and a million people get 600. 4.8 billion received a pension and a salary. And you will be responsible for the loss of this bank, your political power! And Mr. Stelmam is on vacation, another vacation.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u62	National MP Schmelov, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u63	Schmellow, the Communist faction. Please, Simone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u64	Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko microphone. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u65	Simonenko, the Communist faction. I think that none of the deputies here are sure that the National Bank's activities have made the banking system a mafia system. I'm making a second proposal. As a result of the consideration of this unique report, please contact the Attorney-General's Office and the Security Service to understand that the National Bank has caused enormous damage to Ukraine's national security. [[Applause]] Third. I want the rapporteur, although vaguely responding here, to talk about unique things, to say how the National Bank today disarmed Ukraine when it allowed commercial banks to raise nearly 100 billion dollars in the last three years. So not only did the government's interests come under attack, did the government budget hit? Today, Ukraine faces the default. They're going to sell businesses that are on bail. You don't understand what you really are.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u66	Allow me to finish the questions. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u67	In fact, you are the ones who destroyed the country. And the last. I would like to hear the answer, however, to what programs have you allocated this unique money to the bank, let's say, Nadra? What programs? You've been in operational control, but how many investors did you get? And I can tell you right now, there's a percentage of zero wholes and so many tenths.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u68	And you're responsible for your words?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u69	Yeah. You listen to it all the time.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u70	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u71	Listen, don't start arguing with me. Therefore, I strongly ask you to answer in essence, not your political assessments. I appeal to the Attorney General's Office and the Security Service to show that you are the authorities responsible for ensuring national security and checking.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u72	Thank you. The answer to your questions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u73	First of all, the distinguished Peter Mikolaiovich, to your knowledge, the Attorney General's Office works at the National Bank, works at the National Bank and the National Chamber of Accounts, and the investigating commission of the Supreme Council is working. So be patient, there will be results, and then you will claim specific facts. As far as Nadra Bank is concerned. The Nadra Bank had 10 billion legal and physical resources. The costs given to Nadra Bank are precisely aimed at meeting these requirements.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u74	I'm telling you again that the bank's property is two billion, and the people's costs are 25 billion, and legal persons, you know? As far as borrowing is concerned. The banking sector today has a debt of 38 billion, and the rest is our operators, our government. And they are all fulfilling their obligations today. And it's all these interventions, and it's the return of the default, because the National Bank's interventions have ensured compliance.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u75	Anatoly Vasilovich, question to question. Please tell me, how many investments from Ukraine have gone abroad in the past year, including Cyprus? The sum, please give us two sums.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u76	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, first of all, Cyprus is not an offshore zone. You know he's excluded from the list, he's a European country. That's the first one. Secondly, with regard to the financial account, the country has reached 9.3 billion more than it has.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u77	Please tell me what the amount has gone. Because there is such official statistics that in the last 7 months, 6.2 billion were invested outside the country, 5.8 of them in Cyprus. In a year, what's the amount?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u78	This number is even bigger. But once again, the balance is positive: it went by 9.3 billion more.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u79	National Deputy Pierres, faction of the Yulia Tymoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u80	The People's Deputy of Prederius, the BUT faction. Please pass the word to Terehina Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u81	Teryochina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u82	Anatoly Vasilovich, I just want to remind you that according to OECD, Cyprus is an offshore zone. Yeah, just in case. Now I have a few questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u83	You look at the government's decree.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u84	Is the government guilty that Ukraine is the only country in the world where the central bank has not set clear rules between the terms of foreign exchange lending and the issuance of foreign internal loans? Is the government guilty of gross violation of the Ukrainian Constitution by the NBA when allowing internal currency lending unrelated to external trade? Is it the government's fault that most of the refinancing went to 17 banks and most of the refinancing through the foreign exchange market channel? Please tell me the first “Nadra” tranche, where did he use it? You know. And the government is to blame.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u85	We don't know.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u86	You don't know.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u87	I know that in other words, I am used to meet the demands of investors and external obligations.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u88	Teriochin, acknowledgment, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u89	And unless the government is guilty that when the Head of the National Bank says, everything will be fixed when people take deposits back to the banks, and they accept a totally stupid rule that this ban on early withdrawal extends not only to old deposits, but also to new deposits, and even to deposits from local territorial communities. And unless it's the government's fault.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u90	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u91	Dear Sergey Anatolyevich, first of all, the National Bank did not accept any prohibitions on deposit. On the contrary, the National Bank said that it is necessary to fulfill the obligation within the prescribed time limits, first of all, to let you know. And secondly, about the National Bank and the government's guilt, I stopped in my report.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u92	National Deputy Unguryan, faction of the Timoshenko Yulia Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u93	The Hungarian national deputy Paul, the BUT faction, gives the word Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u94	People's MP Pisarenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u95	Dear colleagues, well, what we're seeing today is a performance not by the head of the National Bank, but by some clown who's come and here trying to tell us what they're doing at the National Bank today. You know, all the political statements today, nobody needs them. You say, you give us the answer: where do you expel tens of billions today, and what do you do with them? You know, everyone today is talking about the composer and singer Vladimir Visock. I want to remind you that he had these words that "the wind should be sitting in prison." And you know, we're going to have enough power and energy to have you and your group at the National Bank in charge of everything that's going on there right now. And I just have a question: tell me, how often do you meet with the President and consult him, what do you do at the National Bank? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u96	Well, first of all, I also want to tell you that there's such a saying that whoever screams, "Hold the thief!" -- it's first of all there's a thief, this time. Secondly, regarding the meeting with the President, they only happen for the student when the President invites. If you take the last time, then basically 3-4 meetings where you were with the heads of the leading banks of Ukraine and also with the participation of the Prime Minister of Ukraine. And we're acting according to the existing legislation and the Constitution and the laws that you're enacting.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u97	Dear colleagues, time is up. Please, Alexander Lavrinovich's question, and we'll move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u98	Dear Anatoly Vasilovich, he listened to your answers to your questions, and I asked four questions of my own right away. Please tell me, from your point of view, whether the National Bank has taken steps in general to involve the free funds of legal and natural persons when. After the start of the financial crisis, and do you think at all only restrictive and banal decisions that can be effective in this situation that we have today? Second question, how do you assess the effectiveness of Nazbank's intervention in the currency market that you've been doing over the last 4-5 months? Question three, please tell me. Have they named the number of reserves, which is the structure of the National Bank's reserves? And the fourth question is, is there a guarantee that they're all alive? Have they not already burned with a bright flame or part of it in the midst of a financial crisis far beyond our homeland? If you could just ask me these questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u99	Well, as far as I'm concerned. Thank you for asking. With regard to the involvement of deposits from legal and natural persons, you know that according to the law, the National Bank only works with banks, and with natural persons it does not work with legal persons. And the National Bank used both lending interventions and fund-raising during different periods. And especially when the situation started to stabilize, some banks that had surplus resources were buying Central Bank certificates. As for the intervention of the National Bank, I've already said in my report that they're 10 billion, and these are interventions that have just allowed people to stop this panic, because there's no economically sound standards for this devaluation, but there's panic. And in a period of panic, you know, I've been giving an example that if the population bought 2.7 billion more currencies in nine months than it sold, only in the last three months the population bought 3.9 billion more than it sold. In total, over a year, the population bought $6.6 billion more than they sold the currency. As far as the National Bank's reserves are concerned. I reiterate that their structure is diversified into different currencies: dollars, euros, pounds, francs, gold. And they're in good shape because they're in reliable banks. And secondly, if these reserves were blocked or used somewhere, we wouldn't be able to intervene for 10 billion, we couldn't pay a billion and a half per day for Russian gas. And once again, I want to confirm that the International Monetary Fund Commission has provided an official audit, where it is recorded that the reserves are fully stocked and reliable. And any audit or commission of inquiry, the prosecution, the Court of Auditors, can make sure of that.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u100	Yes. Anatoly Vasilovich, thank you. Please have a seat. Time's up. The chairman of the Committee on Finance and Banking of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Mikola Janović Azarov, is invited to attend. May I have your attention, Your Honor?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u101	Regrettably, the level of debate that has taken place in this Hall does not, in general, allow for a professional approach to the evaluation of the activities of the Government and the National Bank, because it is impossible to remove monetary policies and tear them apart in part. So I decided to step back a little bit from the professional report that the Committee had prepared. And say a few opening words. Imagine that tomorrow, instead of Stelmah, there will be, for example, Tigypto or, for example, Dusty. Or any other last name we can name right now. Do we have a change in the government budget? All of a sudden, where's 85 billion bracelets coming from? It's the hole that's already in the State budget. Could we have about 25 billion, a hole, local budgets, close immediately? We may have a five-to-five currency reserve immediately, and we can return, as the Prime Minister says, to level six? Is it possible that the oilgas from bankruptcy will turn into a well-functioning enterprise? Perhaps a miracle will arise and demand will arise and prices will rise for our main exports and the negative balance of payments will change? Why do we, the people's deputies who have the heavy responsibility at this time of crisis, allow such a serious problem to be reduced to the level of market charges? Money is our price in this situation! Regrettably, the National Bank and the Government conducted a completely flawed policy this year, and they had a honeymoon when they, together with inflation, revalued the bracelet. We have repeatedly warned the National Bank and the Government about this, the Committee. No conclusions were drawn at all. In July, we stated that the Party of the Regions, that the mortgage construction had virtually ceased, had not yet reduced the volume of construction work, had not reduced absolutely any crises on our horizon. But measures had to be taken urgently, the Government and the National Bank had to change policies, the Government had kept money in the treasury account, and the National Bank had restricted the lending of the national economy. All of this together has led to the severe collapse of our economy today. That's the reason for these crises. Now let's talk chronologically. In September, there were crises in our largest Prominnvestbank system. This is where the Government of the National Bank would sit down and immediately develop a bank recovery programme. Everything would have been relieved, obviously. However, this has not been done, panic has been spread in the country, deposits have been withdrawn immediately and the Government and the National Bank have been completely chaotic. Anatoli Vasiljevic said at the end that why the National Bank had suddenly become available at the end of December and had accounted for almost 20 billion unsecured money from two government banks. Who gave that right to the National Bank? Only as a result of such actions has the Government been able to calculate the gas with Russia. But we will have long and long to calculate for this issue. Now, he also told me how the pensions were paid in January. Only by means of a printing press, so-called excess of income over the costs of the National Bank. Now that the time has come to respond, the Government and the National Bank are reading each other “bite” and are beginning to exchange mutual accusations rather than sit down and point out, as we have repeatedly said, a real anti-crisis programme. Once again, Shapovalov said that the National Bank was being held to the point, he was scrupulously implementing the memorandum. He just forgot to clarify, and what kind of memo was that? And the one we supported here in the hall, we didn't vote for him, you voted! And the course that has now been established is the result of the implementation by the Government and the National Bank of this memorandum, Ivan Grigorjevic! So, first of all, look at your actions! But let's talk and get back to professional conversation. The problem is indeed the most serious one. Take European countries. Find me at least one country in the midst of the crisis in the midst of currency devaluation raised the question of the resignation of the President of the National Bank, show me such a country. Once again, Ukraine is once again on record. The European Bank, the main banks, have reduced the accounting rates to zero. Massive resources and trillions are being invested in the economy, and all of this, unfortunately, cannot give a positive signal to the national economies. You and I haven't put any bracelets into the national economy. With regard to anger announcements in machinations and so on. Let's be specific, we have a prosecutor's office, we have an HSS, we have law enforcement agencies, we have materials, please, on the table. The materials on the table and we will decide on these materials, end the voting charges. [[Applause]] Now, let's talk professionally, and then, my dears, otherwise, if the whole discussion was political at first. I would also have to be like the Shapowalovs to come out and try, you wouldn't have listened to me and nobody would have listened to me, so I started off on my own, and I focused and focused on the sharp issues. Now it's professional. I'm going to go to the national language, because I've been prepared for the national language, the national language.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, let's have some mutual respect.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u103	2008 became the year when the National Bank and the government, in the performance of their core functions, brought only one function — the fight against inflation. The result in the first half of the year was a significant reduction in the fluidity of the financial system and the revaluation of the bracelet to a record low of 4.5 dollars per dollar. This policy has led to the limitation of the monetary lending of the economy and the population. These directions were noted by consumer currency lending, which, in the light of government policy, simulated cheap imports only made the financial system more difficult. In January-August alone, currency loans were issued for 66 billion grevens, and what was interesting at the time was the silence of the government, and we have repeatedly paid attention to this. Starting in October, the crisis in the economy and the financial sector reached a critical level and came out in the form of a negative information background and an increasing mistrust of the financial system, investors began to massively withdraw funds from their accounts and banks stopped lending to each other. This was in the face of a substantial decline in deposits that have long served as the basis for lending. On January 1, 2009, the rate of stockpiling at the beginning of the year was more than twelve times lower than that of the previous year. This has to do with growing mistrust in the banking system as a result of the anti - inflationary actions of the NBA and the government. Non-professional activities have also resulted in the suspension of deposit to depositors, the reduction in exports and industrial production, the limitation of the company’s circulation costs, and other economic crises. And starting in mid - September, an increase in the dollar to the bracelet began. In a crisis situation, Nazbank was able to do nothing better than issue a famous decree prohibiting commercial banks from returning their deposits and increasing their loan portfolios in a timely manner. Inaction in the currency market caused a further avalanche-like decline in the currency exchange rate to the dollar, which led to a series of economic crises. Among them is the increase in credit pressure on legal and physical persons issued in foreign currency. Yes, during the fourth quarter, at a de facto stop, the debt owed to the banking system only increased by nearly $143 billion, a third of the liabilities, and the ratio of deposits and loans fell from 65.6 percent by the end of 2007 to 48.8 by the end of 2008. In doing so, the U.S. dollar’s monetary policy on non-systemic refinancing of banks, without proper control of their use, contributed to a significant drop in the exchange rate as the principal currency of credit and external transactions. Yes, during 2008, the banks were refinanced to $169.5 billion. Only in the fourth quarter of this year was a refund of 106 billion dollars. The amount of Nazbank's interventions in 2008 was negative. Minus 3.9 billion. The NBA was able to meet the quantification criteria for net international reserves of $26.7 billion provided by the Memorandum of Economic and Financial Policy in the framework of the stand-by programme with IMF. The fall of the dollar struck citizens and landowners who received income and saved savings in the U.S. currency. As a result of the strengthening of the national currency, national exporters who were sold abroad received less money in a bracelet equivalent. During June-August, the situation in the interbank and cash markets was relatively stable with a slight trend towards devaluation. But it became clear in October that the currency market situation was uncontrollable either by the government or by the NBA. During October, the cash exchange rate of the bracelet was strengthened by 14.6 percent. Only in the first half of November did official interbank and cash courses become virtually comparable. The depreciation of the national currency rate has not only become the largest among developing countries, but has resulted in huge losses for both the population and the economy of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, there is much to be said about the negative, but in detention, I would like to say that what must be done now. We need to do what we've talked about all the time. It is urgent for the Government, the National Bank to present a joint anti-crisis programme, where we would really see what will be the course, what will be taken to ensure that the budget deficit is real, not funded by a printing press, as the Government so wishes, and which will ultimately lead to enormous losses for the population and our economy, to tremendous, stressing, loss. Don't give me that. We're gonna turn on the printing machine, like we did in 1993, 1994, 1995. That's why we have to stay here with you together, not let that happen. Only one way to prevent this is to adopt a joint anti-crisis programme that clearly includes directions for supporting our exports, stabilizing the economy and stabilizing the situation that has arisen as a result of the increase in the price of gas. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u104	Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for a question at Mikola Janovich Azarov, if there are. Yeah, it's recording. I'd like you to put on the board the name of the national MPs who signed up. Victor Terrence, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u105	Victor Terrence, please. You should be reporting to the committee right now, giving political evaluations. So this is basic banal shrooming. Your report was to be approved on the committee, not your political evaluation. In this regard, the professionalism of the National Bank, which you are covering, by the way, along with the President, is the same as your knowledge of Ukrainian. But the question is, when you're covering up the Head of the National Bank, you're doing it with the President. And it's a very simple question. How often do you agree with Mr. President?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u106	Oh, well, listen, sometimes I don't even want to answer a stupid question. Is that, a government budget deficit, a political assessment, a negative balance of our balance of payments, a political assessment? What are we talking about? He hasn't actually met the President. And there was no greater criticism of the National Bank than our committee. However, I am now well aware that the National Bank wants to make the free policy final, to include a printing press in order to provide a completely unrealistic budget for the country. And I know what that could lead to. This is already a political assessment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u107	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask once again not to seek or find enemies in the session room. I want to emphasize. When a proposal was made to hold an extraordinary meeting, it would likely be necessary to discuss it on the committee concerned before making proposals. I asked Mikola Janovich Azarov to speak so that we could have a full discussion. And now we're pressing charges against each other. I'd like to ask, let's keep filming this. Demonstrate a normal, civilized approach to relationships. Vladimir Stretovic, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u108	Vladimir Stretović, Party of the Christian-Democratic Union. Mikola Janovich, please tell me, a non-professional in finance. If in mid-December the bracelet was devaluation up to 10 and it started to fall rapidly, if it wasn't for the noise that occurred in Parliament and in society, it would have fallen further, and all of a sudden there were reserves in the National Bank for the course to stop and start strengthening. So isn't that financial speculation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u109	The exchange rates, unfortunately, are not in line with our wishes, our discussions, our assessments. There are subjective and objective factors. I called the subjective factors. This is an indecisive position and the Government of the National Bank, which has led to panic among the population. Now, what are the objective factors? And objective is budget deficit, negative balance of payments, and so on. In September, I stated on one of the broadcasts that it was possible to keep a course of 5.6 dollars per dollar. And if everything were to be done as we planned: if we had made an anti-crisis programme, if the Government and the National Bank had acted decisively rather than hoped to borrow the International Monetary Fund’s stand-bys, we would be heading in the region of six in the worst possible way. We all had opportunities. But we panicked on our own. Which is worth talking to.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u110	Irina Akimov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u111	Akimova, Party of Regions. Nikolai Janović, it is clear that the two sides of the medals you mentioned in your report are government activities and the activities of the National Bank. Since the beginning of 2008, the Government has unleashed unprecedented inflation in Ukraine, which has exceeded 22 per cent. The National Bank responded in a rather soft manner, allowing the Government to actively intervene in its activities. You said how you got the money from two state banks. Let us not forget that the issues of refinancing, and this is the instrument of the National Bank, the Government also wants to take over. Here's the question. Perhaps today we need to discuss not only issues related to the National Bank, but perhaps a completely different problem, but a Government that has not yet submitted an anti-crisis programme that has done nothing to coordinate its efforts with the National Bank, perhaps that is the case.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u112	Give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u113	Maybe that's the main cause of the devaluation of the Ukrainian bracelet, do you think?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u114	I think exactly as you think.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u115	Deputies dubil, faction of the Timoshenko Yulia.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u116	Valerius Dubyl, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. To give the word to Ivan Grigorovitch Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u117	Ivan Kirilenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u118	Dear Mikolo Janovich, there are no words to say again, the National Bank of the Supreme Council. There's a committee in the Supreme Council on banking that you're in charge of. Dear Mikolo Janovich, a committee blocked for a month and a half, the committee has not considered any draft legislation that is related to the financial crisis, and there have been many of them there, including 3585. Unfortunately, both you and the head of the National Bank are the two most responsible, qualified persons in this situation on vacation after a month and a half. And it was forbidden to hold a committee, regardless of the mandate of the Head of the Supreme Council, to appeal to a number of deputies. Mikolo Janović, we've wasted a lot of time. Now in the rostrum, I understand that you can translate there, here and there, and the lost time, including our fault, not too bad, Mikolo Janović.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u119	Ivan Grigoryevich, I've known you for many years. First. The Committee has considered more than eight anti-crisis laws from financial and banking activities, which have been adopted in this room. Among them, I drafted a bill that restricted the independence of the National Bank, transferred rights to the monitoring board, and increased government intervention. But when I saw that a printing press was turned on in December and went to finance the budget's issue money, I knew I was scared. You can't do that. And I will not now support the law in which I wanted to reduce the independence of the National Bank for an anti-crisis period. This must be done by a reasonable Government in order to transfer part of its functions. And if you want to plug all the holes in the printing machine, it'll work our way out, all of us. Therefore, the Committee on Finance, Banking, by the way, only received this morning's report from the National Bank. We should have done better.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u120	Give me the opportunity to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u121	We would rather study it, the Committee on Finance and Banking intended to hear the report of the Interim Investigation Commission, consider other materials and then make an objective submission to the Supreme Council for its consideration. The issues are extremely important and responsible, and they cannot be resolved from the bottom.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u122	For the sake of that, your Honorable colleagues, the National Bank report. I would like to remind you that there is article 240 of the Supreme Council Rules, which the Supreme Council has neither been used nor used, namely: annual written reports and information from officials on whom the Supreme Council of Ukraine agrees to appoint them to office or appoint or elect them, except for the judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine and the courts of general jurisdiction in the cases provided for by law. Or to implement the decisions of the Supreme Council, they are submitted to the Supreme Council and made available to the Ukrainian National Deputies. We had to control this rule a long time ago. Sadly, from chance to case, we turn to her. Please, Alla Alexandrovska, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u123	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Nikolai Janović, I very much respect and believe that your position is largely correct, but you are at odds with yourself. You just said that you've made a decision, that you don't need to limit the independence of the National Bank of Ukraine, because you've seen the issue and so on and so forth. However, the printing press is at the disposal of Nazbank Ukraine. That is why, perhaps, what Litwin has just said is that we really have a weak control function, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, control, including the activities of the National Bank of Ukraine. That's my general comment on your statement, so to speak. You say that you support the Communist position that the National Bank of Ukraine had to limit the accounting rate of banks had to monitor the accounting rate more clearly; it had to require banks of Ukraine not to raise interest rates on investors. People are panicking today, you know? And you and I had to stop this process. And please. After all, say more specifically what you mean by an anti-crisis.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u124	Give me a chance to finish. You all said that, didn't you?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u125	The room sounds very often from different mouths, from different factions, that we need an anti-crisis program. On the one hand, the Government is scolding that it has allegedly not introduced an anti-crisis programme, on the other hand, we also claim that in our Hall we are approving anti-crisis laws, which must probably be part of a plan. So this is exactly what you are, personally, as chairman of the committee and as representative of the largest faction here in the Supreme Council, what do you mean by the anti-crisis programme that it should contain?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u126	Well, in one minute, it's very difficult to answer such difficult questions. If Vladimir Mikhailovich gives me literally, there, a few minutes, I'll do my best.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u127	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u128	First. Of course, the National Bank once again, I stress, together with the Government, had to consider measures to protect investors. You and I, as you recall, have made a decision: we have guaranteed the population's contributions to 150,000 bracelets. But when we saw that no bracelet had been allocated to these 150,000, and it would have to be allocated, that is, the State budget would have to provide for a significant resource to guarantee the contributions of the population. Real action is always more reassuring to citizens and people than any declaration. Of course, the Government together, I stress, with the National Bank, it could develop very specific measures to protect creditors. And such measures are known. Partly assume the repayment of the rate, such as extending credit and taking risks and a number of other measures. But the National Bank alone can't do that because it doesn't have that kind of resources. The resources should be provided by the Government. And now we're going back to the main thing: what is an anti-crisis program? The anti-crisis programme is primarily the balance of available resources. The country has a certain amount of resources and we need to decide, first and foremost, that the Government should make a proposal to the Supreme Council: and how these resources should be allocated to what, to provide social protection for citizens, to support the economy, to support the banking system and so on and so forth. This is what makes up the anti-crisis program. She's still gone, all we're hearing right now is I'm just freaked out by the fact that we've calculated the gas with the emission money, that we've calculated the gas by using and taking the country's currency reserves. And then what are we going to do? Who gave such a right? Why is oilegas a business structure calculated by the country's currency reserves? Now the pension will be easier for the pensioners if they get their bracelets from the printing press, give them a pension, pay for it? This will result in price increases. That's what we've been through. Here we go. Who attacked the National Bank? Who is responsible for such a command to the National Bank? Why do we not ask this question as main and serious? What we are going to do in February, because the Pension Fund's deficit is nowhere to be found, is the same in February and March. So now the anti-crisis programme must give a clear and clear answer. But the question is, the government must be professional, responsible, that's all.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u129	Thank you, Mikola Janovich. Dear colleagues, among other things, for information on the activities of the Interim Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the verification of the activities of the National Bank of Ukraine during the financial crisis, is spoken by Yuri Poluniev, chairman of the commission. Please, 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u130	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! The question of the National Bank, the effectiveness of its activities during the financial crisis, is an extremely complex, sensitive, professional issue. So the debate on this really needs to be sober, with analysis and study of all the facts and understanding that the situation in which Ukraine today is not only Ukraine, but also most countries in the world that have encountered unprecedented deep, scale and causes of crisis need, first and foremost, a very effective coordination of cooperation between all branches of government, particularly between the National Bank, the Government and other authorities, I mean Parliament first. The interim commission of inquiry continues to study materials related to the subject of its activities, and it has done its own report, which makes no sense to repeat today. But in my statement, I would like to make a few observations on the subject of this extraordinary meeting of the Supreme Council. First of all, what I want to say is what the experience of all countries in developing and implementing anticrisis measures today shows. It shows that in most cases, unfortunately, there is a printing press, in most cases the government is responsible for supporting the financing of key priorities for the survival of an economy, for the rehabilitation of, among other things, the financial sectors that have suffered most. What key and systemic question arises in this context? It is an effective social control – control of power, control of the people, control of Parliament over the movement of all money, its purpose and its purpose and its effective use. Therefore, the question of the independence of the National Bank today should be considered in the context of the new circumstances that have arisen in the country. No one questions the classic formula for the independence of the National Bank. But today this independence cannot or should not mean the lack of accountability, transparency and inefficiency in carrying out the tasks facing it today. And these tasks are critical. What claims today could be put forward by the National Bank? You know, in this game, the government is supposed to develop a bank rehabilitation program and so on, no, the National Bank is the regulator of the banking system. He had colossal equipment, colossal resources, the best experts, to initiate the development of a master plan to stabilize the banking system. Why is this important? Because resources have to go through the banking system, it has to be at least stable and healthy. No one anywhere, no committee meetings, no Supreme Council saw any master plans in the rehabilitation of Ukraine's banking system. And I think that the first systemic flaw that the National Bank faces and is fully responsible for it. The other one. We understand with you that coordination, which is to be a key element of interaction and anti-crisis action today, including that the National Bank should comply with article 86 of the Ukrainian Act on the 2009 State Budget for Ukraine's refinancing and refinancing procedures. Is that normal, or are we not interfering with the activities of the National Bank? It's perfectly normal. Reconciliation does not mean interference with independence. It's a normal crisis procedure. How did the National Bank react to Article 86? At first, he came out with public criticism of this article. He has no right of the National Bank to criticize the law, he has to do it. Secondly, he takes an extremely interesting step, sending telegrams to commercial banks, saying that, in view of the adoption by Parliament of the State Budget Act and article 86, he stops the refinancing of commercial banks. What he has to do in an operational order to maintain liquidity. Is that the right approach? No, it's not. These procedures should be initiated by the National Bank and on January 2nd, 3rd, introduced into the government for reconciliation. So far, this order has not been harmonized, and the National Bank is trying to dictate to the government that the government has allegedly stopped the refinancing. That's not true. The initiative should be shown by the National Bank, only by it, its mandate and its core function. Next. We have very serious claims, a commission, very serious claims to transparency and effectiveness of the National Bank's refinancing procedures. In the process of our work, there are new documents that show that this refinancing takes place not only in the face of the normative documents that the National Bank itself has accepted for its work, but even in the face of the conclusions of its own lawyers, who have concluded to the National Bank that certain transactions, certain banks, are appropriate to refinance. Again, it is the notorious bank “Nadra”. We received the Commission's material, which was created by the National Bank to study this issue in order to provide another three billion-billion-dollar tranche for Nadra. What did she decide? First and foremost, there are no legal reasons under article 86. But that's not the point. There is a disagreement between the National Bank and Nadra on the issue of the loan repayment schedule, which to date is contradictory, i.e. those loans that have already been granted. Unliquidated obligations in the bank’s guarantee letters are appropriately transferred as collateral for the bank’s shares. No explanation has been provided for the Bank’s Chief Executive on a number of occasions. There are also no relevant documents on the financial situation of the company-leader of the DF-limited group. “As a result of the review”, I will read you the paragraphs in the document of the Internal National Bank. “As a result of the consideration of the draft property rights agreement, it is established that the security is offered to the property of the debtors of the bank, the natural persons, according to a total of 5.6 billion dollars. The security offered by the bank does not meet the requirements of any of the existing mechanisms to support bank liquidity by the National Bank of Ukraine.” In addition, no information is available on the latest reporting date for the borrower class. There is no information on whether or not the bank’s lenders are unconfirmed payments, not all packages have mandatory insurance policies and so on. The bank has not confirmed the accountability of the bank’s balance sheet for 30 days and the accounting of the debt on the insurance account. And listen to the conclusion: “The findings of the Banking Supervisory Service of the National Bank submitted to the Chief Executive cannot be the basis for a contract to make a property claim in connection with the absence of credit. We consider it appropriate to draw up property rights contracts for those branches of the National Bank that have been tested by the collateral banks. Before deciding on further support for the bank’s liquidity, we consider it necessary to undertake a detailed analysis of the targeted use of the funds provided by the National Bank of Ukraine.” [[referred to as “Nadra”]] Conclusion. In order to ensure the necessary control over the use of the refinancing loan, that is, our public funds with you, we consider it appropriate to consider the issue of holding a temporary administration at the “Nadra” bank. And the signatures of nine leading lawyers. And if we look at the target use, we see, at least, from the unofficial information we got, that's about 7.4 billion.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u131	Give me a chance to finish, a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u132	These were long-term refinancing loans, they were long-term loans to individuals. Until the targeted use of funds on such unprecedented scales is thoroughly analysed, we are talking about four percent of Ukraine's gross domestic product, which is provided to individual private entities without proper control over their intended use. I believe that the issue of the opacity and bias of the National Bank's government regarding individual banks remains not only open, it needs immediate intervention and the prosecutor's office, and the Court of Auditors, as you and I have decided in the Supreme Council's decision. In this regard, at the special meeting of the Temporary Investigation Commission this morning, we approved draft regulations that I would like to make for the consideration of the Supreme Council. Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the activities of the National Bank of Ukraine during the financial crisis and the state of implementation of the decisions of the Supreme Council on these issues. A report by the head of the National Bank of Ukraine on the activities of the National Bank of Ukraine during the financial crisis is well known. The other one. Recognizing the work of the National Bank during a financial crisis is unsatisfactory. Third. To recognize the amounts of the refinancing procedure that the National Bank carried out during October and December 2008 and its organisation of the currency market in such a way that, at the previous conclusion of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the verification of the activities of the National Bank, the untransparent, prejudiced towards individual financial structures contributed to the sharp devaluation of the national currency and the deepening of inflation. In this regard, paragraph 4 states that the Supreme Council of Ukraine expressed its mistrust with the head of the National Bank of Ukraine Stelma, for which, by the way, it voted 380 votes in this Chamber, which under the National Bank of Ukraine Act has a personal responsibility for the operation of the National Bank of Ukraine. Two times the Supreme Council addressed the President with an appropriate proposal, and the President of Ukraine did not take action under the Constitution of Ukraine to consider it unacceptable to continue to hold Stelmak as head of the National Bank. Paragraph five. Admitting that the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s decree of 16 December 2004 No. 2244 concerning the appointment of Stelmacha as head of the National Bank of Ukraine had become invalid. This decision takes effect on the day of its adoption.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u133	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u134	This is the first draft of a ruling. And a draft of a second order that I, on behalf of the Interim Investigation Commission, will bring to the attention of the Hall. This is a decree to consider that the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order of 16 December 2004 No. 2243 “On the Liberation of Tihyp S.L. from the position of head of the National Bank.”
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u135	Dear colleagues, the Chairman of the Temporary Commission has been briefed, we have to ask the rapporteur a question, we will do it after the break, there is also a special thought to be made by the representatives of the Temporary Investigation Commission. Before we announce a recess, Your Honor, to your attention. First. Tomorrow at 12 o'clock in the city of Lugansk will begin farewell to our colleague Valery Alexanderovich. Please take this to heart. And the second. A meeting of the Conciliation Board will take place during the break. I ask the faction leaders to meet in the Cabinet of the Supreme Council and ask the head of the Committee on Finance and Banking to participate in the meeting of the Conciliation Council, as well as the head of the Temporary Investigation Commission. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 35 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u136	Dear colleagues, we continue our morning plenary session. I ask you to come to the rostrum of Yuri Volodymyrovich Poluniev. Let's sign up for a question to the reporter. Pavlovsky Andry Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u137	Andrey Pavlowski, please give the floor to the deputy to the Horn.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u138	Upstairs “Blood of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear reporter, the previous reporter from the Party of Regions said in his report that they have a B.S.A., that they have the Attorney General's Office. So I have a question: is there really a basis for the commission to open a criminal case today and for the management of the National Bank to bear not only political responsibility but also criminal responsibility? And whether, once again, the predecessor's speech doesn't show that the responsibility for today is both borne by the Party of Regions, and the President, who I emphasize again, has said that they have a B.S.A. and they have a prosecutor's office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u139	Thank you for asking. The answer is yes. The Supreme Council of Ukraine ruled on the results of the previous report of the Interim Investigation Commission, for which the documents and materials of the Interim Investigation Commission were sent to the Attorney General’s Office and to the Accountant’s salary. We have a permanent working dialogue with the Attorney General about the subject matter of the interim commission of inquiry. The Attorney General's Office is currently investigating the activities of the National Bank, conducting the necessary analytical actions, but resists, as does the interim commission of inquiry in the Banking Mystery Act, which does not allow conclusions to be drawn on whether or not there are any signs of crime. So today we're going to continue our work with the Attorney General's Office to gain access through the court to materials, contracts between the National Bank and commercial banks, and to learn the details.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u140	Bondarenko Volodymir Dmitrovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u141	Vladimir Bondarenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear Mr. Yuri, you are the only one who spoke professionally today, speaking of things that are actually under consideration today. In fact, less emotion, but more logic and more arguments. I am interested in this and in the information that you have published about the availability of the document at the signature, it seems that nine bankers have been told that the management of the National Bank has been informed and warned of the inadmissibility of further action, particularly with regard to the Nadra Bank. Well, I understand what the problem is. Firtash suffered massive losses in the gas market, and he had to find compensators. And this compensator, apparently, was for him to transfer large sums of money to this private financial institution, which he now actually owns. I mean, it already belongs to him. So I'd like to ask: was this really known to the head of the National Bank and they didn't respond to this note?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u142	I think that the management of the National Bank has not only been informed of this note, it must have studied it in detail. I can't talk to a hundred percent of the evidence that the management of the National Bank has been able to come to that conclusion. But what would I like to emphasize? That the work of the interim commission of inquiry is not directed against specific banks or specific people who may be the owners of the bank. The task of the interim commission of inquiry is to make sure that the National Bank, by providing a refinancing function, does so in strict compliance with the requirements of legislation. Today, we have doubts that we are trying to support the documentary and the facts of what refinancing is, these procedures are being carried out in a transparent manner and in violation of the internal procedures of the National Bank. And that's what the document that we got, unfortunately, was unofficial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u143	Karskov Evgen Igorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u144	It's a short, concise question. [[We're here.]] The assets of all banks increased by 253 billion in 2008 and accounted for almost 800 billion grivens. And the net profit from the banks was 10 billion. Where did the money go, and to whom did we help, and why did we help?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u145	That's a good question. Thank you for asking. Indeed, the banking, banking sector of Ukraine in 2008, i.e. last year, demonstrated the highest profitability among all sectors of the Ukrainian economy. So by drawing our own conclusions, working now on this issue, we are certainly asking for any recapitalisation programs, the recapitalisation of Ukrainian banks, to conduct dialogues. And it's not just a dialogue, it's a requirement for owners to participate in this recapitalisation through their own funds. Without this, there can be no recapitalisation of banks. This is a principled position for both my and the members of the commission. Therefore, those who have received these profits today have the condition that the banking system is in a really difficult situation to make its own contribution by its capital to the consolidation of its banks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u146	Olinik Viktor Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u147	Please give the floor to colleague Gnatkevich Yuri Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u148	Dear Yuri Volodymyrovich, it is not the first time that the Supreme Council has asked me about the responsibility of the Head of the National Bank. A number of members of the Supreme Council are present in this room for the first time. I also see the esteemed Valentin Simonek, the head of the House of Auditors. And we remember, as we say in our village, we filmed the then Head of the National Bank of Vladimir Matvienka. I was sitting in the front row, just like in front of you, literally, in front of the rostrum, and I saw how worried the person was. When he came down from the rostrum, he did not even get to the government bed and sat next to me in the front row, and he was deeply troubled. In this connection, I would like to point out that today our reporter, Sapovalov, was very confident, I would say, more confident of many of us as deputies and other reporters. In this connection, you will meet.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u149	Complete the question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u150	With the head of the National Bank of Stelmach? If so, how many times? And what motivates his absence, his unwillingness to be present to discuss these issues in the Supreme Council?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u151	Thank you for asking. We met several times with the head of the National Bank, Vladimir Seminovich Stelma. It's not just me, it's the commission. We had a rather long discussion with him about the subject of the temporary commission of inquiry. We received documents and answers to our questions. I don't know why he's missing, what's the reason. A person may have personal reasons. And the interim commission of inquiry can't find out these reasons right now. But I want to emphasize one more point. The work of our commission is not a vendetta against Stelmach or against Shapov. The challenge is to increase the effectiveness of the National Bank’s operations in crisis situations. Today, the conclusion that this activity was ineffective remains. So it's not that there's a Stelmacha, although today it's a major obstacle to bringing order to the National Bank. The question is to really set up a new team of effective managers that can.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u152	Smélová Svetlana Alexandrovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u153	Schmellow, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I am convinced that you and I have begun to order in the banking structure not from the end. Remember, in a well - known film, when he took the pot from the bottom, he had to take the top one so that it would not fall. We need to resolve the main issue: express our mistrust and immediately initiate the President's impeachment procedure. After that, it will be up to the National Bank and its management, because it is the President who directs the actions of Stelmacha, as well as the prosecutor's office, the BSS and other structures. That is why all of us need to be united. As long as Nazbank’s head plays the role of a ball that kills each other’s two strongest scores of goals for the struggle of power, the state suffers, and, of course, the population. I want to ask you, are you sick of playing with fire?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u154	I don't know if it's a question of whether it's just a statement of position. I can tell you one thing. Strangely enough, the President himself at many of the working meetings and meetings that I attended, including my presence, was very critical, extremely critical of the activities of the National Bank. The question arises: “Why, after the Supreme Council has expressed its mistrust, does it delay its response? ” This is a question that we want to sharpen and, in fact, today’s initiative, today’s meeting of the Supreme Council on this subject. The situation is critical, we need to act. The president won't act.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u155	Biruk Lev Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u156	Dear Mr. Golovo, Ukraine and Europe have not yet forgotten the confusion with the gold reserve at a time when the National Bank was run by the current President Victor Yushchenko. I have a question for you. Have you had the opportunity to verify that today the National Bank of Ukraine controls a 30-billion-dollar gold reserve? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u157	The information on the gold currency stock, I want to deliberately highlight, not the National Bank, the gold currency of the country. And here we're making a mistake when we're talking about the national bank's gold stock. This is the information that has the "state secret", the disclosure of this information in detail, I think is harmful, but one thing I can say is that the audit of the country's gold reserves was made by the International Monetary Fund, and he had no questions about the state of the Ukraine's gold reserves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u158	Thank you, Yuri Volodymyrovich. Please have a seat. Thank you, Yuri Volodymyrovich. Please have a seat. A member of the Lukyanov Commission, Vladislav Valentinović, spoke on his own. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u159	Respectable citizens of Ukraine, respected colleagues, national MPs! Clearly, the situation is a crisis. The situation is a crisis in both the financial market and the economy, and we see that these things are interconnected. And when we look at the situation on the one hand only, it's clear that we're going to get a biased decision. Of course, the authorities are to blame before the people of Ukraine. Of course, we insist on responsibilities, and more importantly, we insist on criminal liability on officials who have violated legislation that have not protected or ensured the fulfilment of the interests of Ukrainian citizens. But there is one question: Who is to blame, who is to be held accountable? And there's a clear answer that the guilty authority, and the guilty authority isn't in the person present here, well, I can't say that the archers, though the deputy head of the National Bank is not the archer, but there is the President of Ukraine who runs the National Bank as his unit in the Secretariat, is the Government of Ukraine, who has to take responsibility under the Constitution of Ukraine for financial policy, and who is destroying Ukraine's economy and state. Who must answer in this situation? I'm sure these people are now: and the President of Ukraine, Victor Andryovich Yushchenko, and the Prime Minister, Mrs. Timoshenko, are watching the Supreme Council right now, but they have to watch not on television, but the President has to be on the Council, and the government has to be on its own. We see neither the minister of finance nor the minister of economy nor the head of government. Who is responsible for these questions? [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, Minister. Where's the minister of finance? Where's the head of government? We've seen that government from the very beginning, from the first day of work, began to destroy the Ukrainian economy. We have seen that inflation has increased rapidly since the first day of government work and in the first months. What did the government continue to do? And then the government started making -- using monetary methods to push on the real economy, it started destroying the industry, destroying the export sectors of the economy. What we got as a result is a deficit in the external trade balance of over $17 billion. Listen to this figure: $17 billion in external trade deficits. Is this a normal situation? Is this a normal government? Shame on such a government! And such a government must be retired. The following steps have been taken. After that, the government began a war on the gas market. What we got was that Ukrainian companies stopped because they didn't have gas. What we got as a result is that we got more than twice the price of gas. Now the government is talking about the cost of $360 per thousand cubic metres of gas on the border of Ukraine. Who took that gas at such a price? Is there even one business? We know there's going to be traffic jams, we know that the government has made gas spikes for all heavy-duty companies, the chemical industry, from 8 to 12 percent. It was at a time when we needed to update, upgrade our old core funds, the government was doing everything to destroy the economy, so that people would lose their jobs, lose their livelihoods. And now the government says they're innocent. The government is now looking for another “shooter” to translate its problems. Isn't this a disgrace to the government?Oh, my God! Shame! And every person who has a conscience should support the proposal that I now make. I propose now to take the supplement to the decision: to invite the head of government here, the President, and, indeed, to take these matters seriously. If you are unable to perform the functions you have taken, resign or work or leave! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u160	Thank you. I invite you to hear from the head of the Chamber of Auditors, Valentina Konstantinovich Simonenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u161	Alexander Valentinovich, how much time do you give me? Dear Alexander Vladimirović, distinguished people's deputies, as you know, the Supreme Council of Ukraine's decision to carry out a review of the merits and the availability by the National Bank in October-December 2008 of the level of refinancing. This decree has been in force since 14 January of this year. And in the five to six working days that we started the test, we did the following: we made our changes to the work of the panel, so we made a more detailed plan. This plan is said to have entered into an agreement with the National Bank of Akarina. And they started working, that is, checking goes, starting their work. There is a collection and processing of materials. A few figures are given to guide the problem in its essence. Over the past three months, the National Bank, 2008 has issued loans to 121 banks worth more than 105 billion dollars. Which is about a third, is two thirds of the total funding for the year 2008. The number of loans will exceed, for one working day, only four. 42.9 billion gruesome. Other direct-tail credits, a deposit exchange operation with government securities, amounted to 16.9 billion bracelets. In order to be oriented, I'll give you the amount that, compared to 2008, 7 years, that's the whole of 2007, the level of refinancing was only 2.5 billion dollars. In order to give you a full, informed, professional and completely uninvolved answer to the questions raised, as you yourself understand, specific credit agreements need to be examined first and more than 130. That is why it is necessary, and we have already been warned that this is a bank secret, because under the Banking and Banking Act, only law enforcement authorities and the court's decision can reveal the secret, therefore. And before that, you've got the Attorney General's office. The Attorney General's Office has now filed with the court, and we hope that tomorrow all these credit agreements will be available to us and we will start working, as there is agreement with the Attorney General's Office, and with the leadership of the National Bank, that after the court's decision we will be able to verify these credit agreements. However, respected colleagues, the Court of Auditors and yourself would be much easier to give orders and we would be able to carry out tasks if the Act on the Court of Auditors clearly defined its respective supervisory powers with regard to the control of the bank. The National Bank, inter alia, on the control of the issuance of money, the presentation of credit and the placement of gold coins. We had them, but since the submission of the former President of Ukraine, the Constitutional Court has taken them away. This is necessary, especially in this situation, and it is imperative that we give these powers back to us. What now, distinguished colleagues, must be borne in mind, and what I should advise and how to say, as a citizen, first of all. We have also annually, and in 2008, we have given a very detailed, thorough audit of the use of the National Bank's funds in September. This is not much, not much, but about 8.5 billion bracelets, of which about three billion bracelets were added to the 2007 budget. All income comes from the National Bank's credit and monetary activities, i.e. about 90 per cent of all income goes. This is a very interesting situation, and it is said that it is not an instructive situation, but an economic situation. We've put all these questions to you for your consideration. Having submitted questions for this consideration since September, the former President, Yatzenuk, has written down, but unfortunately, the train is not being considered there. In my view, the substantive consideration of this issue has given much answers to the role and relationships of the Council of the National Bank, the Government of the Bank and the Government. I'll give you a little bit of time, I'll literally tell you in a few words.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u162	Volodymyr Alexiovich, please don't abuse me. Two minutes, and you're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u163	Yeah, two minutes. So here we have, distinguished colleagues, I have received the National Bank Act, and I read article 8 “Leading authorities”: “The National Bank Board is the National Bank of Ukraine and the administration of the National Bank of Ukraine”. Prior to the approval of the National Bank of Ukraine, until 15 September, it develops the basic principles of monetary and credit policy, monitors the implementation of the basic principles of monetary and credit policy, makes recommendations to the government of the National Bank within the framework of developed core and credit policies, and ensures the policy of exchange and exchange. It's all there. And here's an interesting question for me, all of whom we invite here, and the National Council of the Bank doesn't invite anyone and no one invites or asks. 15 people, 7 or 8 of them. And all the questions they had to answer had to be answered first. We say, "Yes, but instead, what do we see?" Already a number of fellow members of this council have become some television Belmondo who are just commenting and not responsible for anything. Despite this, there are offices in the National Bank, a machine that helps them to work, yes, money they eat more than our verifiers do. And no results. The same should be noted because the National Bank's Council is institutionally higher than the National Bank's Board. And all these questions must be. And if we put it, it's not us, if you're asking me to fire Stellak, it's one thing. And if you want to put order in this delicate economic issue, you have to ask the Council of the National Bank. And respectable colleagues! Last, literally a few words, literally a few phrases. What we've been asked to do is great, it's necessary. And we're professional, and we'll make it clear and report back to you in the next three or four weeks. It's what you need. But most importantly, if we focus on the monetary component of our economic life, we lose the economic component, we lose the real economy. Think about it. Today, $4.5 billion should bring our chemical industry to Ukraine. And the chemical industry didn't work for one day this month, it's said. What's next? That's one question, more than that, we have.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u164	Valentina Costinovich, thank you. Thank you, you've taken four minutes, not two. Please have a question for the head of the Accounting Chamber.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u165	Any questions? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u166	Mr. Sergey Grigorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u167	Please pass the word to Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u168	Valentina Konstantinovich! So I understand from your report that, to date, the National Bank is not actually being checked by anyone, nobody understands what's going on in the area of refinancing, or in the area of gold reserves and reserves, no one understands how Ukraine is today protected from defolt, and whether it has government today, and all the country's support in terms of sustaining the economy during the global financial crisis. I'd like to make it perfectly clear that today we're not doing some kind of political conversion, today we're going to fight for what kind of currency people are going to buy and sell, how the economy is going to develop. So tell me, please, do you think today is enough for the National Bank to work transparently and do you think you can figure out enough today whether public affairs are being done or maybe private interests are being exploited? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u169	I can clearly and clearly say, not transparently! We therefore need this to be truly transparent in the corridor that is needed for public decision-making. Therefore, the entire system for monitoring the work of the National Bank and, above all, at the grass-roots regional levels of the Office of the National Bank, through the Council of the National Bank and through the Court of Auditors of Ukraine, which should have these. We have to have and therefore we say, in order to give clear answers and to blame someone, we need to verify all credit agreements, and these credit agreements almost no one can verify, only by decision of the law enforcement authorities. Give us that function, and we'll be happy to do it. We do it practically and indirectly when we check the National Bank's income through credit policies. But it's mediocre, not proveable.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u170	Taran Viktor Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u171	Please give it to Oleg Valeriovich Lazka. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u172	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear Valentina Konstantinovich, the materials provided by the Court of Auditors regarding the use of State budget funds are quite interesting and instructive. And in particular, in the budget committee, we use them when we're planning a budget. About the National Bank. The first deputy of Nazbanku Shapovalov's head was unable to answer the question of how seven billion dollars were used, which the Nadra Bank, owned by Firtash, received assistance from the National Bank. Not knowing how these seven billion have been used, they're making decisions against the budget law, giving three billion more. Please tell me, does the House of Accounts know how these funds were used? And if he does not know, are you tasking yourself to find out and report to the Supreme Council where billions of dollars have gone to help the private bank?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u173	This question can be answered clearly when the loan agreement itself is examined, which is taken on bail, which the National Bank has received, under what conditions and when, and the consequences of what will be taken. In the first approximation, of course, these amounts are uncomparable in the first approach to the system of refinancing that is currently in place. Moreover, the refinancing system itself does not even provide for verification, i.e. not of any programmes, but, above all, support for bank liquidity. There have been no liquidity signals from Nadrabank that there is a problem with Nadrabank illiquidity, in our opinion. But in order to answer that question clearly, we need to have a credit agreement, a credit agreement, then we will say professionally, objectively and clearly yes or no.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u174	Vaszczuk Katerina Timofievna
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u175	I'd like to ask the following question. We're all in this room today, and we understand and we want to get the support of the Court of Auditors here, which will control that only then will the banking system of Ukraine perform its functions when the production works, when the production programs are being loaned, then we can talk about the standard of living, about pensions, about everything about the lives of our Ukrainians. So today, I want to ask you a little bit more about this point, because when we passed the law on this Council and we went to Nazbank many times to give the first of all the funds to refinance to those banks that were lending the APC, miners and other sectors that were working for the economy of Ukraine, other banks got those banks.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u176	Please complete the question, Catherine Timofievna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u177	Most of the money went to those banks that lend consumer loans, and that's what we need. But if consumer loans are given credit for goods that are made abroad, we're lending other people's production and they're dying. Therefore, please pay particular attention to these points when checking.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u178	Moreover, foreign bank branches were being credited to ensure that our lending went smoothly, it is said, not in use, but abroad. But this has to be checked, again, through credit agreements, to make sure this isn't the case, we'll be happy. You're free to go, aren't you?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u179	Thank you. Please have a seat.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u180	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u181	Let's sign up for factions, please. Yavorowski Vladimir Aleksandrovitch, Yulia Timoshenko Block, please. National MP Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u182	Today, without exaggeration, the whole country is monitoring developments in the Supreme Council. Here I was yesterday, meeting with the voters yesterday, Sunday, Saturday in Chernigovishte. Barvensky, Srebnyan district. Question number one, what's going on with the bracelet? How we pay money for drugs, how we pay money for energy supplies, where we take that money. I mean, for people, that's the main question right now. And it was very sad to see here a representative of the National Bank, who was in a hurry to answer the questions of the people's deputies. We understand that the billions that you've made as a result of providing illegally on corrupt grounds of refinancing, they allow you to look at the future in a calm way, tomorrow. There's something to go with tomorrow. But millions of people who have suffered as a result of such policies today’s leadership of the National Bank do not have such a future. They can't see him. That is why the initiative of the “Julia Timoshenko Block” supported by representatives of other factions today is being addressed by the Supreme Council in an off-the-shelf regime. Why the extravaganza? Because twice on December 26, 2008 and on January 15, 2009, the Parliament voted in favour of the decrees that called on President Yushchenka to immediately file for the release of Stelmach from the position of head of the National Bank and to put another candidate in office. Unfortunately, the President ignores these appeals by the Supreme Council and continues to remain silent. So taking full responsibility for the collapse of the bracelets, for the management of the National Bank. Since the Supreme Council cannot remain silent under these conditions, that is why we initiated a discussion of the matter. Those who tell us that we don't have the right to ask questions about the removal of Stelmacha, let them go into the pharmacies and see how much drugs they cost, let them go to the market or to the store and see how much imported goods are costing, which the vast majority of people come here. Twice, three times as much as the result of the activities of the National Bank and today’s leadership. In the Ukrainian State Independence Act, which is on the front of the building, it begins with the following words: “In view of the grave danger that prevailed over the country as a result of the coup in Moscow, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides to declare Ukraine’s state independence.” So I'm proposing these decisions that we're proposing to take away, to admit that we've lost the validity of the decision to choose Stelma to start with those words. Given the deadly danger that prevailed over the country's economy, over millions of Ukrainian citizens as a result of the corruption policy of the National Bank, as a result of the silence of the criminal, without exaggeration, silence and consideration by the President, the peaceful viewing of how millions of families are impoverished, how millions cannot pay off loans or borrow loans, or get their deposits that they have deposited. The National Bank, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decrees: to recognize that it has lost its validity as the decision to elect Stelmah as Head of the National Bank. And I am very sorry for today’s leadership and for the fact that people simply have no conscience. The bracelet was laid down, and the company and the company were able to make billions of dollars, close to today’s leadership. He tells us that he does not know where the 7 billion were spent. I'll tell you the materials that the commission of inquiry has. Bank “Nadra” bought most of these dollars, then resold these dollars after a while, twice as much on the bracelet as it earned and distributed these bracelets to individuals, actually took the money out of the system. There is no money to lend an agribusiness complex to other important sectors of the domestic industry in the National Bank, and there is no money to give a private bank 7 billion, then against the law, another 3 billion to make decisions. And these decisions were signed here by the first deputy head of the National Bank. Contrary to the State Budget Act, which directly foresees the responsibility of the National Bank, together with the government to resolve these issues, they ignore laws, they ignore people's interests, they ignore common sense when it comes to the billions that can be made today. But the price of these billions, Mr. Shapowalov and the company, is tears, it is grief, it is the blood of those who cannot return, who cannot support their families, who have nothing to buy bread for, let alone rest. And you tell people where you rested on winter vacations on which islands you were on? What kind of money did you go there for? Thank you and we expect the Supreme Council to make the right decisions and stop the invasion of the National Bank.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u183	Belowova Irina Anatoliyevna, “Block of Lithuania”.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u184	Dear colleagues! According to members of the Lithuanian Block, one of the necessary conditions for overcoming the global economic crisis is the consistent and transparent policy of the National Bank of Ukraine. Today, the situation of the banking system is more than threatening. You and I have been in a terrible situation, unpredictable. In the face of the crisis, the National Bank has unfortunately failed to demonstrate either sound tactics or a clear strategy. The unpredictability of the exchange rate does not allow the country's real budget to be created, business plans to be formed, credits to be extinguished, and gas calculations to be made in the internal market will be avoided. As early as autumn 2007, during the crisis in the US mortgage market, it became clear that a global crisis was on the way. However, the National Bank of Ukraine responded in a very strange way to this situation. Instead of reducing the risk of mortgage, consumer credit, the National Bank has frozen the lending of the real economy. When the crisis broke out, Nazbank gave more than 40 billion bracelets to commercial banks in the form of refinancing. Without monitoring the mechanism, however, the mechanism for the targeted use of these funds. It is not wise for banks to invest this money in the most profitable commodity, in the currency, and to expel that currency abroad. In an effort to save the banking system, Nazbank began to refinance. The additional money has balanced the financial system of the State and has led to widespread situations. Surprisingly, the position of the National Bank, which has struggled with speculators for the rest of its life, and now, with little green light, it has supported them with serious resources. Throughout the past year, we have heard from you that the National Bank ensures the quality structure and high liquidity of Ukraine's gold reserves. If that's true and if at the time of receiving the IMF tranche we had 32 billion gold reserves, and they were all liquid high, then why did they even take that loan? In the end, we did get the first tranche. And it is now felt that, instead of developing an effective and effective plan to deal with the financial crisis, the National Bank is fanatically following the recommendations of the International Monetary Fund. But, unfortunately, that's not all. Thanks to IMF money, private debt is transferred to the public, corporate sector debt is transferred to the budget, and there is an opportunity to withdraw profits and debts abroad. The lack of understanding of what is happening to the dollar and the banks has driven our population into hysteria. Many have tried to buy a valuable currency and to take deposits from banks, based solely on a sense of panic. Businesses began to close projects, not because of real financial problems, but because of misunderstandings in which they could not be addressed. However, a large part of the population is accused of increasing the prices of Nazbank. Of course, Nazbank can't be blamed for all his sins. But it must also be acknowledged that the chaotic, inconsistent statement of the chief banker has led the country to lose its confidence in the monetary authority. What he is thinking about is the stability of the national currency, which is based on the Big Mac index. You all remember his November speeches. Today, it can be argued that over the past six months the word of the country's chief banker has devalued more than the bracelet itself. And today, when bankers, to keep from losing their investors, offer them a cloudy interest, with a clear understanding that they have no source of such high profitability. This means that the entire banking system has become a huge financial pyramid and we continue to invest billions of money in refinancing. At the same time, Vladimir Stelmah’s commitment to secrecy, as well as the Swiss principle that money loves silence, led to absurdity in times of crisis. He probably just remembers the Russian saying, "Shut up, maybe you'll be smart." Under such an untransparent policy of the central bank, its actions appear inconsistent and unprepared. It should be noted that there are no problems with statistics at the moment, we can go to the National Bank's website, get different information about their periodicity, but the National Bank's projections.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u185	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u186	No, it's not. Of all the high-ranking officials of the National Bank, only Alexander Savchenko, in advance, will not concentrate on the projections. However, these projections rarely coincide with the reality and are even less likely to coincide with Stemach himself. I think that there is consensus in this room as to whether the country's main bank needs transparency. Official information is a key moment, it manages inflation expectations, both for the population and for the people, and the lower they are, the less inflation you and I know. It becomes clear to us that only a new leader can build Nazbank's reputation, build it, not restore it. It is impossible to restore trust in the bank by repeating the mantras of the stability of the national currency today. It is clear that the policies of the National Bank cannot change without a change of leadership. In conclusion, I would like to stress once again that it is particularly important to shift approaches to addressing liquidity, interest rates, refinancing procedures, external debt. Otherwise, if a new leader comes and starts to apply even more fully the existing methods that have actually led to the crisis, we will not be able to save the economy of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u187	Grigorovich Lilia Stepanovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u188	Honourable Alexander Volodymyrovich, honourable deputies, the extraordinary meeting of the Supreme Council. That's exactly what happened today. One of the symbols and fundamental attributes of Ukraine’s independence is at stake, and I am talking about our national unit of bracelet. It is particularly regrettable that the National Bank, whose main function under the Constitution is to ensure the stability of the monetary unit. Let me remind you that the National Bank's primary function should contribute to the stability of the banking system, as well as within its powers of price stability. Objective figures show that Nazbank failed with his constitutional duties. We have a drop in national currency relative to other currencies of over 60 percent, which means billions of dollars from the NBA reserves have been spent on support, not by bracelets, but perhaps by nearby banks. Today we have in recent months a population outflow of tens of billions of dollars, even in spite of the ban on the National Bank, and this process continues. The liquidity of this financial system is in poor shape. All of these facts are another confirmation of the known truth: money is the blood of the economy. Today, because of Nazbank, our economy has a serious disease of blood, and this is where the whole area of the national economy begins. At the galloping dollar, prices for basic items of consumption are uncontrolled. When national currency leaps into inflation, the nation falls into poverty. That is why the Supreme Council has twice expressed distrust over the leadership of the National Bank. This is in fact a manifestation of the society’s deep distrust of the country’s main financial institution, since today’s collapse of bracelets is at least half due to mistrust and even panic among people. And the question for today is not exclusively about the personnel, but about the mistrust of the whole society in this institution. Unfortunately, this mistrust will have to be overcome for a long time, and normalizing the situation is impossible without the resignation of the National Bank’s leadership, and it has gone too far. Once again, the currency is trust. Trust is not just in the Supreme Council, but in the whole country. We will support efforts aimed at normalizing the work of the NBA, from whom such initiatives do not come. So for today, we already have three bills, to a large extent, those with registration, I've been looking at this question. This is also the Bill from the deputy of the Sánchenka of BUT, the Bill of Mikoli Janovića Azarova of the faction “Regions”, is the bill of the deputy of Horovski of the faction “Our Ukraine People’s Union”. They must be considered in an orderly manner. These changes need to be made to legislation that regulate the order of withdrawal or appointment of the leadership of the NBA by the Supreme Council in the event of a misunderstanding that is today. In addition, we call for effective use of existing legislation. First, the interim commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council on the verification of the activities of the National Bank during the financial crisis is to receive immediately, in accordance with the Act on the Status of the People's Deputy, all the necessary materials from the Attorney-General's Office and the Security Service, immediately and today. Secondly, if these law enforcement decisions are to be ignored by Parliament again, we have constitutional instruments to influence their leadership. Last one. I'm proposing that we call the President again by all the MPs. It is not in the direct legal effect of such an appeal. We need to draw the head of state's attention to the fact that the leadership of the NBA has completely lost confidence in society and in the politics that it holds in the chairs solely because of the President's kiss, sorry. It can't go on like this. The President, who took a stand with the Supreme Council and the government, is a political conflict. And the President, who doesn't count on objective economic and other social realities, is already a political catastrophe. We've been discussing gas issues for the last few weeks. And they asked themselves, could a gas deal be better? It was only the best possible question for us to be consolidated together, the whole of politics, which is what I'm calling for in this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u189	Kiselov Vasil Alexiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u190	Dear colleagues, there are no inexperienced people in this room, so I'm going to read a few papers without emotion, and you'll figure it out. Here I have in my hands a transcript of the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on December 11, 2007, at which, in response to a question posed by the Zarubinsky national deputy, Julia Volodymyrovna Timoshenko said: “I can only welcome the policies of the National Bank of Ukraine to strengthen the national currency. And I think our national currency is, practically, the best market trends to keep. And people are going to feel it very quickly, and they're going to be saving their money right in their bracelets. That is why it is more convenient today in all the exchange-rate processes that are taking place in the banking markets." I'm saying again, I've given a specific fact, and I think that our exporters, like millions of ordinary citizens, have been horrified to mention when they lost the government to these actions. Moreover, such actions have only exacerbated the negative effects of the crisis. Now I'm going to quote the conclusions. [[B in m in s a l in]] The hysterics should be counted in the hospital. Now, now, ladies and gentlemen, we need to listen to the findings of the Scientific and Experimental Authority, the Bordinyuk. I quote: “As evidenced by the analysis of the relevant provisions of Ukraine’s basic law, the Constitution does not entrust the Supreme Council of Ukraine with the authority to remove the authority of the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine and its first deputy, as well as to appoint the head of the National Bank of Ukraine. According to paragraph 18 of the first part of article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, only the Supreme Council is to be appointed and released from office as Head of the National Bank of Ukraine at the time of the submission of the President of Ukraine.” That's why I'm personally, distinguished national MPs, not taking part in this adventure. Because everyone in this room understands that the review of the decision on responsibility and resignation of the National Bank's leadership has been made for only one reason to remove the responsibility of Timoshenko's government for the state of affairs in the economy and in the social sphere. And I want the citizens of Ukraine to understand that too. And the fact that the cost of the dollar is almost 10 dollars depends primarily not on the Head of Nazbank, it is important to understand, but primarily on what has stopped the production of major budgeting sectors, including metallurgical and chemical industries. I've had two people here talking about it. And as everyone knows, nearly 53 percent of the budget, including monetary revenues, depends on the work of these two sectors. At the price of gas brought by Timoshenko from Moscow, however, it is not known when normal industrial work will be restored. And so you can forget about the step-by-step increase in pensions and salaries planned by the Yanukovich government, and you have to ask the government to at least pay for the pensions and salaries that are in place today, not to mention the increase. And to the end. It is obvious that there are serious shortcomings in the work of the National Bank, but I have cited examples that the government has not only stopped them, but has even indulged and supported them. Therefore, it is not necessary, my fellow officials, to seek out the prisoners-in-charge of the National Bank and, more importantly, to obtain the conclusions of the Court of Auditors, the Prosecutor's Office and other supervisory bodies, I propose, on behalf of the factions, to reject the proposed draft decision, to amend the existing legislation and to listen in one day and to the report on the activities of the National Bank of Ukraine and the report of the Government of Ukraine. And that'll be fair. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u191	Thank you. Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u192	Dear colleagues! After hearing information from the National Bank and other communications on this issue, is it obvious that the time has come for us to finally ask ourselves a question, and is it appropriate to use the word “Ukraine” in the title “National Bank”? I think that, judging by what we had today as information, it already suggests that the word “Ukraine” should be removed. Why? Because the Ukrainian banking system has refused to support the domestic producer, the banking system has become a tool in the hands of oligarchs to manipulate not only public opinion, but, above all, a tool for looting the country and impoverishing people. The banking system of financial speculation shows that it is now headed by Nitzbank that it is the Mafia clan that has the status of the state clan. This has been made possible because President Yushchenko himself is covering the subject. By the way, no matter what he does, he is necessarily in trouble for the country and for the common people. In analysing the situation, we must also understand that there has been a certain system of using the banking system to rob the country and impoverish the common people. I'd like to remind you, just literally. Trust pyramids. As soon as Yushchenko took over the leadership of the National Bank, the trust pyramids and the collapse of the national banking system led to the looting of tens of billions of people. The destruction of the bank “Ukraine” 1.8 billion bracelets was stolen from ordinary workers. Well, he's got one there on probation. Yuchenko did not get hurt for it. The withdrawal into offshore areas of $580 million, by practically order of Yushchenko, of the banking system by foreign banks, public enterprises accordingly, in fact, are in the hands of a foreign banking system because it is today that they are practically creditors for commercial banks in Ukraine. Commercial banks have obtained uncontrolled loans, which has led Ukraine to pay $30 billion annually. And that's another blow to our simple guards. These failures are huge in the public budget. This is a reduction in jobs and wages. It is also the fact that the assets invested are almost the property of foreign banks, including our Ukrainian land. Can a normal banking system be considered today if, in times of crisis, more than 30% of the loan rate? What economy would withstand such abuse, and what was the practical task of destroying the Ukrainian economy? Financial fraud related to the refinancing of banks. What these financial transactions are worth and what they do practically when they refinanced the Nadra Bank. They should have stolen the money from our voters, had to arrest all the property of the bank's owners, sold it and returned it to the people. And today, the same Mr. Firtas is not a gas machination, so banking machines use to recover not his money that he actually took from ordinary people, but government. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, recently, under the pretext of strengthening the bracelets, there has been a blow to exporters, that is, not only the domestic producer, but especially the individual, the jobs and wages. Next. Importers are lobbied, the so-called strengthening of the dollar. The activities of the National Bank are criminally in violation of the main task, the function of serving national interests and serving only the dollar. The destabilization of the energy market and the position that was in fact held in price policy also yielded results. I would like to draw your attention to your colleagues that, with your participation, the task of protecting our citizens from the banking mafia has not been realized when they have proposed that the loans that our citizens should repay be returned to the course that was at the time of the signing of these credit agreements. Prices continue to go up painfully for our citizens today, that is, the time has come for us to take radical measures at the state level against the banking system, with the banking mafia headed by Yushchenko today. What do we suggest? We propose that the National Bank Act be amended immediately and that the President be removed from the administration of the National Bank and that its activities be fully subject to the control of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Second. Decide on the establishment of a list of enterprises in cities and regions of Ukraine that will be funded as a matter of priority and the National Bank should send its representatives to commercial banks. And third, last. The credit rate should be set at 3-5 per cent today, and this would be the case.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u193	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u194	The credit rate today needs to be set at the state level at 3-5 per cent of this will provide employment and wages. And the last. I think no one has any doubt that the impeachment procedure must begin immediately against the President and remove him immediately from his post. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u195	Gricenko Anatoly Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u196	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! On more than one occasion, it was heard from this rostrum that “money loves silence. ” Well, it's probably private money and they love quiet and private business can spend it either in total silence or music, as it pleases. But when it comes to government finances, silence is evil! State finances should love transparency and accountability. For then, if we do not agree, we will mention another proverb: “There are lines in the quiet mud! ” These devils have already gone to the National Bank, by the way, both in government and in other structures. But here's what I'd like to say. A shared responsibility for the financial sphere, for the state of our monetary unit and the National Bank and the government, and for the responsibility of the government after the state of affairs next week. I spoke publicly, including from this rostrum, that I insist that at least 80 percent of the government officials be replaced because they can't work in crisis conditions. But today the issue is the National Bank and the National Bank must bear its own measure of responsibility. Because there are things he did without the government. Consider the first currency schemes that began in October when the bracelet jumped from 5.5 and 7.2 during one day. On the first day, I publicly said that if there was power in our country, the first day the Head of the National Bank would be arrested. He hasn't been arrested yet. Next. Over 40 billion dollars, which went not to the workplace, not to the enterprise, but through the foreign exchange market in the offshore, or in the sand, is a matter of direct responsibility to the National Bank. Third. We've just arrived at the adoption of the Budget Act, which has been defined by the Stability Fund as a lending mechanism through the National Bank, the government's spending on the priorities that we've identified with you. What Does It Do? National Bank? In unison with the President, he claims he will not obey this law! Who has the right not to obey the law that we have adopted here?Oh, my God! Before speaking his word to the Constitutional Court, can the Head of the National Bank take office? There is no moral right! I hope that even if you're on vacation right now, the best time is chosen, right? Even so, Vladimir Stemach listens to us, or he watches! I want to talk to him. If you have any responsibility and order left, please make a voluntary resignation application and don't let Parliament, the President and everyone else continue to run for office, and the President will put in another candidate. But we also need to evaluate the actions of the President. You can't double hear more than the constitutional majority of mistrust in the head of the National Bank not react. It's not the President's policy, it's an ostrich policy that pretends that nothing happens and hides its head in the sand, so you can't. I want our country to be ruled by the president, not by a man with ostrich psychology, because the issue is not going to end. I can't, by sharing what I said, vote for the projects that are being put in place today. Because, unfortunately, let the colleagues from BUT admit it, they called a virtually extraordinary meeting, but not to think about it professionally. And we cannot, in accordance with our law that organizes our work, raise another issue. And if they had thought about it and included changes to the National Bank Act, where it was clearly defined and there was such a project that if we expressed our mistrust, the President would automatically introduce another candidate. That would be the decision, and that's how we make a couple. And what we have offered from the vote, let us accept as invalid the appointment order. You know, just because the President does this completely absurd thing about judges doesn't mean that we have to do this. If the Council works unprofessionally and goes into a category of unhealthy thinking, then we can find a false act of independence, a law on nuclear-free status, which can go on, to accept Lenin's death as invalid, and so on, so we can get to the marzam, I'm sorry. We have to make a technological decision. Among the technological decisions now to rediscover our position on mistrust, and yet I hope that the President will have enough responsibility for the third time, and I hope even more so for the voluntary resignation of the Head of the National Bank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u197	The National Deputies of Ukraine are recorded for discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u198	Dear colleagues, we have 30 minutes to discuss the name of the National Deputies. People's deputy Yagoferov, faction of the Timoshenko Yulia Block. Seven national deputies were enrolled. The factions have already spoken, and this is now being delivered by the Ukrainian national deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u199	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Ladies and gentlemen! In my opinion, today we are considering an important issue and we should consider it from the point of view of what is going on as a crisis. I was present at the meeting on January 24th, which means the Alcev Metcombinate. The Alchev Metcombinate, in my view, is such a beautiful enterprise that has worked and done many of the work related to the energy economy, a very good business. But today it has significantly reduced the production volume of why, first of all, it supplies 90 percent of its production for export. And tell us who is to blame that today, Europe, America is not buying this product because they don't need it today. So about 50 percent of the currency that came from metallurgy and chemistry companies today is out of business. This is the basis for the crisis that took place. And what the National Bank is doing today is a disgrace. He was going to tell Anatoly Vasilovich, and he's the founder of the Prominvest Bank, that when his home bank was attacked by raiders and they didn't answer and he didn't say who they were and what they were punished for destroying the banking system and recognizing mistrust in Ukraine's banks from investors, I think it's also a shame that he couldn't protect his own bank. I wanted to say that according to article 19 of the Constitution, each person is responsible for his or her work. And today, only the National Bank is responsible for the exchange rate, and it is only the President who, as the only person, has an impact on the National Bank. I was going to say, Anatoly Vasilovich, it was or was not. Well, first of all, on December 18, this year, the dollar's rate was 10 in the $40. And on the 19th, when our president went on "Inter" and sat, as the king in the room, the course fell to 7 bracelets of 40 copies. It wasn't like that. So I think that we should accept this proposal that our representatives made to the commission about, that means checking out the bank's activities. And what I'm trying to say is that Shapoval's Anatoly Vasilovich, the thermometerwine only determines the temperature, and the bracelet course is determined by the National Bank. And a thermometer.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u200	Valerius Pisarenko faction “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko”. Roman Zvaric will be next. Arjovitin will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u201	Dear fellow countrymen! The question is clear, and I feel that even the discussion of today’s issue is repeated. We repeat that you and I have already approved twice the decision to mistrust this composition of the National Bank's government. We've already said twice that the exchange rate of the national currency is the subject of speculation on these shares that come in today and try to report on their activities. We've already said twice that refinancing is not about supporting the banking system, it's about refinancing it's about helping the oligarchs who are today setting up a scheme with the President. If there's no gas scheme coming out of RossUkrenergo, let's try to play with the scheme in order to spend today's bank money in order to pay 10 billion dollars to one bank today, while less money has been allocated to state banks all together. And if the private bank is thinking about how much to earn for itself, for example, the Ukreximbank and Ukreximbank would be able to think about how to protect the national producer today, how to protect the national economy of Ukraine today, how to help those who had jobs a year ago, had normal assets, had the ability to take credit, and now they are thinking, and how to pay the interest that banks each day impose on them, how to use today their deposits, which they put under, then it was said, normal interest, but today the banks are not giving them deposits that are falling apart because of the activities of this leadership of the National Bank, because today we have the world's biggest crisis all the time. But in doing so, the Head of the National Bank, for example, is resting somewhere and is not attending the first meeting of the Supreme Council. Because today the president, who is only allowed to go to a television show and talk about how good it would be to have the bracelet course at 8, although even experts in the financial world are saying that 6-6.50 for the Ukrainian currency is the threshold that must now exist. So it is clear to us today that there is a corrupt banking system in Ukraine. And in this corrupt system, there's one leader -- Victor Andrievich Yushchenko, who's not the first year running the entire financial system, and he gave the first result with the Bank "Ukraine". Now we've got the following banks and their names are already so often on TV that you and I have already become bigger financial experts than those who report on behalf of the National.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u202	Roman Zvaric refers the right to speak to Arjewitin, the faction “Our Ukraine – the People’s Saso-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u203	For Ukraine!, “Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense” faction. The honourable deputies, of course, today should be asked, not so much about the release of the Head of the National Bank and his deputy, but about the reasons for the loss of stability of Ukraine’s monetary unit. Ensuring the stability of Ukrainian money is only possible under two conditions. This is the political independence of the National Bank. Economically, it's a low level of shadow economy in Ukraine and a positive trade surplus. Neither the first nor the second were provided by all branches of government. In fact, the National Bank has lost its independence, and the shadow economy has so much money that another banking system can be built. So, as far as I'm concerned, fighting Stelmach or the National Bank Authority is just a fight against the consequences. But the reasons are quite different. And who will overcome the reasons? In my opinion, these are all branches of government. The Supreme Council did not support Bill 0851, and the President and his political power, which I belong to, failed to legally ensure the political independence of the National Bank. The Supreme Council did not support the bill, which provided for the formation of the National Bank's council, not on political grounds, but on a professional level. The Cabinet of Ministers, or a model of 2007, or a sample of 2008, formed such budgets that could not have affected the stability of the national currency. It was not clear when the transitional inflation rate in 2007 was 16.6 percent. Nearly 60 percent of the 2008 budget’s social orientation. The shadow economy is more than 50 percent of GDP. 16 billion-negative external economic trade surplus. More than 100 billion dollars in external economic debt, GDP decline, and so on, did not allow the stability of the monetary unit to be maintained exclusively by the National Bank. As far as the National Bank is concerned. In my opinion, the National Bank, in particular, I wanted to emphasize that the Board of the National Bank acted inadequately to the challenges that have led to today's situation. It is the National Bank that must stand in the way of the economic policies of governments, which cannot be called debt consumption. The National Bank had no right to remain silent when we continued to lend other economies and purchased 9 billion imported cars last year, bought 11 billion in the previous year, etc. But constant discussions around the National Bank are nothing more than a search for extremes in this national problem and a transfer of responsibility to the National Bank. I think we've been through this before when we had an inflation rate of 10,000 500. It is becoming increasingly evident that today’s Cabinet of Ministers, like the times of Kuchma, is increasingly looking forward to approaching the printing press. I think so.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u204	Thank you. Please, 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u205	I'm just doing it. So, first of all, the responsibility for this situation should not only be for the government of the National Bank but also for the Council of the National Bank. We have to adopt those bills that guarantee the independence of the National Bank, because this is the standard of central banks of all countries. And I share the position that the chairman of our committee expressed today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u206	Vladimir Bondarenko, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u207	Vladimir Bondarenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear friends, many things are said today, and various arguments are presented. But I would like to stop at a few myths that also sounded here. In particular, when one of the speakers started quoting the Prime Minister, and the quote is a few years old, I would like to ask him, and how does he feel that the Prime Minister should promote foreign currency or defend his own? By the way, it was when the bank policy was normal, it wasn't today. The other one. Our businesses are said to be out of business today. So they don't work because they don't get loans or they're going to pay off interest. And they don't work for another reason -- nowhere to work, the warehouses are dead. And it has to be admitted that your oligarches, who have this industry, did not care about the markets. It was all very well, and today the businesses are to blame, and people are tossed out of their guilt because they hid the money in Cyprus. So this is also a myth that is spreading today. There's another mythical situation where they say that today the economy really doesn't work. How can it work, once again, with such loans and an unknown course? The same drugs that cost huge money today are so expensive that those who bring them here don't know what the course is and what money they're going to have to buy new parties abroad because Ukrainian drugs are not yet being produced. I have this feeling that today the National Bank is working in a system of government discreditation and personal struggle with Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, as Prime Minister, whose inspiration is the President of Ukraine, who is seen as their main opponent. What I'm saying is that today there's information from cities that the President's Secretariat is about to give instructions not to pay taxes in January so that they won't be able to pay their pensions. I think the Ukrainian Security Service, if it worked not for Balou and Pukshina but for the state, would reveal these facts and make them public. It's the same National Bank. All his actions are directed against the state. Remember when Naftogaz was looking for money to settle with Russia and Russia warned: “Don’t count, we won’t make new deals and cover gas.” Yes, by keeping our mediator “Rosukreenergo”, our rival friends, who call themselves opponents, are now completely in power and are resolving these issues, including through the National Bank. The National Bank knocked down the bracelet, and Naftogaz was looking for a place to buy a few billion dollars to settle with the Russians. If I hadn't bought, Naftogaz would not be operating on Ukraine's market today, but would have worked on their “Rosukreenergo”, which feeds this political power and those who contribute to it in Ukraine, the President of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u208	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? At the Conciliation Council, we agreed that we would continue our morning session until the issue was resolved. At the end of the discussion, the agenda will be exhausted. So I ask that we now vote that we work without interruption until the debate is concluded. Please vote. [[13:55:23]] For 231 Decision taken. Please, by the factions. Region Party – 0, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko” – 154, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” – 31, Communist faction – 27, “Clocle of Lithuania – 19. The People's Deputy of Peru is referring the right to speak to Viacheslav Kirilenko, the faction "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u209	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “For Ukraine!” Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! I'm certainly going to protect both Stelma and the National Bank, but that's not how I'm going to protect Prime Minister Timoshenko and the government, because to pretend that all the problems with the bracelet is Stelma's personal fault, it means to force Ukraine to have another scarecrow and another lie about who is now impeding the Prime Minister to work on saving the economy. Therefore, the parliamentary group “For Ukraine!” believes that today’s discussion, initiated by the “Timoshenko Block”, is not aimed at stabilizing the monetary unit, not at improving monetary policy, but at diverting society’s attention from the beginning of delays in salaries and pensions. That's the main question for a simple person right now. There's no income in the budget, there's nothing to say to the government, so we need everyone to talk about Stella and the National Bank. So we think that the Minister of Economy, the Minister of Finance, the Prime Minister should say how to fill the income part of the budget, and why did only 35 percent of the income plan reach the budget on January 21st? And that's twice that last year. And the fact that the Butian faction is reacting so fiercely right now only confirms my rightfulness, which is alive, and as I'm telling the truth, not the lie that you're used to. Next. You can make a lot of regulations by law and change Stelmach to Ivanenko, Petrenko or Sidorenka, I'm not saying that you're not stabilizing the course, or you're destabilizing it with this approach. But we have to respect the Constitution. We know that there is a constitutional order for candidates to be released and appointed as the head of Nazbank. So if the esteemed colleagues of the new coalition want to have two heads of Nazbank as there were two general prosecutors. Then vote on such decisions as you have made today. It's the least irresponsible approach to the economy and to the stability of the same bracelet that you're so worried about and supposedly saving. You can make as many appointments as you have made today. But if you say, "Let's cancel the ruling of December 16, 2004" -- when Tihypak is all here -- and BUT, and "Our Ukraine" -- was released at his request, let's cancel the decision of December 8, 2004 on constitutional reform, finally stabilize the government and put order in the country. Really funny? So you're going to propose a double standard to any approach. We're against that and we're warning you from that.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u210	People's deputy Corge is handing over the right to speak to Nestor Schufrich. Dear colleagues, here comes Korge, then Carmazin, Kendzior, then Žebrovsky. That's how I feel. Please find out with the Secretariat. I'm looking at what's on my mind. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u211	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u212	I want to do it again. Come look at me, please. I, my esteemed colleagues, look, it's written, "Korge." He's giving Shufresche the right to speak. Next comes Karmazin, Kendzer, Žebrovsky. And then there's Belarus, there's Pudov and there's other distinguished national MPs. Please state the time from the beginning.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u213	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Thank you for the opportunity to speak. I think we are witnessing a very interesting situation in Parliament today. Of course, today we must demand the responsibility of all. In what is happening today with the course, with the financial situation in the country, the government as a whole is to blame. But the Council's objectivity must be acknowledged that, first of all, the actions of the National Bank of Ukraine, its leadership have provoked the destabilization of our national currency and, as a result, are complex, difficult for our national economy and the social situation of our citizens. We know that people today cannot repay loans solely because the Nazbank leadership today lobbies the interests of individual banks rather than the general policy. But come on, let's face it, who are the people's policies of the National Bank now depend on? First of all, we're with you people's deputies and the President of Ukraine. I want to say that we have honoured our duty to the people of Ukraine, and we have called twice upon the President, whom we consider to be individual President, to make him constitutional. a duty and an appropriate application for the release of Stelmacha. Unfortunately, he didn't do it, and now there's another decision on Yuschenk's responsibility, of course it makes sense, but I suggest, let's build up courage, let's not stop at half a step. Because as long as Yushchenko is in power, neither the Supreme Council nor the authorities in general will be able to work peacefully in Ukraine. Go over that ruby. Come on, give me your votes, and there'll be more than enough of them here to start and finish the impeachment procedure. And then the person who is destabilizing the situation in the country today will be held accountable. Of course, today it would be possible to smile at the decisions that are proposed to be taken regarding the annulment of the decision to appoint Stelmacha and the deletion of the decision to release Tihypak, but let us remember who first instituted such things in the history of an independent Ukraine? This is Yushchenko himself, who, by his decrees, annulled the decrees concerning the appointment of judges of the Constitutional Court, which annulled the decrees concerning the appointment of general prosecutors. That's why my predecessor is supposed to appeal to his patron, namely, the Yushchenka. You know, of course, that's how we can communicate with the Soviet Union, but that hamster that you, Mr. Shapovalov, have demonstrated today must be punished here. [[Applause]] And I think by your speech you've added the necessary votes today to free you and send you away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u214	George Carmazin, the faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u215	Yuri Carmazin. Honorable National Deputies, reverend Ukrainian people! Today, they are looking for answers to many of the questions that still matter to the Ukrainian people. First of all, the question arose today: Where are the Ukrainian gold reserves? Ukrainian, not National Bank. Who Can Answer? The next commission doesn't give papers to the Court of Auditors, to Parliament, to Parliament, even credit agreements don't give to the House of Auditors, which we've heard about here, and they haven't analyzed them yet, and they haven't been able to report to us. I'm asking those who are self-involved in the leadership of the U.S.S.A. today, these boys are irresponsible: do you understand how you could give documents to IMF professionals? Do you have any form of admission? Is it a secret document? How does this happen to us? They're sitting on the bus in Volodymyr! Is that okay? Here. Is it normal for a U.S. ambassador together?Oh, my God! And here, in the end, the IMF is given documents, and the MPs, the Ukrainian Parliament, behind whom is the people they ask, give nothing! So, dear friends, I think we should get this over with. And to end it very seriously. In time, Nazibank responded to the raid on Prominestbank, which led to the mistrust of the population this time. Secondly, the National Bank, contrary to the Banking and Banking Act, does not respond to the fact that banks do not perform 10 percent or more of their outstanding liabilities within 15 days. Did you have something to do? Assign temporary administrations. A dozen administrations had already been appointed and reported to us now. You didn't do it. Then you let people get mugged that's happening right now. A specific letter from Jurkevich, East, Lviv region, three thousand euros is in the “Prominestbank” and says, “Give!” is given 200 euros after the day. For a week, more faithfully, 200 euros, after you've been told, get in your bracelets first. And so in all the banks. Here's the evidence. Why do you not respond to citizens’ complaints? Where is the guarantee of the constitutional rights of independence of citizens? Why is he sitting and quiet? Why didn't he come here once? Then why did Stellam come to the President's meeting, not the Supreme Council? For all of this, we would have to ask the question in a very different way. I think we'll put him up. But, dear friends, we need to resolve very serious and global issues. First. Why they did not respond to the fact that most of the loans granted to natural persons were loans for the purchase of foreign products. Because that's how we financed who? All the other countries. What's going on today?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u216	Thirty seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u217	Give everyone a minute, then vote, come on, give me a minute, finish. Dear friends, why are we not asking questions that are fundamental today? How are we going to get out of this? Whether there were banks that were refinanced, there were owners of foreign countries. And I say they were. It was. And that's the root of the problem, why you're afraid to reveal those owners. So, Your Honor, this bank is due to go, but unfortunately, I've been waiting for Victor Andryovich today. Victor Andryovich, obviously, and you and Stelmach, he was your deputy, and together you're gonna have to go. I'll vote for the rulings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u218	Jaroslav Kenzior, the faction of our Ukraine, the People's Self-Defense, conveys the right to speak to Žebrovski. That's what you do next. Jaroslav Kenzior is referring the right to speak to Paul Zebrowski. Two rules just go. Grabrovsky's next.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u219	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I don't think there will be any people in this room who will thank the National Bank and praise the National Bank for the actions it has done. Today, of course, there is a question about the opacity of the refinancing. So Mr. Shapovalov did not answer the question of how the refinancing was allocated to the banks. And you knew what question you'd be asked about the Nadra bank, you could clearly, if there's nothing to hide, tell you where that money went from the refinancing and how. These are the most painful questions, and for more than a month, two months, it's just that this bank's refinancing issues are constantly being raised by all the deputies. And not to answer, it's basically to bring shame on yourself and shame on the National Bank again. Clearly, there's a problem today about the foreign exchange interventions that are taking place between the bank, how transparent they are, and how much the auction sales and other sales you're making are, let's say, stimulating that there's no speculation in the foreign market. I'm convinced that the President's decision had to be made on the basis that those banks that were making currency speculation were to be punished because whoever was actually going out to buy currency and not confirmed was their foreign exchange purchases, and loan repayments, those bankers were to be held accountable. But for today, my friends, I think what's important is that the National Bank can be abandoned, you didn't have to stop by, you had to say who's to blame, and you had to come and say what to do? What can an average citizen do? What should an entrepreneur do today? What exactly is the financial system in Ukraine to do? And if, let's say, in those 20 minutes or 25, the report would be divided into two. The first is the answers to the most painful questions that are constantly accumulated in society. And the second question is, the National Bank's proposal on the way out of that crisis situation, I don't think there were any screams or screams. However, I am sad today that hearing a report from the head of the National Bank has turned into a political show. Because those people, those fellow MPs who initiated today’s extracurricular session, were in fact unwilling to carry out professional, serious work with legal consequences. Those two or three decisions you're proposing, they're unconstitutional, they're legally worthless. And you knew that clearly. And when you were in this room, when you were collecting signatures, you had to make an ad hoc hearing decision even without the Committee on Financial and Banking Activities of the Law, after that, on the basis of this Law, you had to make a decision. Is it if you wanted to do something? But if you wanted to find out what your relationship with the President was, you are doing so today. And what we have is a political show that leads to it again. You're not the only one who's throwing dirt at the President. Perhaps he, much in that criticism, is and needs to be criticized. But you're destroying the power itself. I'm sorry! When a young MP, 30 years of age, “not tying up a dog’s tail”, accuses him of calling someone a thief, calling someone a “corruption worker”, then, my dear friend, you call yourself! And if you think after that they will respect the Supreme Council, Prime Minister?Oh, my God! But all power will be called “the thieves”, “the corrupters” and so on! No need to “shock ” the air, but we need to take real steps, we need to take real action that will lead to a solution! Today, of course, there is no way to avoid the fact that the exchange rate is, how much money is in the currency, and how much money is in the currency, and how much is in the currency that will be supported. Or because of the National Bank's foreign exchange interventions, if it comes in less and more, or because of the devaluation of the national currency. This is a professional conversation, this is a serious conversation! And without the economy, without the government's position to talk about currency stability, you know, it would be easier if you could take someone off and then turn the economy back, or if you were to make a difference on some currency, it would probably not be easier, and we would just do what we did and live happily ever after. It's "manilovska", my friends! That doesn't say anything today! Look at you! Why are we today a budget that is not being implemented and will not be implemented, I say again, this budget is “Popanappalo” – “Take it, I’ll draw it for myself”! And otherwise this budget can't be called! For some reason today, the National Bank, the representatives of the economic bloc of the President's Secretariat, the Ministry of Finance, the budgetary committee, the other committees, have not sat down or actually developed a budget that needs to be developed to benefit the state. When we clearly calculate the reality of the budget's revenue, when we clearly calculate the budget's expenditure and figure out how much money we throw out to start the economy in Ukraine, in order to support Ukraine's economy. This, my friends, should be taken seriously. There's nothing here but signatures. There'll be nothing here because of the screams. As a result, once again, these draft decisions that you have proposed are legally worthless, even shamefully put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u220	Twenty seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u221	In view of the need to remove them, we are now seriously preparing for a meeting and only then make decisions. I call for common sense, and if someone did not do the right thing, it does not mean that you should commit a crime or a crime. I propose today by this discussion that we complete our work and move on to real steps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u222	Dear colleagues, the discussion is closed. Dear colleagues, now for one minute, from the procedure, let's sum it up, and then from the decision-making procedure, we'll write it down and make a statement, okay? Dear national MPs, the emotional debate that has taken place today, an extremely complex question that affects every person and I am convinced that people don't care who is responsible, the President, the Government, the National Bank or the Supreme Council for the reasons that the bracelet is falling and the credits cannot be served, they don't care, they blame it. And then we have to make serious adequate decisions when we take up these issues. Regrettably, the Supreme Council of Ukraine continues to be a place of matrimony. We speak out loud, we don't have enough arguments, we follow the principle: the argument is weak – raise the voice. The thing is, Ukraine is balancing, let's actually talk about it, on the verge of survival, and we're bringing it all back to a banal, Ukrainian, to war, and we have a very difficult situation today, and it's just that there's been no attack on Ukraine outside. We need, honourable colleagues, I urge, especially in the decision-making process, to demonstrate a serious and responsible approach, the issue of functioning, the effective functioning of the financial system -- it's a matter of survival and the death of Ukraine, and we obviously need to talk about it. We see here a conflict of interest that is affecting society. We cannot agree, and obviously we must say this with all seriousness, that the National Bank publicly states that it will not comply with the State budget rules, they may not be implemented when the Constitutional Court's decision is reached, and now the law is, signed, please comply with it and sue in due course. The independence of the National Bank of Ukraine will, above all, discredit the policies pursued by the National Bank of Ukraine and the basis for such critical assessments will be more than sufficient. The National Bank's function: to ensure the stability of the bracelet is today a big fiction because the bracelet has fallen or is not the biggest in the world. That's a fact. How Can People Answer? And instead, we have an increase in payments for people's loans, which is 30 billion consumer loans, if I'm not mistaken. Inflation and inflationary expectations continue to remain high, sadly, we have not had a serious discussion on this issue. Dear colleagues, when the Supreme Council of Ukraine makes a decision with the National Bank's assessment, yes, that's more or less a political assessment, but I am convinced that the Head of State has to listen to Parliament as it does in all countries of the world. And let's think about the previous practice when both the government and the President and the faction leaders were meeting, at least they were giving advice on personnel issues, and after that meeting they came out with the idea that they had consulted and then made decisions. We don't even have a dialogue today. We talk about each other like enemies. We live in the same state, and we have the same responsibility. I am convinced that this practice of disgrace must be stopped. And I am convinced that we must have a dialogue, and this dialogue is to take place here at the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We need to have a clear definition of price policy and exchange rate policy. So that people can plan their lives so that there will be an equilibrium in Ukraine. We don't have an understanding, and today we don't have an understanding of what's going on with the bracelets, the dollar and the banks, the Ukrainian banks, what's their next destiny. An attack on a bracelet is an objective pattern, a planned course, are these the circumstances in the world? There was no clear - cut work on this issue, not from the National Bank, but from those who took over the patronage of the National Bank of Ukraine. So let's say objectively that the reputation of the National Bank today does not promote trust in the currency of our national bracelet. What should we do about it? Make the decision of the Supreme Council if it doesn't sound sad to someone. And let's think about that, too. And we're not going to protect each other, we're going to attack the others. We will not restore our trust in the National Bank in today’s approach, just as we did in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We just don't have a choice. Dear colleagues, I'd like us to act in the right bank without referring to the fact that the President of Ukraine is violating the Constitution. But what I want to say is, what are the double standards? You remember that the Supreme Council of Ukraine in its time for a gas deal and an opaque approach in 2006, if I am not mistaken, resigned the government. But then the new Supreme Council overturned that decision. Please tell me, did she have the right to cancel this decision? Not a little one. But I canceled. Today we are taught because let us not violate the Rules. Let's do it right. And for the rest, dear colleagues. First of all, we need to make radical changes to the National Bank Act, taking into account the situation. Because the National Bank Act took into account and absoluteized only those positions of foreign practice in the functioning of central banks, which are about the freedom and independence of the state institution. Other important aspects of the legal regulation of the status of central financial institutions have in fact been ignored. And the result of this trend is the unprecedented independence of the National Bank. So first of all, from the beginning of the next session, we need to regulate the public-law status of the National Bank. It shouldn't be a state in a state. This institution should operate in the coordinate system and be as independent as possible where it needs to be. And first of all, we have to make this decision, taking into account the discussion that we have had, we need to consider the draft regulations that have been made on this issue. Yes, dear colleagues, I understand your dissatisfaction, but we are obliged to consider it. So I'm going to have to look into the order of arrival, the registration of these regulations. Now, before you consider the matter of making a decision, please register. Please note, please record the procedure for consideration of draft decisions. Please sign in. Five minutes. Please put the names of the national MPs on the board. People's Deputy Oilynik, faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u223	Please pass the word to Ivan Grigorovitch Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u224	Please, Ivan Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u225	Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, unfortunately, has to say that you have accurately told the Conciliation Council meetings of factions leaders, unfortunately we have not been able to reach a common agreement to vote in the same majority as we voted on December 26 and January 14. Well, everything in secret is said to become clear sooner or later. So we really support you that we are now forced to vote on several decrees. Decision 3647 is proposed to be withdrawn. I am one of the authors of this decree. And to vote on the next three rulings that you and I discussed at the Conciliation Council. Place each of them separately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u226	Viacheslav Kirilenko, faction of our Ukrainian People's Self-Defense, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u227	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “For Ukraine” MP. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, you said it right. And the discussion was emotional. And, of course, if there were governmental approaches, it would be safe for the Chief of the Supreme Council, the Prime Minister and the President to find time to agree to the release of the acting Head of the National Bank and the appointment of the new Head of the National Bank. And as always, it's all in vain. One faction has collected signatures and requires everyone to be released, and whom she will appoint. That's not how it works. That's why we can't vote for any new name, because we don't know when and how much it turns on the printer to print new money, so the Prime Minister will pay off pensions that are now running out. And what banks is the new head of Nazbank going to refinance? Maybe the same thing will happen now? Only the name of the bank is different and the host is different? That is why we believe that it is inappropriate to make decisions now, and we wait for Parliament to determine when the government's report will be on late payment of salaries and pensions. This is our insistence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u228	Nestor Schuffrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u229	Thank you. You know, it was strange to hear the predecessor speak. We are pleased about our responsibility requirement for all authorities, starting with Yushchenk, that part of “Our Ukraine” has joined, which requires the responsibility of the government. Although, frankly, from a human point of view, it sounded a little strange. But despite the circumstances discussed, we realize that there are, unfortunately, no votes available today regarding the resignation of the government. This is an exclusive part of the Party of Regions and a part of Our Ukraine. But if we unite, we will be able to stop the speculation of the chief prosecutor today in all the turmoil in Ukraine, because the vote for his impeachment here is already under four hundred. So today, I propose not to look for secondary responsibilities but to take the lead in stopping the collapse of the country. As for the regulations that exist today, I said that today, if you vote on them, you may be in favor of the Soviet Union. Although this practice was introduced by Yushchenk. And let him wear it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u230	Zabzaluk People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u231	Please pass the word to Lášk, national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u232	Oleg Lazko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u233	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. One of the previous speakers quoted Prime Minister Julius Volodymyrovný Timoshenko as saying in 2007 that the national monetary unit of the bracelet was stable and worth saving. That is exactly what Timoshenko said. Unfortunately, in 2008, the National Bank of Ukraine did everything to make the bracelet unstable, and so that people who had savings in their purses would lose. On the contrary, the National Bank’s policy has led the dollar to a wide flow of the market into the country, and people have become hostages of the dollar, and today they are reaping the benefits of this policy. So I think that in the case of change, and there's no doubt that most people in the Supreme Council care about people's interests, if we change the leadership of the National Bank, we can stabilize the National.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u234	Alexander Omelchenko, microphone, please. The "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u235	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! As we know in the hall, and we know all of Ukraine, the entire people of Ukraine know that for the situation today, the critical state with the national currency is the constitutionally responsible National Bank, Stelma. And it's not true that Stella and the bank are independent of the Constitution. They depend on the President of Ukraine. So today the responsibility lies with the National Bank, Stelma, the President of Ukraine, Yushchenk, and the Government of Ukraine, Timoshenko. And the Supreme Council, in that case, must take responsibility for us to be accountable to the people. And so I ask to vote in favour of draft Decree 3647 and then in turn.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u236	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u237	Please, give me five seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u238	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u239	To vote on the national bank today, to give the people some hope, faith and will. In the next two weeks, we will dedicate ourselves to the President and the Prime Minister. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u240	Hanna Herman, faction of the Party of the Regions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u241	Thank you, Mr. Head. I would like to point out that today the citizens of Ukraine have paid their money again for the great tusk in the Supreme Council. The coalition has not agreed on its actions; the coalition does not know what it wants from this meeting. The only thing she wants to do is get BUT to blame for the economic collapse of Ukraine and the President, and the National Bank, they're looking for the culprit, and the Ukrainians have to pay for it. I don't think today's session was absolutely necessary, it was Julia Timoshenko's adventure. And we have to apologize to the Ukrainians for what we did here. The only good offer was Mr. Carmazin, who said he needed to resign to go along with Stelma, and the President, let's add Julia Timoshenko, and the House will vote 450 votes, and there will be order.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u242	Alexander Lavrinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u243	Dear colleagues, we are now proposing two draft rulings for the vote. Both of these regulations provide for norms that, I would say, may already be the birthmark of an orange authority that came into power illegally in 2005. Legal ignorance, I'd say even legal cynicism, those standards that were originally established exclusively from Banking Street, today this virus came into this hall. I think that the abuse of the country's superior representative body should be stopped. Common sense and law is the only thing that can save Ukraine in this crisis. If this is the way we want to take over the National Bank today, tomorrow we will take over another government agency by state authorities, we will never have order in the country, and there will never be any prospect. In a legal way, we have to bring responsibility to all officials who are involved in either destabilizing the currency exchange rate, or falling national production, or any other issue. To act outside the right in the way that the present president has given birth in Ukraine is an act against the people and against Ukrainian law. I would ask the Ukrainian Parliament not to use these shameful methods.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u244	Dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts. Now let's move on to our own regulations. Those suggestions that you have made, Your Honor, let me say once again that we have held meetings of the Conciliation Council, I have tried to propose such a compromise for which the entire Supreme Council of Ukraine would vote. Sadly, she did not find support. So we're going to vote on what's officially introduced. With regard to the government’s report proposals, you and I have made decisions, honourable colleagues, that the fifth number will be considered on the initiative of 164 deputies on the responsibility of the government. This decision has already been made and we can ask all the questions there. If there is a wish before -- 150 signatures -- a clear formulation on which to collect an emergency meeting -- it will be convened within three days. The same is true of the proposal made by Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich in connection with the resignation of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. With regard to the proposal made by Hanna Mikolayevna Herman that the coalition did not agree on its position and so forth. Dear colleagues, we are holding a meeting on the initiative of 155 national deputies. And so the initiators -- they usually make the relevant draft regulations. If they were to be alternative, it's obvious that we'd have to consider them. At this point, they're gone. So we're going to look at it according to the registration of draft regulations. Draft Decree 3647, which was now proposed by Alexander Alexander Omelchenko. This project cannot be considered because the authors of the draft decision have called it off. The point is, when the initiators call it off, it's not being considered. Therefore, honourable colleagues, draft Decree 3647 has been revoked. Now, the next draft of the decree you've been given is your honorary colleagues, please pay attention! - 3650. The author is the national deputy of Olijnik. And I'm going to read you this project. Dear colleagues, I'll give it to you. May I have your attention, please? Well, you don't want to hear it. There it needs to be read, since the inaccuracies of the text are inaccurate because the Supreme Council did not remove the head of the National Bank, so the Supreme Council of Ukraine did not consider the matter of the first deputy. And there's this in the preamble. So let me read that you deliberately decide whether to vote or not. I'll read it. Well, dear colleagues, I'm going to read what was discussed on the Conciliation Council, and there's been some clarification. And it's your job to read it. “The draft Decision of the Supreme Council on the responsibility of President Yushchenko Viktor Andryovich of Ukraine for the situation in the financial and credit sphere of Ukraine. In view of the fact that the President of Ukraine has twice ignored the demands of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the release of Stelmach Vladimir Seminovich from office of head of the National Bank of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides: firstly, to acknowledge that the President of Ukraine, Yushchenko Viktor Andrijavić, has been inactive in a situation that has arisen in the financial and credit sector of Ukraine, has taken on a personal responsibility for the gross misappropriation of Ukraine's monetary unit, numerous speculations in foreign exchange and mortgage markets, failure by commercial banks to meet their obligations to investors, significant abuse in the process of refinancing of commercial banks, the complete lack of control of the National Bank for commercial banks, which has led to a significant deterioration of citizens' well-being. Second, this Order takes effect from the moment it is adopted. I have done the will of the Conciliation Board, which has made appropriate proposals for the revision of the Order. With this in mind, I am voting on the approval of the draft Decree as a decree, registration number 3650. Please vote. [[14:36:15]] For 227 I'd like your attention for 200. Dear colleagues, I request your attention, for a decree of 227.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u245	Now, one minute, by the factions, please. Region Party 4, Timoshenko Yulia Block 154, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" 23, Communist faction -27, Lithuanian Block - 19. Viacheslav Kirilenko, microphone, please. Then Catherinechuck, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u246	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “For Ukraine!” Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters, is a classic example of how the Prime Minister builds politics. It is enough to make a decision, to declare guilty all over the President and to ensure that the Head of the Supreme Council read this decree. I have a question. Don't scream, please. Vladimir Mikhailovich, call them to peace, call for peace, for they are accustomed to shouting only, not the matter of doing. I have a question: did Parliament decide by this regulation on the issue of the stability of the bracelet, or did Parliament decide by this regulation on the issue of repayment of loans and repayments of loans? Obviously not. And the third question that I'm going to ask is, if you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, put all the responsibility on the President, and by using the word "inaction" in this way you start the impeachment procedure, you tell us directly and tell us to react accordingly. And tell me, who are your allies? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u247	Dear colleagues, I have announced Nicholas Catherinechuck. If they continue to insist, they will have to be recorded. And then I'll answer your questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u248	The European Party of Ukraine, the faction "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense". I am referring to the decree that has been voted on. I voted in favour of this decree. The only thing that bothers me today is what does "personal responsibility" mean? Responsibility must be criminal, administrative, but personal responsibility. Well, we understand that the Supreme Council is doing what it's supposed to do -- it's making political determination on this issue, because unfortunately, the Supreme Council can't directly influence the National Bank. So, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I supported your constant emphasis that we need a serious discussion in the Supreme Council. A closed meeting of the Supreme Council, and this is the kind of closed session that should address such matters as the National Bank. Now, I still don't think the National Bank has the necessary impact today in terms of the crisis on commercial banks. That is why I would like to ask, Vladimir Mikhailovich, a protocol commission, that we have considered the Law on the National Bank of Ukraine, the fifth or sixth number, and given the opportunity.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u249	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please, come on. We're going through the discussion again. Appropriate suggestions or warnings from the mouth of Viacheslav Anatoliyovich Dear colleagues, I am forced to organize the work of the Supreme Council whether I like it or not. And I have to announce what agreement has been reached on the Conciliation Council. I don't like much of anything personally, but let's at least have a dialogue so that the support base is expanded here. With regard to the beginning of the impeachment procedure of the President of Ukraine, I want to say, if you are interested in my personal position, I have strongly opposed this approach and have repeatedly spoken publicly about it. I don't see the reasons and I don't see the possibility to take any initiative in this logical conclusion. As for a closed meeting, let us make a decision when necessary, and we will hold the next meeting. But today we have acted in the way the Rules, 155 signatures, within three days according to the issues raised, need to be addressed. They did. So let's move on to the following draft regulations. That's 3651. I'm not going to read this draft decision because it's given to you and the proposals that I've made before that draft decision to normalize and bring it into line with the requirements of the Rules and Law are not supported. Clearly, then, I do not need to read it. Does everyone have this draft decision? I am voting on the basis of the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine “On the activities of the National Bank of Ukraine during the financial crisis and the state of implementation of the decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on these issues”, registration number 3651. [[14:41:37]] For – 226 Decision taken. The factions, please. The Party of the Regions is 1, the Yulia Timoshenko Block is 154, our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense 26, the Communist faction is 26, the Lithuanian Block is 19. Now, if you'll have your attention. What are some warnings? I can't see. No warning? I'm voting on the draft decision. What, what? Take down the vote. Please. Dear colleagues, here is a warning to note that the report was the executive responsibility of the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine. I made such an offer. Sadly, she did not receive any support at all. But given that this is a completely undeniable fact to be taken into account, please consider the report of the Acting Head of the National Bank of Ukraine. Since there's no objection, I don't see any objection, I'm voting on the adoption of draft decree 3651 as the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please make a decision. [[14:43:15]] For 227 Please calm down. For the 227, the decision is made. The factions? Please. The region's party is zero, the Yulia Timoshenko Block is 155, our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense 26, the Communist faction is 27, the Lithuanian Block is 19. Now, dear colleagues, another decree of 3652. It's given to you, is it a draft decision? Is there a project? Should You Read? I'm voting on the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, registration number 3652 as a decree. [[14:44:29]] For-183 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues! 3647, decree withdrawn from consideration, Your Honor. Dear colleagues! What are the observations? So, dear colleagues, please. What?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u250	Since Vladimir Mikhailovich asked about the remark, I want to say again, what is now being voted in this session room is not only the abuse of laws and the Constitution of Ukraine, but the fundamentals of law in general. And so it's demonstrated that in this country, even the only legislature doesn't respect the rules of law that it accepts. We can only expect in these circumstances that there will ever be a system of politics in this country. It is a disgrace to politicians today in the Supreme Council to make such decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-26-m0.u251	Dear National Deputies! Dear National Deputies! May I have your attention, please? Let me remind you that according to the calendar plan adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the third session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the sixth call for this week is made by the national deputies working in the districts. Today, we held an extraordinary meeting at the request of 155 national deputies. The next plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will take place on Tuesday, February 3, at 10 a.m. The next meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed.
