ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:14]] [[Registration of Ukrainian National Deputies]] Cards were registered in the 424 national deputies in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the birthday of our colleague Kostenko Yuri Ivanovich. Let's welcome him and wish him the best. [[Applause]] I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in plenary meetings on June 11, 2009. 30 questions of the agenda have been considered. As a result, 12 laws and five decrees were passed, three bills were adopted on a basis, five bills and one draft decree were rejected. As a result of a review of the President's proposals, the President's veto has been overturned by one law, one law has been rejected, i.e. the President's veto has not been overtaken. Honorable national MPs, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules, take 30 minutes on Friday to announce their requests. Allow me to make inquiries that have come from the national deputies of Ukraine and have been made in an orderly manner. A request was received from the national deputies of Ukraine. Igora KALETNIKA to the President of Ukraine on the dismissal of the head of the Herson District Administration Boris Selinkov for systematic land abuse, illegal budget spending, and damage to the state in particular. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. Please vote. [[10:03:05]] For 259. Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:03:25]] For 297 Decision taken. Jury Prokopčuk to the President of Ukraine regarding the failure of the Ukrainian Ministry of Defence to perform the tasks of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regarding the withdrawal from the state-owned state-of-the-art crisis of the "Early Automotive Repair Plant", the repayment of annual debt on payment of salaries to factory workers. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:04:08]] For 289 Request supported. I would like to vote on this motion to the President of Ukraine. [[10:04:27]] For 294 Decision taken. Groups of National Deputies to the President of Ukraine on the undersufficiency of budgetary programmes from the creation of the modern system of notification and communication necessary for the elimination of emergency situations. [[BONDAREN, BARKS AND OTHERS]] I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:05:03]] For 288 Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:05:24]] For 299 Decision taken. Groups of National Deputies to the President of Ukraine on the need for an immediate referral by the President of Ukraine to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the release from office of the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine, Vladimir Stelmah, in connection with the failure to secure the stability of Ukraine's monetary unit, the inability of banks to pay deposits and dividends to investors and the gross violation of their constitutional rights and the failure of the authority of the banking system, and in the event of failure to implement such measures, the recognition by the President of Ukraine of the personal liability for damages incurred by citizens and the banking system. [[CARMASINE, DRY]] I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:06:34]] For 324 Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:06:53]] For 319 Decision taken. John Hare and Jaroslav Jojik to the President of Ukraine on the rehabilitation of the Hero of the Soviet Union, John Kilushik. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:07:24]] For-126 Request not supported. LEFT BIRJECA to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the legality of participation in the adoption of decisions of the National Council of Ukraine on television and radio broadcasting of members of the National Council, whose terms of office have expired. Oleg POLIČUKA to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the status of the consideration of parliamentary requests by officials of the central executive authorities. Andrija SKILLA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the inappropriate response to the parliamentary appeal by the Ministry of Fuel and Energy of Ukraine regarding the reduction in the production of hydrocarbons in the Lviv region. VICTOR SINCHENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the design and construction of the path and the road around the city of Bojarka Kyivo-Svetoshin district of Kiev. Vladimir YAVORISKI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Head of State Administration, for the publication of information on the number of residences of the President of Ukraine in Ukraine and the amount of money spent from the State budget on their maintenance in the face of a severe economic crisis. Mr. Vladimir JAVORISKI to the Prime Minister on the intention of the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine to remove from the curriculum the compulsory course "History of Ukraine". Vladimir YAROSCHUKA to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the illegality and unreasonableness of the Ministry of Transport and Liaison Order No. 610 of 29 May 2009. Eugene Kirilczuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the violation of current legislation by the embassies of Romania and the passive position of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs regarding the protection of the interests of the domestic host. Mr. Komara to the Prime Minister on the issue of financing cultural institutions. Michael KOSIVA to the Prime Minister on the possibility of corruption in the Ministry of Environmental Protection of Ukraine. SERGEANT TO THE U.S. Ministers ’ Office on the state of the bread - care industry and the provision of bread and bread - making products to the population. SERGEANT TERRESTUKA to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for the award of subsidies to the Cherkas region from the State Budget for the extended passage of individual categories of citizens. Taras STECHKIVA to the Prime Minister, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service for the destruction of the National Shareholder Company Nadra Ukraine and the removal from the State of Sakhalin Gas Condensation in the Kharkiv region. Jury Prokopčuk to the Prime Minister regarding the failure of the Ministry of Defence to carry out tasks of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regarding the withdrawal from the state-owned state-of-the-art crisis of the flat car repair plant, the repayment of annual debts to employees of the factory. Group of National Deputies. to the Prime Minister, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, on bringing Ukraine's current legislation into line with the separate legal acts of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in order to prevent damage to Ukraine's state budget. [[WOODS, COMARA, AND OTHERS]] Paul SULKOVSKOVSKI and Sergey RIŽUKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the preservation of the state-owned Volinthorf enterprise, located in the village of Prilisne Manevicki district of Volin County. Valentina MATWEJEVA to the Minister of Coal Industry of Ukraine for the violation of the legal rights of employees of the "Krasnoarmiyshtoboud" Trust in the Donetsk Region to receive adequate cash payments in connection with the liquidation of the production unit. Victor PAULENKA to the Acting Head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine regarding the situation surrounding the rental of the entire property complex of the specialized engineering office "Robotex" in the right-wing district of Kiev. Mr. Vladimir PILIPENK to the Minister for Internal Affairs, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the violation by officials of the Frankiv District Administration of the city of Lviv, for the requirements of effective law that have led to the restriction of the right to property and the presence in such acts of crime. Edouard PRUETNIK, head of the Pension Fund, Minister of Justice, Prosecutor of the Chernigiv Region, on the need to verify the information provided in the repeated appeals of residents of the village of Ombiš in the region of Chernigiv after a corresponding parliamentary appeal has been made and comprehensive measures have been taken to protect the social rights of citizens with regard to obtaining wages. Eugene KYRILČUKA to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine on the delay in Ukraine's foreign affairs with regard to the violation by the Romanian Embassy of the current Ukrainian legislation and the infliction of material damage to society with limited liability for "Karina". Igor JERESIAH to the Minister for Housing and Utilities regarding the improper consideration of the parliamentary appeal concerning the emergency condition of house number 30-B on the street of Saxegan, the Volosiow district of Kyiv. Irina is the head of the Security Service, the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Attorney-General of Ukraine for the acquisition of state funds by officials of the State Enterprise Information Centre of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine and the Society with limited responsibility for Art Master in providing services from the organization and ensuring access to automated electronic systems. Ms. Alexander ŠEPELEVA to the minister of agricultural policy in Ukraine regarding the damage caused by the disaster to the Zacarpathian and Ravenna agrarian areas. Alexander ŠEPELEVA to the Minister of Environmental Protection of Ukraine on the use of measures to prevent an environmental disaster in the city of Kallus Ivano-Frankiv region. Helen BONDARENKO to the Minister for Regional Development and Construction of Ukraine on the removal of the environmental and life-threatening barriers to construction on the streets of Crnovola, Pavlovska, Zlatoustovstov, Kyiv. Helen BONDARENKO to the head of the Ukrainian Security Service on the threat and pressure against journalists of RIAC and ATV Odessa broadcasters from the Ukrainian Department of Security in the Odessa region, which are marked by the crime provided for in article 364 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine and in article 365 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. [[Abuse of power or position of service]] [[Exceeding authority or official authority]] Ms. Gordijenka's Sergy to the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Head of the Poltava District Authority for the illegal deprivation of housing, the protection of the constitutional rights of the disabled group of the Great Homeland War, the inhabitants of Kobeljak, the district of Saparniaza Isakov, and the ignorance of his appeal to all the authorities of Ukraine. Helen LUKASH to the Head of the State Commission for the Regulation of Financial Services Markets of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine for the violation by the National Insurance Company Oranta of the legislation on insurance activities and terms of the insurance contract. Vasila Petovka and Oksana BILOZIR are under the executive responsibility of the Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine to carry out an economic justification test of the increase from 1 June of this year on heat, utility services from central heating and hot water supplies for the population in Kiev. Vladimir CARPUCA to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the verification of the actions of officials of the State Customs Service in connection with the failure to comply with the decision of the Lutsky District Court of August 1, 2008, which was declared wrongful and repealed paragraph 2 of the Ukrainian State Customs Order No. 1031-C of 17 June 2008 on the termination of State service in the customs authorities of Igor Volchov. Group of National Deputies to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine for the immediate examination of letters from the National Bank of Ukraine concerning the restriction of the issuance of their funds to investors, which were transferred to banks on the condition that the contribution is returned to the end of the contract period and the decrees of the National Bank of Ukraine for the introduction of temporary administrations in the banks of Ukrprombank, Rodowidinkk, Kiev, Nadra, etc., which did not go through the state registration, even though they affect the rights, freedoms and legitimate interests of the citizens of these banks, violate the requirements of the Civil Code of Ukraine, are being pursued by banking affairs that have led to the mass theft of the Ukrainian people, and the undermining the authority of the banking system and the recognition of such letters and the non-admission of such letters. [[CARMASINE, BODNAR, SAMOYLIC, AND OTHERS]] [[deposit]] Mr. Alexander SKIBYNESKI and Ms. OSCIA to the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine on the illegal actions of officials of the Ministry of Ukraine on emergency issues and on the protection of the population against the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. Dmitry REVI to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the protection of the constitutional rights of Anatolia Screepnik, who lives in the city of Artemis, Donetsk. Mr. Vladimir PILIPEN to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the improper examination of the parliamentary request by officials of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for possible violations by the head of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the city of Kiev, Vitali Jarem of human rights and freedoms. Igora KALETNIKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the improper review by the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine and the law enforcement authorities of the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption, and the need to take action to halt the illegal activity of the organized criminal group created by Ukrainian citizens Bushanski and Krukovski. Mikoli KULČINSKI to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the discovery of a criminal case involving the non-refundation of funds by the Nadir private enterprise, made by the citizens of the villages of Zapiyevka and the Kryvoschiens of the Skuri district of Kyiv region for the production of state-owned land acts, and not the production by the company of the very state-owned land acts on the pies that were awarded by the Krivoshienski Rural Council to veterans, teachers of rural schools, religious institutions and participants in the war. Mr. Mikhail POLANCHIĆI to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal actions of the Ukrainian Security Service regarding the leader of the One Center of Victor Baloga. GORDIENKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of State Tax Administration of Ukraine, on the need for a thorough study of the psychological pressure and legality of the activities of officials of the state tax administration in the Poltav region regarding the senior authorized department of the Lubenski United State Tax Inspectorate, Vladimir Shevčik and his family, and the scope of the consideration of previous appeals. Jury KRUKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the use of appropriate measures of prosecutorial response to address the situation in the U.S. judo system. Vasila Petyovka and Oksana Bilozir to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to abolish certain provisions of the Law of the City of Kiev and to bring responsibility to those who claim funds from the owners of the means of transport. [[in the blockage part of the vehicles in the event of violations by their owners of the parking rules]] Groups of national deputies (COMARA, PAVLENKA, and others) To the Attorney General of Ukraine for a final, full response to a parliamentary request for a time-limit laid down by law. John Rabbit and Jaroslav JJDJIK to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the rehabilitation of the Hero of the Soviet Union, John Kilushik. Mr. Vladimir DANILEN to the Sumskie City Head on the systematic violation of the requirements of article 16 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine, concerning the response to a parliamentary appeal within a maximum of 10 days of receiving the Suma City Council. OXANI BILOSIR to the Head of the Kyiv City State Administration regarding the urgent measures taken to rebuild the apartment line and provide housing for the disabled with the Great Homeland War and the group participating in the liberation of the city of Kiev by John Polin. Group of National Deputies to the Donetsk City Head of the Donetsk City Council on the preservation of the 30th anniversary Square of Victory in Donetsk. [[THE TABLE, THE KING, THE PAVLEN]] Uljani MOSTIPAN to the Head of State Environmental Inspection in the Kyiv region regarding the improper examination of the MP's request for violations of environmental legislation by the private enterprise Agroprominest-Boguslavka in Boguslav Kyiv region. Dear National Deputies! 66 requests were made, including 5 to the President of Ukraine. Dear colleagues! Let us turn to the issues identified today, that is, Friday. Dear colleagues! We need to consider removing disagreements in the text of the adopted Ukrainian Law on Amendments to some Ukrainian legislative acts on taxation of services from international passenger, baggage and cargo transport, international shipping, international leasing and international goods repair. Dear colleagues! You have proposals for a solution to the differences in the adopted law. [[Registration number 3552]] May I have your attention, fellow officers? No warning to put it to a vote? Please, Peter Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u2	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! The Communist faction Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues! I'd like to address you as Head of the Supreme Council, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Because what we have now, namely the elimination of disagreements, is the quality of the product produced by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I would like to point out that recently the practice of voting a document in the first, second, third, fifth, and as a result we have such documents as we have today. This has become a system, and almost every day we have this process going on. That's why, Vladimir Mikhailovich! On behalf of the faction, I insist that we stop voting at the same time in several readings, because it has a negative impact on the quality of the final product, or the quality of the law. Thank you! Dear colleagues! The point is that there has been no derogation from the Rules and if there is no objection is a proposal in accordance with the Rules the question may be put to a final vote, that is the first. The problem is not that we are doing an imperfect product, the problem is that we have started to approach it in principle, and if these issues in the process of preparing for the signing of laws show disagreements, we are voting on the Supreme Council of Ukraine, not eliminating these differences in the working order. Because of this, there is a normal practice and let's not humiliate our own Supreme Council because we all share the same responsibility for what's going on in it. And what we need to do is to improve our work clearly, but this law has been passed by us more than by a constitutional majority, and we all agree that it is a necessary law. That is why I am voting on a decision to remove disagreements in the text of the adopted Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on taxation of services from international passenger, luggage and cargo transport, international shipping, international leasing and international goods repair. Please vote. [[10:24:30.]] For 303 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, please note that we now need the Supreme Council of Ukraine to determine the issue, please note, of the return to the consideration of the issue of the inclusion in the agenda of the Ukraine Presidential Approval Act, of the admission of the forces of other States to Ukraine in 009 for participation in multinational military training. [[Registration number 4412]] Let me remind you, my dear colleagues, that this was the appropriate decision of the Conciliation Council. I'm asking you not to run, but to work quietly. I'm voting for a return to the consideration of inclusion in the agenda of the draft law. [[Registration number 4412]] [[10:25:44]] For 226 Calm down. May I have your attention, please? Returned to the consideration of this issue, they went back to the consideration of the issue of inclusion in the order of the day. And now I'm voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the bill. [[Registration number 4412]] [[10:26:17]] For 219 The factions, please. Region Party – 0, "Club of Timoshenko" – 152, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" – 57, communists – 0, "Club of Lithuania" – 10. [[B in m in s a l in]] What's wrong with you? Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, let's see if we can work this out: at 12 o'clock there will be a break, the leaders of the MP factions I'm asking you to gather and all the claims will be discussed with you there. So at 12 o'clock, I invite the faction leaders to the Conciliation Council in the Cabinet of the Supreme Council. And now we have to look at the question even more difficult, please! This is a draft law amending the Code of Budgets of Ukraine. Dear fellows, let's do it this way, because, dear fellows,--I beg your attention! - because the law is extremely complicated because it is. Many amendments have been proposed. To test our willingness to consider this law, I will put to a vote whether it is my will to deal with it today. If we need a number of votes, we'll consider it. Well, then let's go through with it. We'll take all the time and we won't make any decisions. Well, it's a normal offer, I think. If we don't want to look at it today, then we'll put it off, let them study the MPs. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, calm down. Yesterday, we decided that we would consider this matter today. If the MPs are all familiar with the relevant rights, and there are a huge number of them, they will now vote in favour of addressing the issue. If they have not met, they will not vote in favour of this issue, we will not be considering it today. Is it the right thing to do? I am voting on the proposal for a review today at this session of the draft Law amending the Code of Budgets. [[Registration number 2709]] Please vote. [[10:29:15]] For 225 There's no will. What's wrong? Come on, I'm asking you, dear colleagues, everyone who wanted to has arrived. I'll put it to the vote again. To return to the vote for consideration today. If not, let's move on to the schedule. And please don't blame each other anymore. [[10:29:53]] For 226 Please report by Kirilczuk Eugene Ivanovich. Just a minute. We're back. Let's keep it clean, it's all right. Now. Please, you can't work. Calm down. And now I'm voting on this issue today. Please vote. Registration number 2709. [[10:30:36]] For 225 It's being announced. Dear colleagues, let's do it this way. Once again, dear colleagues, please calm down. Judging by that, even if we go through all the amendments, there will be no positive decision, so the request of the committee, the deputies, the factions to work out for the next plenary week. Tuesday we'll be looking at this document. But at the same time, we need to be aware that we will not be able to look at the basics of budgetary policy until now. All of it. The draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Social Television and Radio Broadcasting System of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[new editor]] Reporter Andrew Shevchenko, co-reporter, Herman Hanna Mikolayevna. Dear colleagues, we need to consider almost 10 questions, so I'd like to work quickly. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, I have the honour to present a law that I hope will create more positive emotions and bring this room together -- a law that describes how our troubled state television and radio can be transformed into modern effective social speech. This means that there will be television and radio, which will not work for power or opposition, not for the President or for the Prime Minister or for the governors, not for the owner or for the official, it will be for the television and the radio that will work for society. What Is Social Speech? Three key features: first, it belongs to society; secondly, it is maintained by society and thirdly, it is controlled by society. How does social television and radio differ from national television and radio? First of all, independence. And this is what the law describes as a mechanism that guarantees such independence. That's three key points. This is, first of all, independent funding. And this law describes a scheme that allows the future leadership of public speaking not to look at who governments are now, and who is opposed, as the name of the finance minister, but to do quality work, to work for society. Secondly, it's an independent human resources policy. This law provides for the establishment of a collegiate supervisory body representing various political powers, the public, and together they will appoint and release leaders of social television and radio. And thirdly, it's an independent editorial policy. Black and white, the bill prescribes guarantees that forbid anyone from outside interference with editorial policies. This will be a transparent, public, country-wide document that will determine how social speech will work and how it can be of greatest benefit to society. I really believe it's going to be a channel of standards, it's going to be a television and a radio that, regardless of what's in the yard right now -- elections, privatization or reprivatization -- is going to tell the country honest balanced information, with different perspectives, with a good balance. We have a question in this bill that we're going to need to work on in more detail on the second reading: this is also the question of the formation of a college supervisory body, this is the question of financing. And I'm very grateful to those who have already made comments and suggestions to this bill: this is the State Committee on Television and Radio Broadcasting, this is also the science and expertise department, this is individual deputies from different factions who have already started working on this bill. We will be happy to work together, but we would very much like to take the first step that we need to take in order to form a social language today. There are many deputies here who have at various times joined in promoting this idea: both Mikola Tomenko and Viacheslav Kirilenko, and Taras Stacks, and Edward Prutnik. There are five factions in this room that all publicly and unanimously support the idea of public speaking. I can walk through factions. Let me draw attention to the faction of communists that the bill provides clear guarantees that what is now state television and radio will not be privatized. There are guarantees that Social Speech is not to be privatized. I remind the factions of the Party of Regions that the leader of the Party of Regions Victor Janukovic always said he was two-handed for Social Speech. I think it's a good time with these same hands and to vote in favour of Social Speech, especially since there aren't so many of us in the room today. I will remind the faction "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" that it is not just our commitment to the Council of Europe and to the Europeans, but one of the promises of Maidan, which we have repeatedly spoken of on various scenes, podiums and performances. I will also remind you that the faction of the Lithuanian Block was the initiator of such a bill as early as the fourth call. And of course, I'm counting on the unanimity support of my colleagues in the faction of the Yulia Tymoshenko Block, because this is our software initiative. Finally, I would like to thank the representatives of all the five factions on our committee who voted unanimously in favour of this bill in the first reading, and I hope for the same unanimous vote here in the session room. A successful Ukraine is impossible without a successful medium, and in turn a successful medium in Europe today is impossible without a modern and effective system of public speaking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, do you have a question for the reporter? Please sign up. On the board. Mikhailo Kosov. Then Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u5	Mikhailo Kossov, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, Party “Reforms and Orders”. Dear Mr. Andrey, I have pointed out how decisively and firmly we have advocated the idea that this Social Television and Radio Broadcasting will be financed by society, controlled by society, and of course society will determine the policies of these social media bodies. You couldn't be more specific. Well, to be clear, what does this mean in this case, "sociality," because believe me, as you said, it is already very pervasive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u6	Thank you and I'll be happy to explain. When we say that public speaking belongs to society, it means that this bill is written in black and white: the State Television and Radio Complex will turn into a system of public speaking, and it's a system. [[And now it's about 30 state broadcasters.]] there will be no possibility to change the form of ownership. It will not be privatized. What is now in the hands of the state in the television and radio market will continue to work as a system of public speaking, and that means that we have no regional state broadcasters, no UT-1, or our National Radio, it won't go into anyone's private hands. When we talk about it being controlled by society, it's done by means of a collegiate supervisory tool, where there will be representatives of all parliamentary factions and representatives of the public. And when we say that it's being maintained by society, in our position, we're talking about it being financed by the State Budget in the volumes that are now going on State TV and radio, and that means that we as taxpayers will be financed, not by the owner who dictates our interests.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u7	Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u8	Dear Andrey Vitaliyovich, you mentioned here the leader of the Party of Regions Victor Fedorovich Janukovič and his point of view that we supported the idea of Social Public Television. And you probably remember that the main purpose of the project, not that, yours, was to ensure broad access to the media by different social groups and social groups. Instead, you're trying to make a national instead of a socialist. Convince me that the state status is not followed, the next is a common thief scheme: a state scheme, and then privatization, because the state is proven to be an inefficient owner. I'll do it if I can. This bill cannot be adopted because it poses a real threat to the creation of another state monster. Society here has nothing to do with it, and civil society has nothing to do with it. Convince me of the other and the radio.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u9	I'll try, because it's always interesting to discuss with you. I would not like the words “State monster” to be used, for example, by the Air Force or by the public speaking of Japan, which is called “Enejcej! ” and which is the absolute leader of the market, the best speaker; that we use it in terms of public television or Polish radio. They're not state monsters, they're the best servants of society, and nobody cares. Now, a very important question, which will be very important for you and your neighbors in the hall. The law describes the transition period in black and white, as we have a complex of state television and radio, which will become a complex of public speaking. And it's written that it's not subject to change in ownership or privatization. This is a crucial and fundamental moment. It's not like we were a couple of years ago when we heard about trying to privatize regional state television companies, or when we heard about trying to tear down state radio or state television right now. I'm against it. And in the law, to the extent possible, he tried to write guarantees. If we find even more powerful guarantees with you, I promise to support and acquit my colleagues on the committee and in the session room. This is done for another: to identify the very important assets that are now there.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u10	Oleg Laszko, faction of the “Blanket of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u11	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. I will uphold this law and vote for it. I have a proposal for you, Mr. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, Mr. Volodymyr Mikhailovich. Let's vote in favour of the short-term bill, because we forgot to vote, and this afternoon we only have about 20 drafts in the agenda. So there is such an offer, please support it. And I'm going to vote for this law, because public speaking, we've talked so much about it, we've talked about it for so many years, since 2004 and before. And unfortunately, the train is in the same place today. I hope that this bill today will allow us to raise this train in the interests of a million viewers who have the right to receive objective, impartial information, especially during presidential elections, this is an even more pressing issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u12	After this matter has been discussed, I will put your proposal to the vote. National Deputy Ariev, faction "Our Ukrainian People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u13	Dear colleagues, I believe that every normal national MP must support the idea of social speech and there can be no other way. But there are certain professional questions. First, the frequencies that will be set aside for public speaking, are they reserved, or are they already going to be from that resource that is absorbed? Because today, there are almost no free frequencies in air language. Then, as for Ukrainian manufacturing, will public speaking be conducive to Ukrainian manufacturing, rather than strengthening that, excuse me, give in to the word, porn that goes on “Inter”, “1+1” and other well-known channels that are purchased for copies in Russia? And the third, yet the funding scheme, how long will it save the social channel from the influence of the state and the financial and political groups? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u14	Thank you very much. An important professional issue concerns the frequency of resources. I know that, by the way, it also occurred in the discussions in the faction of the Party of Regions. The bill proposes the following formula. That frequency that's now fixed by state television companies and radio companies, we're proposing that the National Council transform this frequency resource into a social-language complex. I mean, it's social language, it's not about any private license that's on the job right now. It tells us that those, the frequent resources that the state now manages through state broadcasters, will be better used by a public speaking tool. And as far as funding is concerned. That's what we're proposing right now. When the amount of government funding that is now budgeted, and I remind you that we are now talking about hundreds of millions of dollars that we spend every year on state television and radio, it will be fixed by a single line with the guarantee that this money will be allocated annually regardless of what the name of the finance minister is. Perhaps we will find an even better tool before the second reading. Today, he would count on the unanimity support of the first reading session hall. It's a very important thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u15	Thank you. The report and the answers to the questions have been completed. Correspondent from the committee, Helen Bondarenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u16	Dear colleagues! The Committee decided to support the bill. But I want to make a few demands. I agree with my colleague, Mr. Mariyev, who asked a very precise question: on what very frequent resources the task of developing public television will be carried out. It's not in the bill. Next. The bill itself does not, in fact, carry out those tasks and does not pursue the objective to be pursued. What Is Public Television? Public. Not that public council is established by politicians and authorities, and not that directly dependent on State funding and public decision. This is what this bill contains. And another big moment. Yeah, it's actually written down by an organ like the public council. But the bill itself has absolutely nothing to say about the status, rights and responsibilities of that body. How the head of the public council will be chosen and so on. The mass of the violations and the mass of the inadequacies, the mass of the things that are simply lost. That's why it's a decision-making room. But in this case, my recommendation, as Chairman of the subcommittee on television and radio broadcasting, is simply to be sent for further development. Thank you very much. The position of the committee, Andrey Vitalevich, I said at the very beginning, if you've listened.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u17	Please write your questions down, dear colleagues. I ask you to put the names of the national MPs on the board. Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u18	Thank you. I have a question, and unfortunately, I didn't get the answer from the author of the bill, maybe from a professional head of the subcommittee. The main goal of this bill, the main objective of the introduction of public speaking, was that on the way to building civil society we would get a powerful tool -- public television, radio talk. Instead, we get a new state structure, a completely state structure, government plans, government funding, and state television and radio policy. To what, please, what are the possible consequences, what are the projected consequences for the social and political environment, for example, in the southeast of Ukraine, where people are still breathing with fire on this disadvantage of the Nakrad, which is interfering with the problem, on which channels, how to show what language and so on. Will we have a civil society or a new opposition?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u19	Thank you very much, Mr. Suhay, for asking. In fact, there is only one sentence in the bill: “Common language as a state institution will be created by the Cabinet, which will approve its statute.” All the answers to your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u20	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u21	Yuri Carmazin. "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense Party." Dear reporter! I have three short questions. First question, if you don't mind. What is in the law of society? Because I can see that this is creating a serious state institution. The second question. The conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration is overwhelming with the proposal to reject. Why the committee is not based on the fact that it is not the right conclusion or the right thing to do. Please tell me. And the third question. I looked at the composition of the social talk board. Thus, nine persons are elected by the Supreme Council, four by the President, four by a conference of representatives of the United Nations. So this is obviously going to be the whole social part there, four out of 17? Is that obvious? And what article of the Constitution provides for such formation? I would like to hear purely legislative answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. Carmazin, for your first question, there is virtually nothing in the law of society. The second moment the committee supported it, because it's actually our colleague and we're giving him a chance to finalize this bill, we can work it out with you between first and second reading, give this person a chance. Indeed, with regard to the composition of the council, there are only four of the 17 people who represent the public, why I have expressed the view that there is nothing in this bill from the social community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u23	Vladimir Bondarenko, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u24	Please pass the word to Andrew Shevchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u25	Andrew Shevchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u26	Thank you. I'd like to ask you a question, in my report, they said you weren't comfortable with the wording in the bill that relates to frequency. I'm going to read what it sounds like in the bill that the frequency of the resources that are currently being allocated to state broadcasters is being offered to transform the licenses into these frequencies and pass them on to public speaking. I have questions about what other guarantees we need, where we still need to look for an additional frequency resource, if we are in a law in transition, clearly predict where this frequency resource is taken and who should it go to? In my question, I just want to draw attention once again to the main question, today we have a chance to vote in favour of the philosophy of this bill, whether we are ready to move towards public speaking. And the question of forming a public council, and the details of funding, and everything else, we need to, we can and will take into account the second reading. Please answer the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u27	Thank you very much. In fact, Andrei, not only are we adopting the philosophy of drafts here, but we are also adopting procedures, practices and everything else. Your observation about philosophy is therefore totally inappropriate. There are no opponents of social television in this room, you don't have to look for the enemy here, it's the first moment. And second of all, please tell me, Andrey Vitalevich, you're like the greatest Democrat, and where you're going to be running those television companies that now have licenses on these frequencies, you're just gonna throw them out, that's democratic. That means you're just gonna take away the work of these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u28	Thank you, time's up, please sit down. Please sign up for the bill. Thank you. Name, please. National Deputy Ariev, please. The faction of "Our Ukrainian People's Self-Defense." Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u29	Dear colleagues! I want to remind everyone that social television and social radio is primarily Ukraine's commitment to the Council of Europe. This is a European norm that operates completely in all the nations of the world, who consider themselves to be unjustifiably civilized. So first of all, what Ukraine has to do about the media is to create, finally, a social vision and not talk about it. Dear colleagues! You know, for every bill, there could be a lot of claims, because every national MP who's in the room is a person who's thinking and who knows what he's doing. That's why there are so many deputies, so many thoughts. There could be so many claims for the bill. But if we don't start this process today, we're going to be for the next five years, believe me, we're going to close all the social television issues. Maybe the bill presented today needs to be finalized. But as far as I've read it, I'm a person who's a professional in television and who you know what television is, I can tell you about this bill in the second reading you can make comments. But what do we have today? Let's each of you take a TV remote, if you don't have any foreign channels and watch Ukrainian television, please watch what's happening today. Today is a complete debilitation, and I'm not afraid of that word of the Ukrainian population. Because there's no cognitive, no normal program, no children's program, no youth program is just a totally fat show, "honey-honey" by Russian clowns and not just Russian clowns. Look, please, at the fact that we don't have any intelligent TV, which is not only going to be called for the body, but also for the mind to give information. And there's no serious program, even if you look at the list of cognitive programs, we'll see the life of stars there, how they have fun in strip clubs there. Are these cognitive programs? Thus, social television is a chance to give the population of Ukraine normal information, positive and not only positive, but simply to paint the world as it is, rather than being created by a “fat TV player” today. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u30	Jaroslav Dry faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u31	Dear colleagues! I've been preparing for the performance in general, with tolerance and calmness, but I want to protect the "fat TV" and I want to protect Russian television programmes, Polish television programs, American TV shows. Because you want to or don't want to, the apologists for this bill have washed their "anti-Russian mural". That you don't like Russian TV shows, Russian hychonks? And you, dear fellows, offer Ukrainian hychonos! But that's not even the point. We have an open exchange of ideas today, I'm both hands for public speaking. Right, it's a European practice. And I quote, with your permission, the European language community, paragraph 11, recommendations. This system of language is designed for the public, funded and controlled by the public. What's in your bill, sir.? Not the public, but the State and its organs have a direct bearing on the formation and activities of public speaking. Please provide the public language of Ukraine with the status of a state institution that is established and approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. [[Article 3]] The Supreme Council of Ukraine and the President of Article 13 and Article 17, the State Committee on Television and Radio Broadcasting, or another body designated by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, ensure that a conference of representatives is held and so on, the entire structure of district television companies is broken, I'm not just talking about myself. Here a respected colleague told us that he was a professional televisionjournalist. I worked in Zaporozhye for a long time at the "Alex" television company, organized a television company, conducted the first broadcasts, led them, I'll tell you, it's great when you're out of state when you're out of state. Today the head of state alone, politics will be like this, tomorrow the head of state will change, politics will be like this, today the BSO will hang around the yellow and blue flags, tomorrow the BSO will get the team, will hang something else. There can't be a state, or a state, or a public, if this society, if it's a form, it's a powerful, powerful, look, it's a tool that's great for the formation of civil society, it's an opportunity for political parties, public organizations, and it's just a meeting of people to express their point if it doesn't match the point of view of the state, no one is allowed anywhere. We, for one more time, we, for one, but this bill is a substitute for the bill, nothing to do with the public, it has nothing to do with public broadcasting. We've had enough of these principles of formation like Nakradya, enough of this Nakrad, we don't know what to do with it, we're going to have another one on our neck.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u32	Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, Communist faction
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u33	Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. You know, dear colleagues, there is absolutely no doubt that Ukraine’s television system must be reformed, explained or argued in different ways. I'd like to take this opportunity to make another argument that I didn't make today. Remember that TV program, Savik Schuster's television programme, the day before Victory Day, where he used to rain down on veteran frontalists. Directly speaking, with his sensations, he made a control shot at the heads of veterans of the frontists, who not only liberated the post-Radians space that freed Europe and mankind from fascism. Who is he? Who gave him the right to appreciate such pages of our history? The fact that it is necessary to reform television is absolutely necessary. But it's about some other things. You know, I feel like we're a nation of antipods. We can take exactly the opposite positions. Let's say either communist as before, or anti-communist as it is today. It's either one or the other. I want to talk about some of the comments that are in the faction of the Company of Ukraine. The subject here was that excessive powers are vested in the state. And I want to put another point of view. Let's see. The second position of the second article. The establishment of radio organizations is prohibited in Ukraine. Who is it that is forbidden? Public authorities, except for public speaking. Local self - government if the decision to create or position them does not provide for the establishment of a television organization. And this list is pretty big. Moreover, the document provides that district television companies are virtually depriving a legal person of their rights. They're going to be the bodies at the site of an organization that was created at Kiev? And if you add those comments, the correct comments that have been made today about this document, you might conclude that the eyewitness is also the absolute majority of the MPs who are in the room today do not support this document. It has a lot of contradictions, gaps, things that are incompatible with the processes that are taking place in our society. So the faction of the Ukrainian Company will not vote in favour of this document today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u34	Eugene Suslov faction “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko”. Who? Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u35	Dear colleagues, I think we need to take down a few stereotypes. And I think that's the nature of the discussion when we say that commercial television companies want everything they do, and good things will do public speaking. I think it's one of our biggest mistakes that we don't make or require from today private channels to do the same, based on social morality and social principles. Imagine we're going to make a cool one channel of social talk. He will promote social morality, promote education, culture, and the rest of the channels that are not obliged to do so. I think that's our first position to stand up for. The social nature of speech must be characteristic of all channels. Another problem. Clearly, what is social speech? Social speech is a channel where the vast majority of programs are not available to the Presidents. Because I don't think anyone understands that it's not a political channel where all the candidates in the Presidents take turns, it's mostly educational programs, it's cultural programs, it's programs that commercial channels don't do because they don't think they can make money, it's tourism, it's promoting the country. Thesis first. Another thesis. Of course, society should want that kind of television, so it shouldn't be in advertising, for example, social advertising, but it has to be maintained somehow. So in most countries, it's mixed funding: government fees and subscription fees. So if we realize today that our society is willing to pay for such a channel of subscription fees, then we're going to do that. If we don't, in principle we're not changing anything, we're just going to be state television, which is paid from the state budget, we're going to call it social, we're going to be paying for it from the state budget. So I don't think that's what's here. The next thing you know, it's institutional. Then we need to think about a radical version of the bill which? We've already talked here, so today we have the National Broadcasting Company, the Districts, and we're translating them into this social language. [[In a way that the law is not clear, right?]] I have to say with all the criticism that, in fact, today, the National Radio Company, many programs of the National Television Company, in many areas, the district television companies are the only media that actually talk about real life, about culture, about education, about ordinary people. And we should certainly thank these people for working in such conditions. So, of course, we need to find a way for these people to know that they're not going to stay out of this process and that there's going to be other people on their own, and we're going to throw them out. And now they're actually just social and they're doing it. That's why I would say it that way. If we're talking about today's bill as a test of what we want social television, this test must be supported. And if we're talking about this bill as a bill that answers how we're going to make public television Ukrainian European Ukraine, unfortunately, this bill doesn't answer that question. So you can support the idea, but you can work and work, because unfortunately, the key issues are not solved in the bill and it's not clear, starting with ideology, ending with funding and management, how this television that we've been talking about for decades is going to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u36	Dear colleagues, I ask you to enroll the deputies in the discussion. It's a recording. Take the name of the national MPs on the sign-up board. Mikola Kulczynski, please “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u37	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, I am convinced that the authors of the project have set a noble goal of creating social television, but unfortunately, the law is written in such a way that this goal is not achieved and is not near. 17 years of Ukrainian State construction has always shown that where public funding is, there is always an influence of the state. Another point in the practice of building our nation. You can never make fetishes of democratic values. Democratic values only work when society matures. On the other hand, they are contrary to the purpose that these values proclaim. They create a monster. Including such a monster, I think it will be called, if this law is implemented, and social television. So until society is ready to pay for it. Listeners, viewers aren't willing to pay for Social Speech, this social television will come out in the opposite -- a tool to use by those or other politicians who will be at the head of the state in their own, at least electoral, interests. Besides, what is the norm when communities are not allowed to create their own TVs except social ones? Are we monopolizing any expression of entrepreneurship and freedom of speech in general? I strongly urge MPs not to vote in favour of this bill, but to work, taking into account the social sentiments, the social relations that are in Ukrainian society, and on the basis of these relations, to work on the social television project that Ukraine really needs. And with regard to the quality of Ukrainian television, which some MPs have talked about, this quality does not mean that social speech will be better. At least to this day, Ukrainian radio is broadcasting beautifully. And from a political point of view, they are diverse and multidimensional, i.e. objective. and from the spiritual development of Ukrainian society, its cultural development. There are many wonderful broadcasts on the “Culture” channel. Now it's all going to be monopolized by Social Television. And I doubt it's going to be the same quality and it's not going to be influenced by government officials. Thank you. I call against it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u38	Vladimir Bondarenko, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. The next one will be George Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u39	Vladimir Bondarenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear colleagues, I would like those words to be heard by radio audiences and television audiences as well. The point is that we are all very well aware today that there has been privatization of various spheres of life in Ukraine. Someone runs the DA's office, someone privatizes the entire industry, someone has land latifunds. The media did not become an exception to this list, and today the whole range of private individuals also belong. These information bullets are increasing, and the opinion of one or another political power is actually being imposed on society through the channels, newspapers, and radios they own. Therefore, the need to create a specific system such as public television is absolutely essential. You look at any of the channels today, and you'll understand who it belongs to, what it thinks stands for, and whether ordinary Ukrainian citizens are allowed there, scientists, writers who take a stand as a minimum, not a party one. So once again, I emphasize, it's necessary. The argument here was that communities create their own channels. What channels are they?Oh, my God! Look at the Kiev Canal, where Chernewsky celebrates himself and that group of young governors he brought in, he thinks, talented. Today, they cover up all living information. There's no opposition, there's no cyanide. And if we have community channels, as they say, we'll have total misinformation of citizens. The right to receive objective information should be ensured by access to these channels of various political powers. Take, for example, the newspaper Voice of Ukraine. There, every faction of the Supreme Council, which reflects the political sentiments of society, has its own quota. With their quota, both Communists and anti-communists are published, and that's normal, that's right. If we get to the point today that we're going to give instructions to some oligarch who's not, we're really going to get to the point. And I'm surprised that the eminent Democrats who think they are, with foam on their lips, stand up for the position to leave the entire information system under the control of the oligarchs. What is "state television," what is "public television"? There's some kind of control, there's an ability to influence. Please influence “Inter” so that you do not plant either Jacinyuk every night or anyone else. I think you're not going to be able to do that, and that's the way people get in the mood, sometimes it's the opposite of public thinking, it's the manipulation of consciousness. Therefore, public television is a sure guarantee of the coming of people of different political powers with their thoughts, as well as the involvement of citizens themselves in this information. So I call for a vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u40	Yuri Karmazin, faction “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense”. Andrew Shevchenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u41	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not speak the language of emotion. I will speak only the language of the document and the legal norms. So what do we have today? We have a lot of different televisions today, and more of them belong to the oligarchs -- it's absolutely true. What's more, we don't even know who they belong to, because we're not going to make any changes to the law, and we're going to make sure that everything is open to society: who, how much, what are the reasons, where the funds go and so on? That's what we had to settle. What do we want from public speaking in Ukraine? Obviously, the population of non-state national and regional television channels is what we want to have. What we have and what should be for Social Television. It's supposed to be independent formation -- it's supposed to be the best actors in art, culture, the best, I repeat, it should be the brightest, but there should be the most authentic people who would have a system, and who would be trusted by people, and who would be supported by their own resources by television. What do we have in this project, ladies and gentlemen? I've seen a lot of projects in my life, but this little 10-article project, it's caused me a whole range of feelings, and it's not positive at all. Why? And because you open every article, you get a little shock. A shock like this, for example, in article 8: “Funding is fixed by a single line in the State Budget”, - i.e. taxpayers will pay these experiments. Next: he has the right to conduct his business, but all the costs go only to the organization’s tasks. Status has a non-profit. Ladies and gentlemen, one way or another. Well, finally, what I want to say is what I saw in the transitional positions where the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is tasked: to take the property away, to ensure that the National Broadcasting Company, the National Broadcasting Company, the National Radio Company, the National Broadcasting Company, the National Broadcasting Company, the National Broadcasting Company, the National Broadcasting Company, the National Broadcasting Company, all 27 of them, the State Broadcasting Company, the Crimea. Dear, well, obviously you can't do this project, I won't give up my vote for this project. Obviously, the amendments to the television and radio bill that are now being proposed here are also not possible, i.e. a conceptual problem. Any project can be accepted in the first reading, but there are conceptual problems that you can't agree with, starting with these.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u42	Andrew Shevchenko, faction of the Timoshenko Yulia Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u43	My colleagues, I've been discussing the claims that were before the bill, and I've heard that there's too many states and too few states, and I've heard that there's too much ideology, and there's not enough ideology, and I've heard that there's too much government funding and too little government funding. And that's normal, because there are more than four dozen different forms of public speaking in Europe and they're diametrically different. If we're talking, my colleague from the Party of Regions said that there are too many states in the Supervisory Board, I'll give you an example of a small country in Iceland, where all the members of the Supervisory Board of Public Speech are appointed by the Minister of Justice, and that doesn't prevent this social language from performing its functions. Someone said there was a lack of funding. So let me say that, at least, 6 different models of funding from full budget funding in the Czech Republic to full funding at the expense of subscribers' salaries, as in the case of Air Force, or in the case of German ZDF and ARD. Full spectrum, we can choose anything. All of these are issues that we need to discuss and take into account, perhaps politically, I would say the decision before the second reading. The supervisory board, the funding and the allocation of leadership responsibilities are all very important. I wanted to ask you another question: Is there at least one MP in the room who's being set up by the state television and radio system? Is there even one MP who hasn't said that too often we have a state television or a state radio, she sings under the adage of the President or the Prime Minister, depending on who's more powerful now? Or regional state broadcasters. Is there anyone in the room who doesn't know that it's very often just the governor's or someone who has access to the office right now? Are there even one among us who thinks that this should be left out. No, I guess not. And another question. Is there anyone who thinks that this system just needs to be crossed out and thrown into the trash, taking into account the people who work there, the technology, the knowledge, the experience. No, there is no man. The only way you can change this system and preserve the potential that's in 30 state broadcasters is to finally start creating a social language that will work for society and make the best use of what's been happening in this system for decades. And finally. What a complex of state television and radio talk is now. Here my colleague at the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" reminded me that tax payers are going to maintain public speaking. Aren't we getting along now? We now spend several hundred million dollars a year in every budget on state television and radio. Are we satisfied with the full extent of what we receive in return? Sadly, no. Thus, the bill suggests how this budget can be better managed. And finally. I'm looking at today's vote, really, as Michael Tomenko said, the philosophy itself, whether we're ready to move in this direction, whether we're ready together for the second reading to define ourselves in specific positions. Financing, oversight board. Whether there should be radio and television together, or whether they should be different. Whether they should be together throughout the country, or whether they should function separately as independent legal entities, regional branch offices. It's all up to the second reading. Today is a test of our trust in the very idea of social speech. I call for unity and support.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u44	Eugene Suslov, faction “Bloka timoshenko”. Is there Eugene Suslov? I can't see. Vladimir Karpuk, please. Who? You refuse. Thank you. Then Vladimir Karpuk, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u45	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Even though there is really no one in the Chamber who would not be satisfied with the information policy that is currently taking place in our country, or whether we need a valid answer in the Hall, or whether we need public public speaking, of course, the answer is yes. But is the ideology itself that is set forth in this legislation a high requirement that puts society on social radio? If you form the principles briefly produced by the European language community, you can say that for the community, at the expense of the community, usually under the control of the community. And if we want to really have social language, we need to put the foundations in this legislation to meet these basic requirements, if for the community, then this bill really is ideologically shaping what this is doing for the community, because for the community, it has to have answers to all the questions that arise. But mainly under community funding or under community control? The ideaology of the bill suggests that it becomes even more national. Not even state officials, because the statute approves and creates public radio broadcasting for the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, is budgeted, financed by the budget. With this politicization of the authorities in Ukraine, we can already predict that we will not have public speaking in Ukraine, there will be another organization that will serve certain political powers, for who and how will win the elections. And so by supporting the idea, and by responding to whether there should be a social radio talk, by supporting the idea itself, we cannot vote in favour of this bill, which translates the basic functions of control over the so-called social language space into a state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u46	Dear colleagues! We finished the discussion. The bill was concluded. Dear colleagues! The committee proposes to adopt a bill as a basis. A proposal for a committee to adopt a draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on the Social Television and Radio Broadcasting System of Ukraine is put to the vote. New edition. [[Registration number 4198]] Please vote. [[11:21:21]] For 202 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on voting for re-reading the draft law. [[Registration number 4198]] [[11:21:46]] For 206 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Dear colleagues, there was a proposal for us to consider short-term bills to take decisions from all the issues that are to be considered today. I'm voting on this proposal. This is a proposal from the national deputy Oleg Lášk. [[11:22:20]] For 274 Decision taken. Thank you. The draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the use of defence land is being announced for consideration. The rapporteur is the first Deputy Minister of Economy, Maksut Anatoly Arkadyovich, co-rapporteur, head of the subcommittee, Committee on Agrarian Politics and Land Relations, Perestenko Marina Volodymyrna. [[Registration number 3129]] Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u47	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, your opinion is proposed by the draft Ukrainian Law to amend some Ukrainian legislation on the use of lands of defence. The need to draft a bill is due to the fact that more than 420,000 hectares of land are now being used continuously by the Ministry of Defence. The reform of the Armed Forces reduces the need for land use and raises questions about its further effective use. At present, this problem is not legally settled, and the authorities of local self - government or executive authorities are now usually the administrators of these lands, and under such conditions the state loses both land and money. With a view to resolving these issues, the bill proposes to amend the Land Code and the Law on the Delimitation of Lands of State, the municipal authorities, which will allow for the establishment of the following standards, states of defence are solely state property. Now they can be in both state and municipal, which is illogical. The Cabinet of Ministers is empowered to make decisions regarding the change in the target destination of the defence land, their removal, the transfer of social objects along with land to municipal property free of charge, only after determining their boundaries in kind in the area. The sale of land, along with objects of immovable military property by the Armed Forces, takes place exclusively at auctions by the public authorities of privatization in the order established by the Cabinet of Ministers. And the last. Costs derived from the sale of designated land are included in the State Budget Special Fund and are directed to the needs of the Armed Forces. Dear National Deputies! This bill is intended to provide appropriate legislative regulation and order for the transition of the Armed Forces when they lose their purpose and are transferred to or to stockpiled lands.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u48	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u49	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u50	Thank you, Anatoly Arkadyovich. I invite Marina Volodymyrovna Perestenko, head of the Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u51	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! On 14 April 2009, the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations considered a draft law submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine proposing to amend the Ukraine Land Code and the Ukrainian Law on the Delimitation of State and Municipal Property. [[Registration number 3129]] And to address the use of land for the defence of liberated entrances to reform the Ukrainian Armed Forces, to change the target destination of such lands, and to sell and free transfer them to municipal property, and to define the following. A law that defines the legal principles and order of use of defence land is the Ukrainian Law on the Use of Lands of Defence. Therefore, the issues that are proposed to be addressed by the bill should be addressed by amending this law rather than the Ukrainian Code of Land. Especially with regard to the amendment to article 20 of the Ukraine Code of Lands of Defense, it should be noted that the Ukraine Code of Land defines the general criteria for establishing and modifying the purpose of all categories of land, not just the lands of defence. With regard to the issue of the alienation and transfer to municipal property released in the course of the reform of the Ukrainian Armed Forces of Lands and Real Estate of Military Cities, which are part of a multi-functional assignment and located within cities and other populated areas, it would be appropriate to define the features of such alienation in the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Regime of Property in the Armed Forces of Ukraine. Taking into account the relevant provisions of the Ukrainian Code of Land, in view of the above, supporting the proposals of the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Authority.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u52	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u53	and the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on National Security and Defence proposes that the draft law should restore the right of the subject to a legislative initiative for further development. [[Registration number 3129]] Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u54	Thank you, Marina Volodymyrno! I understand that there is a need to discuss. We're working in short-term mode. Please register who is “for” who is “against”. Please show me. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u55	Yuri Karmazin Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear National Deputies! Of course, there are questions today to those lands that are called defense lands. As a result of this, many ministers have had trouble, resulting in many abuses, resulting in the loss of tremendous defensive potential and of course major abuses. How to make sure it doesn't happen. In my opinion, this bill has signs of how to get out. I think the government tried to get out of this situation as complex as possible, let's say. But the contradictions that divide the government itself, its various parts and the various ministries and departments, the committees talk about what is visible and viewed here, and look at other approaches. It is now proposed to amend the Earth Code and to record that the funds received from the sale after the change of destination go to the state budget special fund and focus on the needs of the Armed Forces and other formed military formations. Isn't that a bad thing? That's probably a good thing. Isn't it bad that only by the public authorities are privatisations sold at auctions, not as it was until recently, when one of the deputy defence ministers, one or the other, sold these lands all the time and ran them?? These are the agreements. So I think that this conceptual approach should be supported. Another question, of course, is the problem here, and when the earth passes into communal property, there are problems and those comments that have now been made from the committee's point of view. Nevertheless, it seems to me that the government has made a civilized attempt, it should be welcomed and voted in the first reading. Thanks for the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u56	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Vladimir Bondarenko, please, from the BUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u57	Vladimir Bondarenko, Timoshenko Yuli Block. Dear friends, I would like to point out that the unregulated use of land in military service is particularly important. After all, in Soviet times, land was allocated to the country’s defences, including in extremely important recreational areas, particularly in Crimea, in the area, such as a vacation near large rivers, well, the Rzisztow region, which covers tens of miles [10 km] of the Dniper coastline. There are such zones and smaller ones even in the city of Kiev, which is a huge reserve for the construction of the city. In particular, I will give an example of just one Holy District, where I practically worked my whole life. There are 60 acres [60 ha] of what is called the House of the Warsaw Treaty, which is now surrounded by a number of businessmen and virtually previous agreements. There's a huge warehouse of military production in the village of Cotsubinsk, there's what's called the fuel-oil base of the air army. There are several other large plots of land, particularly at the border with Kyivovo-Svetosinsky and in the Kyiv-Svetoshin region itself, so-called general lakes. These are all areas of recreation that once served the Chinese, and today they are actively sold to private individuals and individual companies. Therefore, the question of whether this will continue can be decided by this law. And in order for the state to control the distribution of these lands to introduce certain rules of the game that would not allow military intelligence, whether or not another minister should manipulate state property, property that should belong today, indeed, to the people. And this first of all is evidence of this information that we've been getting lately after this department's work. So I'd like us to adopt this law in the first reading, and when we're working on it, we've taken all the features into account to make it really a working document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u58	Thank you. Dear colleagues, no one insists on the performance? Then I am voting on the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the use of defence land as a basis. [[Registration number 3129]] Please vote. [[11:33:06]] For 168 The committee suggested that the bill should be drafted, so I have no reason to put the first rereading. Obviously, the government should work more actively with the committee and prepare a new version of the law. I am announcing for consideration the draft Law on Transfer, Forced Derogation or Removal of Property under the legal regime of war or state of emergency. The reporter is Deputy Justice Minister Valery Volodymyrovna Lutkovska. The focal point will be the National Deputy, Alexy Plotnikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u59	Thank you very much, Your Honourable Chairman, Honorable People’s Deputies! Part 5 of article 41 of the Constitution provides that the compulsory alienation of private property objects can only be applied as an exception to social necessity, on the basis of and in accordance with the law, and on the condition that they are previously and fully compensated. Forced alienation of such objects with available full cost compensation is permitted only under conditions of war or state of emergency. However, as of today, Ukraine’s legislation has unfortunately had no mechanism, no specific mechanism to determine such order. In this regard, the draft Law on Transfer, Forced Derogation, or Removal of Property under the legal regime of war or state of emergency was drafted to determine the mechanism. In particular, the bill determines the number of subjects entitled to damages for property, the specificity of the decision on forced alienation, the removal and transfer of property, the requirements for documents issued as a result of forced alienation or the removal of property, the order and duration of the compensation for forced alienation. Until a state of emergency or military status has been declared in Ukraine, the bill does not require additional funding from the state budget. The bill was considered at meetings of two committees. The Committee on Economic Policy of the Supreme Council of Ukraine decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of the bill as a basis. A similar decision was taken at a meeting of the National Security and Defence Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u60	Thank you. Have a seat, please. The correspondent is Alexy Plotnikov, head of the Committee on Economic Policy subcommittee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u61	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! The Committee on Economic Policy had before it at its meeting on 17 September 2008 considered a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Transfer, Forced Disposal or Removal of Property under the legal regime of war or state of emergency. [[Registration number 2608]] The draft law proposes to determine how the provisions of part five of article 41 of the Constitution of Ukraine can be applied only as an exception to the grounds for social necessity on the basis and in accordance with the established law and the conditions of prior and full compensation. In particular, a bill aimed at regulating the state-owned property, which may be forcibly alienated from the owner under a legal regime, war, or state of emergency, and defines the mechanism, both previous and subsequent, foreclosure of the state-owned property, which may be forcibly alienated again under conditions of war or state of emergency. Taking into account that the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council, in its conclusion, notes that the first reading of the proposed bill can be adopted on a basis, the Economic Policy Committee also proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. This was the opinion of the Committee on Economic Policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u62	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there no objection to putting this proposal to the vote? [[committee proposal - accept as a basis]] May I? I beg your attention, fellow officers. A motion to adopt a draft law on transfer, forced alienation or removal of property under the legal regime of war or state of emergency shall be put to the vote for adoption as a basis. [[Registration number 2608]] [[11:37:53]] For 215 May I have your attention, Your Honor? The question is necessary. I will put to the vote the return to the consideration of this law once again. Please vote. [[11:38:21]] For 217 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on voting for re-reading the draft law. [[Registration number 2608]] [[11:38:46]] For 221 The decision is not taken, the bill is rejected. A draft Act amending article 15 of the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Regime of Military Status is being announced for consideration. Reporter – Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denisova Ludmila Leontiyevna, co-rapporteur – Head of the Committee on National Security and Defence of Gricenko Anatoly Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u63	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is being drafted by the Ukrainian Act amending article 15 of the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Regime of Military Status. The main purpose of the bill is to improve the legislative security in the field of the functioning of the State authorities in the conditions for the introduction into the State or its separate areas of the legal regime of the military remnant. An important consequence of the adoption of the bill will be the creation of a legal basis for the order of the population engagement system to eliminate the extraordinary situation of a technological, natural and military nature, as well as the work being done to meet the needs of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. The procedure for involving persons in socially beneficial work and the mechanism for compensating them will be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The adoption of the bill will also align the content of article 15 of the Ukrainian Law on the legal regime of martial law with that of articles 8 and 10 of the Act. The bill will expand the legal field to ensure the effective functioning of the authorities in the state or in the separate areas of the state of war regime, and will help improve the level of employment of the population during a special period. The implementation of the bill now requires no additional budget. Ladies and gentlemen, please support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u64	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Anatoly Stepanovich Grizenko is head of the National Security and Defence Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u65	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! This document has been unanimously supported on our committee, but we ask that it be accepted only in the first reading in order to take into account the second readings that are correctly made by our expert management. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u66	Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss the bill? Anyone who insists, please sign in. Please put the names of the national MPs on the board. Vladimir Yavorowski and Yuri Karmazin
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u67	Vladimir Yavorowski. Well, first of all, I want to welcome the Minister of Labour with a very good grasp of the Ukrainian language. Good for you! It would seem that this bill may not be in time. On the street, in a state of crisis, everything is kind of quiet, calm, everyone is preparing for the presidential election there and so on and so forth a bill on settling some of the points, such as employment during a state of emergency. But it seems to me that this is a very present failure in our legislation, because an extraordinary state is not just, say, a state of war there and so on, but there may be another situation in the Ukrainian state. Because of this "Julia Tymoshenko Block," we fully support this bill, so that we can really accept it on the first reading -- not on the reading, but on the reading -- and on the second reading, make some clarifications there, and we will have a very good legislative supplement.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u68	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u69	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear National Deputies! I wanted to remind you that we are now. We didn't have five votes to pass the previous law that talked about the legal regime of war or state of emergency. Remember, when we were in trouble, we had to make inadequate and serious decisions; we were not prepared for this. And so we just buried the law, not even sending it back to the first reading. It's not serious. I've read the bill, I've seen it work well, Vladimir Mikhailovich, and I'm sorry that such a serious law is not supported. With regard to this bill, the bill, which is intended to regulate the possibility of forced labour, which is provided for in article 43 of the Constitution and the international convention, I believe that the standards that have now been written are absolutely correct, because it is also about eliminating the extraordinary situations of technological, natural, military character that have arisen during the war period and its consequences, as well as the possibility of engaging in the conditions of war in socially beneficial work that are being done to meet the needs of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, other military formations and civil protection forces, that is, what we are talking about protecting the country, and what ensures the functioning of the national economy and the system of ensuring the viability of the population. The bill is very simple: one point in fact in the first part of article 15 of the Law on the Legal Regime of War. It's not a complex bill, but it refers to those bills that are already called so-called butterfly bills. So I call on the government, I call on all ministers: if we go to some law, let's review everything under this law, so that 25 times we don't report from here, so that we can review the conformity of both the Constitution and everything. This law should be passed, and it should be adopted in two readings immediately, if that is so with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. Please prepare for the vote. A proposal is put to the vote: the adoption of the draft Law amending article 15 of the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Regime of Military Status. Please vote. [[11:45:44]] For 334 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u71	The committee. The committee denies accepting it as a whole. Who raises the hand? Pencil, microphone. The law was adopted as a basis. Prokopchuk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u72	Dear colleagues, Mr. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like to ask you, after all, obviously not having been able to vote in favour of the previous bill, this is a very important bill. We're all thinking about defense, we're all thinking about how to strengthen our defenses. In fact, in the previous bill, that's exactly what this is all about, it's a world practice, by the way. And if someone doesn't realize that everyone has to stand up for this when there are extraordinary situations. This is a very important bill, and I ask you to come back and vote it as a basis, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u73	Dear colleagues, the previous law, unfortunately, did not receive support for acceptance as a basis and, on reiterating the first reading according to the Rules, it has been rejected and now to return, unfortunately, I cannot understand the objectivity of your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u74	In the next session, yes. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian State Secret Act is being tabled. [[Registration number 3034]] The rapporteur is Deputy Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Gerasimenko Mikhajlovich, co-rapporteur, Head of the Committee on National Security and Defence of Gricenko Anatoly Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u75	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished national MPs, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian State Secrets Act is developed by the Ukrainian Security Service as a special authority of state in the field of state secret protection. The need to develop a draft law is due to the imperfection of certain provisions of the Ukrainian State Secret Act, which was adopted back in 1994 and the new law on counter-intelligence, on intelligence, on the fight against terrorism and others. The purpose of this bill is not to review, to revise the articles of the State Secret Act, but to make changes and additions to some of them, caused by the need to harmonise national legislation with the standards of Euro-Atlantic society in this area. In particular, we are proposing to make major changes regarding the activities of State inspectors in matters of secrets, to form a set of information that is a public secret, to improve the quality of citizens' checks in relation to their admission to secrets and to give them adequate access to secrets. In our view, making changes will contribute to strengthening the state protection system and will not limit the scope of existing rights and freedoms of citizens provided for in both the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. According to legal expertise, the bill received a positive conclusion from the Ministry of Justice and the relevant authorities. The adoption of the bill does not require additional funding. I ask you all to support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u76	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Mr. Gricenko Anatoly Stepanovich, head of the National Security and Defence Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u77	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The committee voted unanimously for him and asked for his support, but I emphasize under the protocol, only in the first reading. Because, unfortunately, the prepared document contains some things that go beyond common sense and are already open to society under other laws. For example, the numerical structure of the Armed Forces, the issue of defense orders, and others. But the committee members consider it possible for the second reading to clear up these inappropriateities and then accept them as a whole. I would like to address the faction of "The Timoshenko Yulia" personally, because I heard that we are not voting. I want to remind you that on the committee this document was presented by the deputy head of the committee, the head of the subcommittee, these are the representatives of your faction, and they convinced the committee to accept it in the first reading. [[Lieutenant General, First Deputy Head of the BSC]] So I would like us to be consistent now and vote, allow us to continue working on this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for a bill if you need to. Please put the names of the national MPs on the board. People's Deputies of Paris, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u79	Paribay Andrey, “For Ukraine! ” The bill is, in fact, extremely important today. Especially in situations where very often, including national MPs, access to public secrets is used to produce either their own, or party, propaganda information. We've seen this since Russia's aggression in Georgia, when closed data was used here from the Supreme Council's rostrum to carry out certain political orders and to defend the interests of another state. Therefore, I believe that it is extremely important today to make the State Secret Act more stringent, and most importantly, in this case no know-how is made that characterises only our state. We are effectively adapting and aligning our legislation with European structures and meeting the requirements of the agreement between Ukraine and the European Union on security procedures for the exchange of information with limited access since 2005. So I think it is very important for us today to adopt this law in the first reading and later in the second reading. Thank the Ukrainian Security Service for preparing this bill. I call on all deputies to vote, and the parliamentary group “For Ukraine” will also support the bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u80	Thank you. Peter Cibenko, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u81	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues! Perhaps there is no need for amendments to the State Secret Act, I will say more I think that the Supreme Council of Ukraine has greatly delayed the adoption of these changes obviously had to be adopted earlier, even if in order to avoid situations that, if you will, remind me of a smile over the state secret. When it comes to structures, Ukrainian Security Services are invited as advisers by foreign citizens. I realize that there are countries where foreign citizens are invited by ministers, but that's another thing. But I think that the changes that they really need, and by preventing the document from being quite broad in terms of the changes that are being proposed, I think that the right profiling committee, when it comes to accepting this document in the first reading and working very hard to achieve exactly what we want by making changes to this law, and not being so blunt, as they say, a shot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u82	Thank you. Please, Oleg Lazko. The faction has the right to speak, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u83	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. The bill certainly deserves support, but there are inadequacies spoken of. In particular, there are suspicions that this bill is trying to put out tender procedures for the purchase of all property. So actually, conceal the purchases at which the price of sausages is bought, where the price of eggs is bought, and so on. A sausage soldier is not fed at all, but it turns out that sausages are purchased in the army three times more expensive than in the Bessarab market. So it's very obvious that all of these things need to be removed before the second reading, because as budget spending goes on, it can't be a state secret, especially when we see them breaking into defense and other departments. Therefore, this bill can only be supported if the second reading is deleted that raises suspicions about the procurement plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u84	Dear colleagues, the bill's discussion has been concluded, the committee's proposal to accept as a basis and take into account the comments made by the national MPs during the discussion of the bill in preparation for the second reading. I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee on the basis of the draft law amending the Ukrainian State Secret Act. [[Registration number 3664]] Please vote. [[11:55:25]] For 212 The decision is not taken. We didn't make it? I'm voting for a return to the law. [[Registration number 3664]] [[11:55:54]] For 264 We're back. I'm betting on a motion for adoption on the basis of a draft Act amending the Ukrainian State Secret Act. Please vote. [[11:56:22]] For 265 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 30 minutes. We need to have a meeting with the faction leaders. Break until 12:30. The heads of the deputy factions are requested to meet in the office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and also to invite the head of the National Security and Defence Committee to this meeting.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u85	Dear colleagues, we continue our work. Let me inform you about the meetings of the Conciliation Board. We discussed the issue and the proposal for a return to the draft Law on the approval of the President's decision to admit the forces of other states to Ukraine in 2009 to participate in multinational military training. Because it's not tied. Not only have there been different thoughts in Ukraine, but there have been different thoughts in other countries. If you're ready, I want to say I'm going to put the vote on the return vote. Now we continue to consider the issues set out in the schedule for today. And invite the deputies to the session room so that we can make decisions. And when the MPs come along, I'll put it to the vote. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tourism Act on information to the consumer of tourism services is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 2599]] Reporter – Deputy Minister of Justice Lutkovska Valerija Volodymyrna, co-rapporteur – Head of the Subcommittee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport and Tourism Safiullin Rawl Safovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u86	Thank you very much, Your Honourable Chairman, Honorable People’s Deputies! The draft law currently under discussion aims to accomplish two tasks. The first task is to protect the rights of consumers of tourism services in order to provide them with full, reliable and timely information about the services they will be provided to enable them to provide them with a conscious and competent choice. In addition, the draft Act adapts Ukraine's legislation to European Union legislation, in particular to the provisions of the EU Council Directive of 13 June 1990 on integrated tourism, integrated recreation and complex tours. This draft Act sets out the essential conditions for a tourist service contract that are necessary for a contract of the species in order to enhance consumer protection by means of a draft law cancels the alternative use of such activities as vouchers as forms of written contract with conventional travel contracts. The adoption of the draft law will facilitate the establishment of appropriate conditions under which the consumer of tourism services will be fully and reliablely informed, the tour operators will be obliged to comply with all the conditions for the award of the tourist product listed in the offer, the essential conditions of the tourist service contract will be established, as well as the means of redressing all the losses and inconveniences that may have been experienced by the users of tourist services. In this regard, we ask for the support of this bill, taking into account that it not only improves the situation of consumers but also brings our legislation into line with European standards. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u87	Head of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy and Sports and Tourism, Safiullin Rawl Safovich Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u88	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! The Committee, at its meeting, considered the draft Act amending the Tourism Act on Ukraine concerning information to the consumer of tourism services. As already stated, the bill proposes to address the issue of providing consumers with the necessary accessible, reliable and timely information on the tourist product, as well as to determine the essential conditions of the tourism service contract. During the discussion at the Committee meeting, many comments and suggestions were made in the draft law, including public tourism organizations. In preparing for second reading, the Committee will take them into account. The adoption of the project is supported by the Committee on European Integration and the Chief Scientific and Expert Office. Their comments could also be taken into account in the drafting of a second-reading bill. The Committee on Budget Affairs decided that the bill would not affect the income or expenditure portion of the budget, and our Committee also decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that the draft be adopted as a basis. I've got everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u89	Dear colleagues, if there is a need to discuss this matter, please sign up. It's a recording. Please put your names on the board. Vladimir Yavorowski, Yuri Karmazin
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u90	Dear colleagues, Vladimir Yavorowski “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Well, it seemed that God sent us this location, in the center of Europe, with a crossroad, including tourist destinations. However, we have the impression that it's just a colossal piece of profit, that it's the image of our country and so on. By the way, I want to have this opportunity, and I want to say, actually, that what we're attached to today's culture, and we're stuck with tourism, it's kind of amazing to a lot of people. And the fact that tourism has been out of state for a long time, and what's going on there, there's some funding going on that we seem to be promoting our tourist destinations abroad. But ask anyone abroad, or someone else has heard about some kind of ad there, some ad, some ad there, some tracts and all that sort of thing. No one actually heard anything. This is one side of this. Because what we're intruding into today and trying intellectually to prescribe certain, means that the order of functioning of our sphere, which is actually only born in Ukraine, is very good. Because it's good that the bill deals with both previous agreements and forms of payment, and that's very good. I'm not going to judge that everything here is absolutely accurate and perfect, but on behalf of the “Julia Tymoshenko Block” I want to say that in the first reading, we are in favour of accepting it, and in the second reading, passing it on means all the amendments that are needed. We will support this bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u91	Yuri Carmazin's faction of "Our Ukraine People's Self-Defense."
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u92	Yury Karmazin Party of Fatherland Defenders of Our People's Self-Defense. Dear National Deputies, why do we adopt laws? Obviously to make life easier for people. Obviously to survive the crisis somehow. Let us see how this law applies to those who have to obey it. The All - Ukrainian Association of Tourist Operators, that is, unites all operators, deals with this law in this way. I quote a letter. “The Council of the All-U.S. Association, at its meeting, considered the above-mentioned draft law and acknowledged that some of the provisions of this project and their subsequent implementation would significantly complicate the movement of the tourism product into the service market and its implementation. The impossibility of an operational change in the cost of a tourist’s product and the requirement for a tourist to double compensation for the cost of a package of tourist services can lead to legal fraud by some tourists and the bankruptcy of tour operators, which will primarily be suffered by tourists themselves. They are confident that the drafters of the bill, without knowing the specifics of tourism activities, do not realize that no tour operator or tourist is able to make such compensations at the expense of his funds. Such changes in the economic crisis, when the number of consumers of the tourist product is steadily decreasing, will lead to the destruction of the domestic tourism market." [[Conclusion]] I only quoted part of this letter. Dear project developers, I'm asking you very much when a bunch of organizations are turning, well, you see how a tourism company today can be held accountable for being late for the plane for an hour. What are you doing? How is this possible? Always put yourself in that company's place, that tour or that tour operator's place. I don't think anyone would want to be there. And I go to the committee, you get a lot of these thoughts. I think so.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u93	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u94	Laws need to be improved. If you don’t get better, you don’t want to take any. At least it'll be less harmful and less people will be grabbing charity, because we're going to close some of the businesses again. Thank you for your attention. I will not vote and support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u95	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. I am voting on the proposal by the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tourism Act on informing the consumer of tourism services. Yeah, let's vote for it, it's a deal. We need a decision, a vote, respectable colleagues. [[12:41:00]] For-160. Mikhail Vasilovich, judge us. May I have your attention, Your Honor, on the return to the draft law, on the return of the draft law. [[Registration number 2599]] Please vote. [[12:41:38]] For-153 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. The draft Law on Access to Public Information is being announced for consideration. The rapporteur is the first deputy head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information, Shevchenko Andri Vitaliyovich. And invite the deputies to the session room so that there will be no further insistence that we do not support the decisions that they are proposing, in that country, the President of Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u96	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. We all know what it's like to chew information off an official or an authority that won't provide that information. The bill suggests that there should be another philosophy in Ukraine, namely, all that authority knows should be known to citizens. This authority should prove why it does not publish any or other segments of information, these arguments should be very convincing. This bill will definitely help journalists in their work. Why? First. It shortens the deadlines for processing information queries. The order is set out as follows: for a general information request, five days, and when it comes to information relating to the life and security of citizens, the official or the authority should provide this information within 48 hours. It's different. Each authority is personally responsible for dealing with informational appeals. This does not require additional budgetary funding, but it is up to each authority to determine one person whose office it is. And thirdly, there are certain special positions that promote the right of citizens to know, for example, what are the positions that protect informers, that are those officials who want to report on, for example, corruption, and they want to know that the law will protect them. This bill was drafted by a coalition of public organizations, designed in a spirit of commitment to the Council of Europe and in a spirit of recommendation. A similar bill was drafted by the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine. Both bills were sent to the Council of Europe for expertise. I would like to thank the Head of the Supreme Council for directing one of these bills there. Previous conclusions received. I propose to vote together in favour of this bill in the first reading and to continue working together for the second reading. We're going to do this together with the Ministry of Justice, which has developed a very strong alternative bill. Officials are going to have to move a little bit more, but they're going to work on it, I don't think they're going to know much better, the country's going to know more.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u97	Thank you. Landik Vladimir Ivanovich of the Committee
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u98	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! The committee reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Access to Public Information, introduced by the Ukrainian National MP Shevchenk. The purpose of the bill is to ensure transparency, openness of subjects of authority and the creation of mechanisms for the exercise of everyone's right to access public information by defining a regime of access to it, namely, exclusive grounds for restricting access to information, establishing responsibility for refusal or delay in the provision of information, as defined by the Parliamentary Assembly Resolution of the Council of Europe on the performance of duties and obligations of Ukraine since 5 October 2005 and the Council of Europe Recommendation No “R” on access, access to information at the disposal of the authorities, and the number “R-2008” on access to official documents. [[number ‘P-19’]] The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. It's got flaws, not everything, because, as you remember, it was given almost a year ago when we had it or started it, whether there was a war between the Cabinet of Ministers and the President's Administration when they didn't give each other information, and the bill was made, but there are shortcomings that I think before the second reading we're going to nail them, everything will be done as well, so we're going to offer it in the first reading to accept. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this document? You don't? A proposal for a committee to adopt is then put to the vote on the basis of the draft Law on Access to Public Information. Please vote. [[12:46:35.]] For 323 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! The factions? Please. Region Party 96, Timoshenko Yulia Block 142, Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense 38, Communist 27, Litvina Block 20. Dear colleagues, we need to get into the agenda now, and then we need to decide on a draft law amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts. [[on simplifying the order of acquisition of land rights]] [[Registration number 4430]] Please vote. And then we'll consider the admission of foreign troops. [[12:47:24]] For 280 They've put it in the order of the day. Please, the reporter is Oleg Lazko, National Deputy of Ukraine, and the co-reporter will be the head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, Perestenko Marina Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u100	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! You are being reviewed by the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on simplifying the order of acquisition of land rights]] In fact, the bill. Today’s procedure provided for by the Earth Code for the development of two - stage projects is pointless and is of no use to most of its members. The agreement on the location of the land has turned into a cumbersome process of double or threefold agreement on the same issues. Thus, the bill proposes to limit the scope of the site selection procedure and to apply this procedure only if there is no urban or other land-based documentation available on a specific site. It is suggested that the land removal project, which has not changed in comparison with those agreed upon in its selection, is not subject to re-agreement. This, in turn, will reduce both land-use documentation costs by at least half as well as land-disposal deadlines. In addition, the bill proposes to introduce an agreement on land-based documentation based on the principle of “one window” through the creation of a three-week period for each re-establishment or city council of a committee composed of representatives of all the agreeing bodies, as well as the establishment of a three-week period for consideration by the committee of the documentation provided. At present, projects are sometimes agreed upon for years. And free consent. Today, the cost of agreeing to the project is only officially about 2,000 dollars. It is also proposed that a rule be laid down on which grounds the refusal to accept documentation may be solely inconsistent with the law, not with the various regulations, including local acts. In view of the above, I propose to adopt this bill as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u101	Please, from the committee. Marina Volodymyrna Perestenko
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u102	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! The Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations at its meeting on June 10, 2009, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine, registration number 4430. [[on simplifying the order of acquisition of land rights]] In considering the bill, the committee noted the following. The adoption of the bill will significantly reduce the deadlines and costs for the preparation of land-use documentation to address the issue of land removal. The bill introduces an agreement procedure for land-based documentation according to the principle of “one window” through the creation of each re-establishment or city council of a commission consisting of representatives of all the agreeing bodies and establishing clearly defined terms of reference and free consent of the documentation. It is predicted that the existing corruption schemes in this area will be removed in this way. In view of the above-mentioned committee, he decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to adopt the bill as a basis. Thank you for your respect.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u103	Dear colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] What commission? Please sign up if you have an assignment. What is the purpose here? What is the purpose here?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u104	Two in, two in.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u105	Vladimir Dmitrovitch, reports. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, please, this is a violation of the Rules, you know.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u106	Dear friends, this is what we're talking about. That the Committee on Budgets on each bill has its own conclusions. In this regard, we have come to the challenge of reducing the revenue of the state budget, do we not? We think not, because today, in those structures that allocate land, there are mostly private, private structures that make money on citizens and on legal persons who agree with these documents. We therefore consider it possible to support this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u107	Dear colleagues, no other warnings? There is a vote on the proposal by the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts in Ukraine to simplify the order of acquisition of land rights. [[Registration number 4430]] Please vote. [[12:52:38]] For 298 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, for the last time, I ask you only to take it calmly. On the Conciliation Council, we discussed the draft law on the approval of the President's decision to admit other States' military forces to Ukraine in 2009 to participate in multinational military training. [[Registration number 4412]] And that's how we settled it. That we put to the vote a return to this bill. We'll vote now, then. Well, please, Peter Cibenko from the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u108	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! It's perfectly clear that the question is absolutely resonant. It concerns Ukrainian citizens. And despite the fact that NATO's accession today supports only 13 percent of Ukrainian citizens, they are trying to take a step in this direction. Therefore, on behalf of the faction, I insist that the vote on inclusion in the agenda and then, if it is included and considered in fact, be voted on as provided for in the Constitution, i.e. each MP vote in person. Because we understand the value of the question with all the consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u109	Thank you. Therefore, my fellow Members, I ask that this legal requirement be met, and I ask that you treat it accordingly. I am voting for a motion to return to the draft Law on the Approval of the President of Ukraine's Decision to admit the military forces of other states in Ukraine in 2009 to participate in multinational military training. Please vote. [[12:54:47]] For 217 The decision is not taken. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, we have exhausted the schedule for consideration. Now we're going to the "Variable" -- the presentation of the authorized factions. As for the final vote, I would ask everyone to calm down those who so support the head of state. Five times they cannot mobilize and make the right decision. And no more torturing the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please record the performance. Please state the names of the national deputies on the board. Andrey School, the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko, will be followed by Andrew Parubius.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u110	Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! I would like to highlight first in my three - part presentation. Thesis first -- of course, Ukrainian society expected us, from parliamentarians, from power, from the opposition of decisive and uncompromising action in the fight against not only the economic crisis, because the economic crisis does not have as much Ukrainian origin as the world. And first of all, to overcome our political crisis, unfortunately, it exists and continues to produce poisonous fruits for the Ukrainian State. The opposition to the branches of power is generated by 50 by 50 systems of power in Ukraine, unfortunately, is becoming constantly debilitating, both in the Ukrainian economy and in the Ukrainian state. So it's clear that under any circumstances, the current norm of the Constitution will be reviewed, which provides for a similar dualism of power. I can honestly say that I was an ardent opposer of today's political reform, which was voted in this room by an absolute majority of votes, in order of 400 votes at that time. But there were 20 votes against, and this 20 actually included the Yulia Tymoshenko Block and I, including, so we're completely honest with society. We felt that the system of political power in Ukraine could not be destroyed. The thesis of the second, who's to blame? The guilty were already named, they shook their hands during the speech before the people, and without looking at what they had done on their background, in their back-ground set up conditionally, representatives of different types of the population, the main figures who rocked Janukovich's back, of course, were representatives of Rossukreenergo, who were completely genuinely in favour of the leader's performance. I think the most important thing for us is the thesis of the third time I wanted to stop holding the presidential election. They will be held, the Supreme Council, I'm sure they will soon be determined by the date of the elections, and we will demonstrate the skills, and the desire to consolidate society after the presidential elections, which I am sure we will win. But there's going to be a constant need and a constant need to consolidate society, to sew the Ukrainian political elite together. There can be no representative of various parts of Ukraine to confess different and very often not Ukrainian ideological worldviews. So I urge all of us to do what is expected of us, in any case, to be united and to be victorious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u111	Thank you. I invite Andrija Paruba, the faction “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”, to prepare Mikhail Chechtev.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u112	Paribay Andrey, “For Ukraine! ” The representatives of the fifth column, including in this room, opened up an hysteria on the theme “Strengthening Ukrainian Language in Crimea”. The start of this hysteria was given on May 19 by the Sevastopol City Council, which decided to ban the teaching of school materials in this city in Ukrainian. The issue of improving Ukrainian language in schools where instruction is conducted in the languages of national minorities was a matter of concern. How could studying in Ukrainian history and in graduate classes studying in two languages of mathematics and another subject of student selection be harmful in the Russian - language world in these schools, of course. But the MPs who represent the Party of Regions and Communists are concerned not about the Russian language, but about the fight against Ukrainian language knowledge, even at the cost of deliberately lowering the level of education of Crimean children and their ability to enter universities and the labour market. They are calling for violent Ukrainianization in the four hundredth - century city, where there is only one school with a national language of instruction. In all of Crimea, only seven such schools are taught by two percent of Crimean children. Talks about violent Ukrainianization have a number of goals: divert attention from local officials ’ tools of land and property, satisfy customers of anti - Ukrainian decisions outside the country, and divert attention from discrimination against Ukrainians in Crimea, for 25 percent of criminals are ethnic Ukrainians, and want to teach their children Ukrainian, many Russians, and Crimean Tatars. But only two percent are able to do that. Why so? Because anti - Ukrainian forces sabotaged the increase in the number of schools in the national language of education. In Simferopol, for example, 3-4 people are claimed to be one place in Ukrainian high school and parents are forced to take turns at two o’clock in the morning to have a chance to take the child to Ukrainian school. This policy of regionals and communists controlling power in Crimea is a willful crime against the future. The parliamentary group “for Ukraine” requires the government and law enforcement authorities to use everyone to stop discrimination against Ukrainians in Crimea and Sevastopol. And allow all who want to learn in schools with the national language of teaching in their own state. The rights of people who cannot return children to Ukrainian schools because of their absence or overcrowding must be protected in accordance with the law. And regardless of the fifth column’s hysteria. This is our statement. And at the same time, I'd like to point out that actually this week, which was planned for anti-crisis laws, was not used for anything. As we warned BUT and the Party of Regions this week, they planned to change the Constitution. I am convinced and I want to thank today all society, journalists, that together we have not allowed this rebellion to take place in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This is the great victory of the Ukrainian state, this is the great victory of the peoples of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u113	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Prepare Peter Zybenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u114	Dear voters! As the president’s campaign neared, Julius Timoshenko was forced to abandon the tactics of the population’s populist promise, as it proved to be inactive in a crisis and, in spite of expectations, led to a lower policy rating. Instead of making promises, she went on to openly manipulate the data and try to make what she wanted real. The statements by the government of Yulia Timoshenko about the successful fight against the crisis, unfortunately, do not match reality, despite some positive signs of economic development and the financial spheres of stability of the situation, are still too early to speak. Despite the calming claims of inaction and lack of professionalism of an active government, the economic situation continues to deteriorate. Instead of admitting faults and calculations and promptly correcting economic policies, an active government has been able to limit access to information and honest data manipulation. Since the beginning of April of this year, the daily provision of information on the remaining funds in a single treasury account has been suspended, showing the availability and volume of free funds in the state. On April 15th of this year, the government specifically banned the leaders of the central executive authorities from providing information and analysis materials without agreement with the Prime Minister or the First Vice-Prime Minister. On May 20, 2009, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine banned state companies, institutions and agencies from publishing administrative, financial, and other data on the methodology and reporting documents that were not consistent with the State. The poor economic performance of Ukraine and the negative monthly statistics have led to the fact that the information component of the state’s activities is becoming a closed topic for society, designed for a limited circle of users from the number of officials and institutions. One step at a time is the publication of data that does not match the optimistic reports on economic development and crisis management. Such steps for the rule of law are unacceptable and are not understood by either the expert community or the potential investors. Moreover, the closure or limitation of information is invalid in relation to economic agents, as taxpayers and alongside threats of further data manipulation reduces the effectiveness of decisions taken and does not contribute to restoring confidence in the State. Finally, this limits the rights of citizens and public authorities to information enshrined in article 9 of the Information Act. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u115	People’s deputies Peter Cibenko and Marina Perestenko hand over the right to speak to the national deputy Valentine Matthew for six minutes. Dear colleagues, we will listen to our colleague!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u116	Thank you! Valentin Matthew's faction of Communists. Dear voters, all of us today have seen the issue of the Supreme Council's review of the Ukraine Presidential Approval Act on the admission of other States' military forces to Ukraine's territory in 2009 to participate in multinational military training. And as always, as every year in the Supreme Council Hall, when it comes to setting up such a question, I'd say it's a very violent passion. It can't be any different. Under the disguised definition of multinational education, what is hidden is that it is mainly the military units of NATO countries. This year it's particularly the United States, I mean, the UK, Romania, Canada, Poland, Lithuania, Slovakia, etc. Their overall duration would be 176 virgins, and 6,390 foreign servicemen, including 3,775. And that's only according to the official data that was provided to us by the Ministry of Defence in particular. That is, we would have almost 4,000 invaders in Ukraine, trampling our Ukrainian land, and this is the country whose people in the referendum supported a neutral non-block status. I think we'd need to be much clearer about this than we are today when we vote for the inclusion in the agenda of this issue. Appropriately, honourable voters, to remind you, even in spite of the massive propaganda that we see with you every day, the propaganda of NATO in Ukraine, which is carried out day and night by the orange authorities, the people of Ukraine are still consistent in their priorities. So according to research by the Institute of Sociology of the Academy of Sciences of Ukraine conducted in all regions, I emphasize that in all regions of Ukraine 58.1 percent of those surveyed are very negative about joining NATO, this is what my colleague Peter Stepanovich Cibenko talked about today, and just think about it, only 13.2 percent are positive about this issue. Still, the teachings that are being planned testify to the fact that Nazi puppets in the Ukrainian authorities obediently carry out teams from Washington and Brussels. And I think most voters support me in saying that only the enemies of their own people can plan such large-scale Nazi training in the year of the most severe economic crisis. When Ukraine’s poor budget is not even enough to solve the most current, most pressing problems, such as the rise in beggarly pensions and unemployment benefits. Dear voters, it is clear that the North Atlantic Armada, if it is good to obtain such a decision from the Supreme Council, intends to deliver its military equipment to Ukraine. The plan is to occupy the Ukrainian sky by raising hundreds of warplanes and helicopters, and Ukraine’s territorial waters have already set out to rustle more than 20 Nato ships and several submarines. The most massive are the 30-day Si-Bris 2009 trainings, involving 1,500 military personnel, including thousands of foreigners. [[It's actually three times as much as in 2008.]] Under Nazi occupations, Crimea, Odessa, Mikolaiyivsk, and Herson region were in the midst of the summer season. Therefore, the faction of Communists, as always, in principle and consistently opposes the adoption of this law, upholding the President's decision to conduct these so-called multinational military teachings. We are firm against the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u117	Thank you. National deputy Valérie Behves passes the word to Andrew Najdion, a faction of the Communists of Ukraine. Prepare Vladimir Landik.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u118	Dear People's Deputies, citizens of Ukraine! I would like to draw the attention of my fellow countrymen to the issue that is referred to at each of their public meetings and which is present in every action by the main persons of the country, which is to a person, to public issues. A number of bills have been submitted by the Communist factions concerning the support of the enterprise, which is of strategic importance to the economy and security of the State: these are bills relating to the return of the basic sectors of the population that are owned by the citizens of the legal persons to the property of the State; this is a bill that speaks of the return to public property of the Herson Engineering Plant. It was considered to be such and to include in the order of the session. And in the course of my consideration, I draw the attention of our citizens to the fact that the Party of the Regions and the Block of Lithuania did not vote in favour of resolving the issue of transfer to public property. Is that a public approach? No, it's a hypocritical, vile and man-made mine. And if it is to evaluate manipulations with the Herson machine plant, such actions and actions, then it can and must be classified as criminal acts, such as a State crime, as the economics of the State, thousands of families, have been severely damaged, virtually disrupting all strategic development of the whole industry, and through massive cynicism, double standards for the development of society have been introduced. So today, for example, there is a second world contest of seven wonders of the world, in which Ascania Nova also participates. But turning the world around to this unique corner, we can't see that social infrastructure is being destroyed. Through the dedicated activities of the President, the head of the regional government, the district administration, when the gas stations are closed, the closure of a unique music school with its traditions and schools, and the education, when it is being reduced in an existing hospital, of this institution of South Ukraine livestock, this wonder of the coal can become extinct, people have been overlooked and faced with anti-human approaches. I turn to Julia Vladimirovne, President of Ukraine, and sometimes ask that people and citizens of my country be looked at and noticed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u119	Thank you. I do not see the people's deputy Landik, so I invite to the glory of the national deputy, Viacheslav Koval, the faction “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense”. Prepare Petra Hashuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u120	Mr. Chairman, distinguished national MPs. Viacheslav Koval, National Movement of Ukraine, faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. Corruption is one of the main factors that pose a real threat to Ukraine's national security and democratic development. It has a negative impact on all aspects of social life. The massive nature of corruption undermines the level of confidence that citizens have in the whole of power. In the face of the global economic crisis, foreign investors are beginning to engage Ukraine not only in the wake of the economic crisis or the effects of these events but also as a result of the extremely high level of corruption of Ukrainian officials. The level of corruption is a measure of society, its morals, the political, economic and social state of the state. The National Movement of Ukraine has been forced to say that it has not been possible to push corruption out of power until now, and in some areas corruption has only risen. In 2008 Ukraine divided 134 positions from 180 countries, divided positions with countries such as Nicaragua and Pakistan, as well as the Comoros, according to the annual rating of the International Anti-Corruption International Organization. In 2006, Ukraine shared 99 positions with Georgia, 118 seats in 2007, and 134 positions in 2008. In view of such achievements, in quotes, Transparency International concludes that the increase in corruption is the result of the absence of a fight against this phenomenon, and puts Ukraine in one row with countries considered most corrupt in the world. The former Soviet republics have a higher level of corruption than in Ukraine, with Kazakhstan, Russia, Tajikistan and Belarus. Thus, the problems of corruption of public authorities, judicial authorities, self - government bodies are common to both countries and to every citizen individually. That is why the vital need for the further development of the State is an effective response to corruption. We must overcome corruption, because this is the only way to build a state that has European democratic values. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u121	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the Peter Hashuk faction of Yulia Timoshenko. to prepare Andrey Shevchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u122	Thank you. Dear Chairman! Respectable citizens, especially the Cherniewsky region! I ask you to consider my speech as an address to the Minister of the Interior, Mr. Yuri Lucenka. The point is that a few days ago there was a conflict between citizens in the Czernovetsek region of the Starożinetsky region. So, in this fight, a gun was used, one of the attackers was wounded, but my point is that in this fight, there's a mixed and constable of the district council who's trying to translate a completely criminal conflict into a political plane. I have already spoken to the local authorities, especially the head of the district administration, with my head. With the chief of police and I have a request for Mr. Lucenka to take this situation, to have it under control in order to study the matter properly and to show that there is absolutely no policy that they want to show. These are absolutely criminal investigations! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u123	I would like to prepare a protocol commission at the request of the National MP to the Minister of Internal Affairs on this subject, as the National MP spoke. Valérie Kamchatny gave the word Andrew Shevchenko. Prepare Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u124	Dear colleagues! I would like to draw attention to the bill on public speaking, which was discussed today by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This is a bill that described how a system of European social speech would appear in Ukraine instead of an ineffective old - fashioned system of State television and radio. And unfortunately, the bill today only got 202 votes, it's rejected. I would like to take this opportunity to thank my colleagues from the faction of the Yulia Tymoshenko, as well as the faction of the Lithuanian Block and those colleagues from the faction "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense", who have shown their commitment to long-standing promises to create a system of public speaking in Ukraine. I would also like to express great regret that the bill and the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine have not been supported, which speaks much about the need to preserve state property, and the faction of the Party of Regions, whose leader repeatedly spoke of his commitment to freedom of speech and the ideas of social speech, and very many of our colleagues from the faction “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense”. It seems to me that this is an example where, not in words, but in fact, we can show our loyalty to these stated, very good, worthy European ideas. Unfortunately, this means that for a while we can still preserve state television and state radio in Ukraine in the inefficient way it is now. I think the citizens of Ukraine and our colleagues in the hall have no reason to believe that this is of little use to Ukraine. Unfortunately, it's very often a simple consumption of budget funds. And today's non-vote for the law on public speaking is unfortunately conservative. It's also a very bad signal for those people who work in this system of consciences who want to grow. Because not voting for public speaking robs these people who work in the state television and radio systems of their ability to grow professionally where they are used to working. According to a large estimate, the country still has a choice: whether we are going to develop our national radioactivity according to the Russian RTD, whether we are going to build a system based on the example of the British Air Force, the Japanese "An Age Key", Polish public speaking, and dozens of other successful social speakers, both in Europe and worldwide. What's next? Targets remain constant. I am sure that in Ukraine, sooner or later, we will have an effective, dignified system of social speech that we will be proud of. I'm talking to MPs who represent different political powers, all of whom this idea is really on the way. I call for unity. We're going to develop a new version of the public speaking law, we're going to register it again, and hopefully we're going to get a much better result. I'm talking to all the journalists who talk to politicians and talk about freedom of speech. That's one of those points, that's what you can ask politicians: what their position is about social talk, and why they or their political power voted in one way or another. And finally, I'm talking to all the proponents of the idea of social talk in Ukraine, and these are representatives of public organizations, media, just conscious citizens. Our goal is unchangeable, and I am confident that in Ukraine public speaking will appear sooner or later. Hopefully, it will come soon. A successful Ukraine is a successful media market, and social speech is essential.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u125	Thank you. I'd like to invite Oleg Layashk, the faction of Yulia Tymoshenko. Prepare Vladimir Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u126	Thank you. I would like to draw your attention to the new edition of the Ukrainian Budget Code, which, unfortunately not yesterday or today, the Supreme Council has not even been able to include it in the agenda in order to consider it and vote. Unfortunately, our colleagues from the Party of the Regions, from the Communist faction, and part of the faction of "Our Ukraine" did not vote on this issue. Why is the issue of the budget code so important to the country? Why is this issue under personal control by Prime Minister Timoshenko Yulia Volodymyrna of Ukraine? Because this codex and its new edition answer key questions of development and further functioning of local self - government. We are all present in this room talking about how we care about the development of villages, villages, cities. But we need to move from words to action. The government offered such works after the meeting of the first in Ukraine, which was held, the All - Ukrainian Council of Rural, Rural and Urban Heads under the chairmanship of Prime Minister - Yulia Timoshenko. Proposals were made to the Supreme Council for the provision of additional financial powers primarily for local self-government and, in particular, for the key provisions of the bill, for local budgets for inter-budget relations. In particular, it's proposed to move to a direct relationship between the state and all the local budgets, which is over 12,000 local budgets instead of 691. In order to ensure their own powers, it is proposed that rural, rural and urban budgets be transferred and strengthened in full, paid land, paid for commercial patents, taxes from owners of transport resources and the collection of environmental pollution, as well as 10 per cent of private enterprise income tax, transfer of 15 per cent of income tax to social, professional and socio-psychological rehabilitation of children and disabled children, local fire and compensation to citizens for the provision of social services. I would like to address, as my previous colleague, the heads of rural, rural councils, the mayors of cities. The MPs will be working in the districts next week. I very much ask you, if those deputies come to you, take them and tell them, give them your command from the people, from themselves, to vote for the Budget Code, which will allow for the survival of both villages and small towns and villages today. We need to move from words to action. Local self - government should not only be given authority on paper that is not financially strengthened but also be given real weights. Today, the government is offering an additional 12 billion dollars to support local self - government.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u127	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u128	If we don't do this today without exaggerating the budget revolution, we will never do it again. Today, the only way to do this is to financially support villages and villages and cities. So get a job and get the MPs who didn't vote, I'm the one who's talking to them, and teach them how to vote. As a matter of fact, care for the interests of local communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u129	Thank you. Bondarenko Volodymir is invited to attend. Prepare Yuri Gnatkevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u130	Vladimir Bondarenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Today, I would like to clarify to some extent the position of the “Julia Timoshenko Block” on yesterday's adoption of the Anti-Fraud Act. It's about that in some media outlets and some of the business structures that did this, there's a hysteria about what violates someone's rights, that they're losing their jobs, and so on. I pay attention to the arguments that the President has put forward. He said that these people would lose the licenses they had previously purchased. He said that the budget would be hugely lost. He also says that it is necessary to protect those who have done this work socially, and now he has lost it. I want to give you other arguments that we think are much more important. Is it not appropriate to recreate the infrastructure of cities that are affected by gambling? Play gastronomy, dairy stores, vegetable shops, cafes, children's clubs, mails that have recently turned into “methrodekpots”, “josses” and so on? I think it's more important to citizens today than the game vachanalia and the material base that's passed on to them. We also feel that we need to preserve the health and financial condition of families that today are sometimes in trouble because their drunken offspring lose everyone without money, thus putting the family in a difficult situation, sometimes leading to the suicide of parents and relatives. I'd also like to look at one of the features that nobody talks about, mostly about money. But when youths, youths, and girls are forced to think that they should not work, that they should not learn, that they can win, that is, that they change their desire to learn, to work, to earn, to earn, to earn money, and that they can all be won, and to be rich and happy just because you are playing. I would like to point out that the President's arguments do not stand up to any criticism, because the actions of these people who do not cancel this job can be replicated when special gaming zones are created away from the main cities, from the children's institutions, from the cities and villages where they can, those who already want to go there very much, but have already gone a few levels of control so that those who have already fallen into the booze are not actually playing, and are now dependent. I want to say that the social protection of these people will be provided in general order, and that they have once engaged in productive activities in different spheres of life and return to them, for the better. For some time they were the first to go and work as an engineer who had worked as an engineer, a teacher who had worked as a teacher before, because there is no college in Ukraine that cooks crucifixes and so on. At the same time, these people need to retrain and get back to community service. And I would like to say that we shouldn't blindly support the proposals made by the President is a healthy view of the whole situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u131	Thank you. I would like to invite Yuri Gnatkiewicz, given that Alexander Staschenko had given him the floor for six minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u132	Yuri Gnatkevitch, Yulia Timoshenko Block. Dear Ukrainian community! I would like to take you back to the famous Ukrainian council of village heads, which was held about a month ago at the Prime Minister's initiative. I was at this meeting, not with the deputies sitting in front, but with the delegation of their Rodowilovsky district of Plains to hear what people are saying and how they are taking this meeting. I've found that this kind of action is definitely to be done, because people are interested, even rural heads, they're sitting in their villages, they're waiting for their silhouettes, they're counting how much money they don't have, they're digging into cities, because they still have cities. And such trips to Kiev, such meetings with the leaders, with ministers, are of great interest to them. My rural head, Hanna Djobak, who even managed to break through with several sentences for an interview, said that she was extremely interested in being in Kiev with her colleagues and seeing the live premiere. It's a bad thing not all the deputies came, there were no members of the Party of Regions at all, they ignored the meeting. When I listened to Julia Volodymyrna, I mentioned my card, which I distributed in my district before the elections, it was called “How Will Julia Save the Village? ” And I was very glad that a few positions from this card went into effect, and I remember when the first talks went on about the possibility of a new parliamentary election, another parliamentary election. I gave this card to Julia Volodymyrni and said: “Julia Volodymyrna, not the parliamentary elections, should go, but the village should be saved.” One of the promises from this card was to bring agricultural production closer to the village and to sell it to the city. The program on the agro-industry complex in our BJT program, part of the program, was called “City and Village”, it is understandable because the peasant, but meat and fat are grown in the village and eaten in the cities. If a farmer were to sell, not live cattle and live pigs, but sausages, not flour, but bread and pasta, not milk, but butter, he would normally find it convenient to work on the earth. In fact, milk, which, according to the village head of the village of Brezina, of my district, also said in an interview that it was cheaper now. Julia Volodymyrna remembered her childhood and said that she was running with a poor girl in Dnipropetrovsk and was buying milk directly from milk trucks, and she talked about how many refrigerant refrigerators and milk trucks could now be purchased and she would purchase them in Japan to enable farmers to sell milk directly and directly in the city. And Julia Volodymyrna was 20 years younger than I was, and I was already the head, a more loyal member of the Supreme Council, lived in Oblon, and I also ran with the poor guy in 92 to the milk trucks. What is the greatest suffering of peasants today? He has always been mocked by all the Russian kings, with all the Kremlin leaders — the Communists once called the capitalists the most angry enemies of the workers. And today the peasant's worst enemy is the middleman. I think it's the same communists they'd be planted as speculators. Julia Volodymyrovna spoke about the organization of wholesale markets in the town of peasants, and she told of an experiment in Dnipropetrovsk when they sent one peasant to sell meat — five minutes before they came to him and said get out! A few minutes later, his car was literally beaten to disappear from the market. The meeting was also about the problem of local numerals and fossils. I was welcomed by the head of the district administration – Igor Palletko, he told me that he was not in charge of the process, he could drive the area, he could see how the trade was developed, and he didn't know who allowed it, and who the money was going for it. By the way, I have in the village of Elder such a Lord Kraynik who has raised an old brick factory and sought permission to develop clay, so he's been waiting for him from Kiev for three years. I advised him to prepare a bribe and go to Kiev, and it happens from the authorities that fine him for developing these earthworms, little cops I used to ride on these earthworms in the winter. And he has to wait for an answer from Kiev, and he's been waiting for it for three years. Julia Volodymyrna said, because not one village head spoke out with this problem, she said that she would “take a hard time.” By the way, I listened to all this without waiting for the Cabinet of Ministers to submit their bill, and I went there and said that such a bill was being prepared. I myself introduced a bill that provides for changes to today’s Nadra Code, which is the right to special permits for the development of local nadr. I mean, what's local nadra? It's clay, sand, jaundice, eventually it can even be water. To allow this to happen to local government environmental authorities, and we recommend the pay to be differentiated and deferred. Because let's say one factory does 100,000 bricks a day and it has to pay 170,000 dollars a license, and another one produces 10,000 and it has to pay 170,000. I'm just afraid, dear friends of mine, respected colleagues and respected peasants! What, in the terms of our Supreme Council, are these laws, these proposals of Julia Volodymyrni simply will not pass, will they fail, and by the way, six (???) We are no longer included in the agenda, for we are not voted in the way we should be better.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u133	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u134	Now young people say "type" to touch and desalinate the Prime Minister and our fragile coalition. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u135	I invite Yuri Prokopchuk to prepare Yuri Karmazin for the faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u136	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues, my dear countrymen are equal citizens of the Plains! On May 27th of this year, the business of the city of Equine was stopped, or one of the largest chemical enterprises in Ukraine and strategic enterprises in Equine Nitrogen. VAT employees are given standard forms, an application for a three-day working week, which they must forcely submit to the company administration. [[I'm demonstrating the form of the statement.]] I can show you that these forms have already been written by over three and a half thousand people, and it's all done on a voluntary basis, it's all done with a great desire to reduce the length of the work week and accordingly get a lower salary. Rumors of further mass liberation are now spreading among the workers. In the presence of a violation of human constitutional rights at work, according to part three of article 32 of the Ukrainian Labour Code, the administration should have warned workers in two months of the change in the essential working conditions that had not been made. Thus, workers could spend two months preparing for such a deterioration in their working conditions as well as their living conditions. For most workers, there is no clear reason to stop the business, since other chemical enterprises in Ukraine work. Therefore, the VAT stop “Equineazote” appears to be political. I am addressing the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Yulia Timoshenko, Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Ludmila Denisov, today people really believe and hope only for your help, Julia Volodymyrna, because you and your team are the only hope of the Ukrainian people and, above all, people working to combat the negative phenomena in the economy and to cope with the consequences of the world crisis. I also call on the owners of the company "Rivneazot" to not destroy the business, because at each such enterprise the most valuable are the professional personnel who worked there for their conscious lives, which can benefit both Equality and Ukraine as a whole. Therefore, please consider my statement to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine by asking to respond urgently to the halting of the budgeting firm and the mass transfer of workers to a reduced working day. The Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine is required to examine the situation that has arisen in the area of violations of constitutional and labour laws, the work team of the WAT “Rivneazon”. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u137	I ask our staff of the secretariat to prepare such a protocol commission to the prosecution and to the Cabinet of Ministers regarding the situation that has arisen in the "Sevenezot" situation and we expect the government to intervene in this situation. I would like to invite Yuri Carmazin to the floor, considering that the national deputy Constantinople gave him his word, Rules 6 Minutes. Get ready for Lily Grigorovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u138	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense. Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! Dear Ukrainian people! I would also like to address high - ranking judges who may hear me. Which some of the Supreme Court are now busy preparing for the Supreme Court Plenary Order on some of the issues that arise in court practice when administrative administrations are adopted and administrative appeals to judges and courts are being considered. The terrible situation today is in the judicial sphere. Today, I have a half - mile [half] increase in the number of citizens who suffer from a home invasion. Protecting ourselves by means of the Order of the Plenary from making changes, in fact, the law is not only illegal, not just unconstitutional, but also immoral. So I would like this project not to become a reality, which is why I want to say it. That what is being prepared in this draft decree is that there will be an artificial basis for a completely uncontrollable seductory of judges in their actions or inactions, which at present may be subject to control by society through the constitutional mechanism. The possibility of being held accountable by the Supreme Council for the application of the Supreme Council of Justice, as well as by the mechanism of disciplinary responsibility of judges before the disciplinary commissions of judges and the Higher Qualifications Commission of Judges. Each part of the project is surprising, and reflected non-professionalism degrades the status of the Supreme Court. What do they predict? They predict that on one line, on one line, I quote simply. Misappropriation by the courts of their procedural actions and decisions does not result in approvals, and others by the name of the form or presentation of documents, in parentheses, do not alter the essence of such documents. [[emails, notes, resolutions, messages]] They may be charged in a manner that is in force at the time of the act by procedural law. You can imagine what could happen if, for example, the judge spoke to the party, did so on behalf of the State, and could not be considered a judicial authority. Where does this come from? I'll give you an example of Kharkiv. On the same day, when the issue of the issue of the issue of land is being considered by a local council in court, he deals with the matter in relation to the city council. And the applicants are asking what is being done when Judge Sixak Alexander Ivanovich appears on the territory of the cultural park and the holiday “Meet” 10 hundred and 12 more for the agricultural work of so-called so-called farmers. [[Frunzen district]] And the people are also writing in the lawsuits, writes the prosecutor Rossocha, that the honorable are to be taken away from the judge. You can't do that in the environment that's going on in Kharkiv County, and I've seen the cover going up. That's why people go to the Supreme Council, to the High Council of Justice for the saviour that happens, for total corruption when the hand washes its hand. I would like to draw attention to the inadmissibility of adopting similar acts that will change the law, to the inadmissibility of such shameful practices as to solve the problems of the masters in mantiacies. And I want to draw your attention to the situation that we have at the National Bank of Ukraine. Today, the Supreme Council of Ukraine supported our parliamentary request by 319 votes to the President of Ukraine and confirmed that it would recognize the personal responsibility of the President of Ukraine for damage to citizens and the banking system in the event of failure to apply for discharge from the post of head of the National Bank of Ukraine of Stelma. Why? Because the National Bank, which has appointed temporary administrators of banks, does not take measures of influence and does not impose on those who do not want to return funds to investors, do not pay interest while using the funds of the investors, does not refer to the court for influence on the owners of the banks, and does not bring responsibility to persons whose actions have resulted in any way in the withdrawal of assets that would be sufficient to account for banks. Such a position cannot be without proper response from the Supreme Council. But the law provides for the Constitution, in particular article 85, part one, paragraph 18, of the Constitution: the release of the Supreme Council only at the request of the President. And there's no such thing as a fall. Moreover, the Nitzbank government passed Decree No. 413 of December 4, 2008, obliging commercial banks to apply all necessary measures to ensure positive growth in deposits, primarily in the national currency, in order to prevent early repayment of funds by investors that severely violate the requirements of article 1060 of the Civil Code, violates the Constitution of Ukraine. Later, Nazbank issued a letter prohibiting banks from making timely return of deposits, which is also grossly contrary to the laws in force. The cynical thing about the bank's actions is that, during a court hearing on 10 April 2009, in the Kiev District Administration, a representative of the National Bank's Legal Department stated that the letter was not prepared by the Legal Department, and it was not a legal document of the National Bank. It is not clear why the complainant refers to this letter when he makes his demands. So I ask, “When will the illegality in the banking system stop, when will the citizen of Ukraine be protected?” So I'm going to the Attorney General's Office, Finmonitoring, to take all immediate measures. Please form this address as a parliamentary request before.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u139	Thank you. I would also like to formulate as a parliamentary request for Yuri Carmazin’s request. I'd like to invite Lilia Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u140	Lilia Grigorovich, MP “For Ukraine!” Dear citizens of Ukraine, the distinguished Ukrainian people, paradoxically, but I am speaking last in the empty session hall, although we have an hour on the “Variance” and we have another 15 minutes. This is the result of Parliament's work on closed lists because it serves its political leaders, not Ukraine's national interests. There's no problem in the regions, because they don't go there; there's no problem with the electorate, there's only a redistribution of power. And this Parliament wanted to divide Ukraine into two. Dear voters, good people, you know, it's been said so much that conspiracy hasn't happened, that it's disgusting to me to comment on it again. Because I think the biggest lesson that Ukrainian politics has learned today, and most importantly, Ukrainian society has no right to have a parliament chosen on closed lists, to divide a country, to have no right to end the Constitution, because they serve once again the leaders, not the Ukrainian people. Dear friends, we often said that this freedom of speech gave us. And it's more than anything else, it's freedom of speech, it's the journalist who opened the door to a dark chamber where there was a conspiracy on both sides. You remember 2005, the sixth year, when universals or memorandums were written transparently, under the television cameras of the entire country, when the leaders of the nation, the elders introduced their remedies. And it's been working for months, not for 46 million, not in the face of a crisis, but just to divide the country into two. I'm sure the most important lesson is never going to happen again. People good, you know, it's been five years since Ukraine had its first load. I'd like to sum it up, well, what kind of credit debit was given to Ukraine by today's Prime Minister, today's President and today's leader of the opposition. I'll start with the President. The fact is that the same freedom of speech that exists in Ukraine has prevented the threat of a constitutional coup. The other one. I am happy to be able to lead my grandchildren, and you, your children, to the sanctuary of Baturina, to say that we are not today. I am happy to have 450 children every day. When I see what the Prime Minister has done? Where is the reform in what field? None. But the debts that we owe our children and grandchildren a hundred years ahead are those deals of gas and a lot of other things. I see what Prime Minister Janukovic did. - Zero. Protecting his faction members, protecting Czarnomirdin. Where is the protection of Ukraine? Therefore, my dear ones, it is time to stop looking for the messiahs, Jeanne D’Ark, and to choose responsible authority and to take responsibility for those whom we have assigned to change the country, otherwise it will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-12-m0.u141	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the hour of the “Virgin” is over. I just want to remind our radio audience that the form of spending an hour on the "Variance" question does not provide for the participation of the national MPs in the session room. It is the right of a national deputy to speak about the situation that has arisen in his constituency or to respond to the situation in the country. I remind you that next week the Supreme Council is working in committees, factions and districts. On Wednesday, June 17th, at 3 p.m. in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, there will be parliamentary hearings on the theme “The 2010-2020 Innovation Strategy for Ukraine in Globalisation Challenges”. Parliamentary hearings will take place in the session hall, as voted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Finally, I would like to respond to a number of warnings made by national MPs in connection with the latest statement made by the head of the PRSP secretariat on the possibility of parliamentary parliamentary elections for the term. This statement states that the level of confidence in the Supreme Council is extremely low and obviously must be the cause of the parliamentary elections for the term. Unfortunately, low trust today not only in Parliament but also in all the structures of power, but many politicians working in the Supreme Council have a sufficiently high degree of popularity. Unfortunately, this cannot be commended by the President today, so obviously the President's team will have to understand that if we take the basis of confidence, Ukraine would obviously have to conduct the presidential and parliamentary parliamentary sessions first. I am absolutely convinced that Parliament will work, make the necessary decisions and guarantee a stable situation in Ukraine. Let me also remind you that the next planning session will take place on Tuesday, June 23, at 10 a.m. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed.
