ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. Invite MPs, cancel for now. Invite the deputies to the session room. Please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:03:11]] There were 421 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, allow me to welcome you, in your persons, the Ukrainian people with the New Year's, Christmas and today's festivals, and together with the day of the National Deputy of Jury Mikol Volodymyrovich. And wish health to all. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, our work is being led by the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Yulia Volodymiri Timoshenko. We agreed yesterday at the Conciliation Council meeting with the heads of factions and committee heads on the list of issues proposed for consideration at this plenary week, and especially today, on Tuesday, January 13. What are our observations, warnings? Please, five minutes, Your Honor, sign up for communication. Here comes the recording. Five minutes, please. Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u2	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The schedule of meetings is, more specifically, a draft agenda for this week's plenary is given to us. The Lithuanian bloc believes that it is sufficiently balanced that the issues that are there today and with which we have to work during this plenary week are not conflict-proof, are those that must be addressed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So we think that this week the Supreme Council should work intensively and at the same time effectively. And maybe Vladimir Mikhailovich, ask the question that this week we will work more than usual, and that the evening sessions will continue until the entire list of issues is considered, which is scheduled for every day of this week. And, if possible, many questions will be considered by a simplified procedure. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u3	Next Ivan Stepanovich Plush, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u4	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Please give the floor to the leader of the Viacheslav Kirilenko faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u5	Viacheslav Kirilenko, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u6	Viacheslav Kirilenko, head of the “For Ukraine” MP group, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” faction. It is certainly encouraging for the honourable colleagues that the government led by the Prime Minister has arrived at the meeting room. Obviously, it will be about gas. The “For Ukraine” group is concerned that the entire Christmas season of Ukraine has been subject to harshness, if not cruel information attacks by the Russian Federation. Involuntary statements made by representatives of the Russian authorities should receive a proper assessment in the Ukrainian Supreme Council. In this regard, the “For Ukraine” MP and I, as a national MP, have made a draft decision on the assessment of the gas conflict that has recently arisen between Ukraine and Russia, and we ask that it be placed in the agenda today, as this issue is now a matter of great importance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u7	Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, Communist faction
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u8	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, honourable citizens of Ukraine, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, yesterday when a decision was made regarding the energy issue that stands today in the first order of the day. There was an agreement that you, as Head of the Supreme Council, I take it, had a commission from the Conciliation Council to invite the President of Ukraine here. This is very important because the first person of the state, this is the first. And secondly, the problems that have arisen in Ukraine, which have artificially imposed Ukraine, are largely from the head of state, from the President of Ukraine. Therefore, consideration of this issue must take place with the direct involvement of the President of Ukraine, not of a person authorized by him, but of him personally, in order to place all emphasis on Ukraine’s foreign political activities and, in particular, on what is happening in gas issues. So once again, I insist that this issue should be addressed directly by the President.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u9	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u10	Dear colleagues, we insist and insist that today, and if not today, the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the people of Ukraine hear a real, untrue, non-false report as always on the state of energy security. [[Zaporozhye, Jaroslav Suhi, Party of Regions]] We don't need propaganda, we don't need another lying show. The situation is threatening, especially for the industrial regions of our country. There's a new wave of reduction, a sharp decline in production volume, and from here all the negative effects, including on the social sphere of our nation. Who is to report to us today, and what does the minister have to do with the negotiations with Russia on gas? Why doesn't the one who was supposed to do this report, why doesn't the Prime Minister and the one who dealt with the gas issues report? And another thing, we invited the President. Either he doesn't give a shit or he hasn't been known. I'd like to get an answer today, after all, who sent Yvchenk and Placzkov to Moscow in the summer of 2005.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u11	Give me a chance to finish. 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u12	The point is, on many occasions in this session hall and on live air, I was trying to find out who sent Yvchenka and Plačkov to Moscow in the summer of 2005 to break the most advantageous gas agreement in Ukraine by January 1, 2009? Today’s trouble begins from there.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u13	Thank you. Trophimenco, Timoshenko Street.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u14	Please pass the word to Kirilenko Ivan Grigorievich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u15	Ivan Kirilenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u16	Set it up. Vladimir Mikhailovich, stand to zero.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u17	From zero, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u18	Dear Head and colleagues! Yesterday, at the Conciliation Council meeting, our faction insisted on a review today, on Tuesday, immediately after the gas information on issues related to the activities of the National Bank, namely the draft decision of the Temporary Investigation Commission No. 3547, which requires the resignation of the National Bank’s leadership, draft law No. 3585, which regulates a number of problems accumulated in the banking sphere, and above all provides more effective control, including parliamentary supervision, of course formation, refinancing and credit policies. We don't understand why these questions are delayed, because the situation continues to get worse. After the Christmas weekend, the bracelets again fell by 25 percent unwarrantedly, twice as much imports and other essential goods and services that tied to the dollar. Nazbank has also completely ignored the Supreme Council's decree of December 26, and the State Budget Act continues to be a destructive policy for the country's economy, for millions of compatriots and investors and borrowers. These are unacceptable things, so we insist on addressing these issues immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u19	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've been exchanging thoughts about organizing our work during this plenary week as well as today. Let me talk to you about your suggestions. Suggestions -- let's start with the last John Kirilenko. We agreed, Your Honor, on the Conciliation Council that we're going to refer to the committee, I'm going to read the transcript so that he can immediately consider Bill 3585. And along with this bill, which deals with the financial sphere, we will consider proposals from the commission of inquiry in the form of a draft ruling. So I would ask if the Supreme Council of Ukraine would agree that we would now assign a committee to, let's say, hold a meeting, define these documents, and after considering the first question, we've identified the next problem in the financial and banking sphere, if you don't have any objections. I think that in order for us to make a decision, after considering the first question, we're going to have to hold another session of the Conciliation Council, because there are a number of bills on this subject, draft regulations, in particular, that will break the position in the session room. I think then we'll discuss this question, make a clear decision. With regard to Peter Stepanovich Zibenk's proposal regarding the invitation of the President of Ukraine. Yesterday, I spoke to the president for a commission from the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In addition to everything else, we sent a letter to the President of Ukraine at your own request. The president of Ukraine held a large meeting at 10: 30 p.m. and unfortunately declared that he could not participate. This is his right, not his duty. We don't have a chance. I understand your position, I'll inform you of the essence. Next. Viacheslav Kirilenka’s proposal for a decision. Dear colleagues, when we discuss the matter, we will consider all the decisions made in this regard, including the decision of our esteemed colleague Viacheslav Anatoliovich Kirilenko. Regarding the proposals made by Zarubinsky’s colleague for the consideration of the reduced procedure and the holding of the evening meeting until all of these matters have been completed. I, my fellow Members, would ask you to support us to vote on the following bills, except for the first question. Please vote. [[10:14:16]] For 225 Decision taken. Now for the second offer, pay attention! – to continue the evening session until the finalization of Tuesday 13 January's scheduled issues. Please vote. [[10:14:48]] For the 220. The decision is not taken. The factions? Please. Region Party – 1, Block Timoshenko – 153, "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" – 46, Communist faction – 0, "Block of Lithuania" – 20. Dear colleagues! The issue of the state of Ukrainian-Russian gas relations and the situation of Ukraine's energy supply, the transit of natural gas by its territory to European consumers is under review. So there's a comprehensive approach to this. The regulations proposed by the committee for information to the government for up to 25 minutes, namely: the report by the Minister of Fuel and Energy of Ukraine, Yuri Vasilovich, Sold up to 10 minutes; answers to questions from members of the national parliaments up to 15 minutes; in order to discuss the issue, it is suggested that we proceed from factions to 10 minutes, as we agreed in connection with the fact that we are not making statements from factions today. The chairman of the committee requests five minutes. For the factions, I said, and to discuss the issue, 30 minutes, that is, for all of the MPs, to be willing to participate in the discussion. Is there no objection to the Rules? Do we have to vote or do we agree? Dear colleagues! In view of our need to withdraw from the Rules, I will read the suggestions again. For government information -- 25 minutes, 10 minutes -- report 15 minutes -- answers to questions. The factions' performances are up to 10 minutes. To discuss the matter in 30 minutes, it's the MPs, for that matter. And the committee head is up to five minutes. Then move on to making a decision. Is there no objection? I would like to vote in favour of this Rules on this issue. [[10:17:11]] For 375 Decision taken. Minister of Fuel and Energy Yuri Vasilovich Prodan is invited to the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u20	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Ladies and gentlemen! Vladimir Mikhailovich, given that there was a need for a detailed explanation of the situation under consideration today, I would like to extend the length of my report to 17 minutes. If that's possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u21	Dear colleagues! Let's do this: the report will go, the time will coincide, we'll ask for support to be able to explain all the problems. Is there no objection? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u22	Thank you. I'd like to start with the good news. Last night our delegation returned from the Council of Ministers of Energy of European Countries. You know that the Council of Ministers assessed the actions of the Ukrainian authorities of NAK Naftogazu as responsible, and this morning, at 9 a.m., the restoration of Russian natural gas supplies to European countries begins. But before I give you any information about the latest events and the situation today, I would like to remind you of what our government faced earlier last year. This situation was characterized by a lack of agreement on the price of imported natural gas and virtually no contracts for 2008 for gas supply. In fact, there were no international bilateral agreements. NAK Naftogaz virtually did not have its own gas in Ukraine’s shelters. The company’s debt for imported natural gas on January 1, 2008, amounted to some 5.2 billion dollars. NAK Naftogaz lost half of the natural gas market in Ukraine, namely, industrial consumers. You know, in the natural gas market in Ukraine, there was a middleman, basically one mediator, Ukrgazenergo. As one of the measures aimed at solving the problems and creating conditions for the permanent functioning of the economy, the Government of Ukraine identified the need for a long-term, transparent transition, stressing, without intermediaries, contractual relations in gas supply and transit. In April of this year, with the results of negotiations at the highest national level, an agreement was concluded between NAC “Naftogaz” Ukraine and VAT “Gazprom”, which largely addressed the problems of previous periods, NAK “Naftogaz” was returned to the internal market for natural gas. At the same time, the issue of long-term contracts was addressed within the Economic Cooperation Committee and the relevant commission. The NAC “Naftogaz” of Ukraine and the VAT “Gazprom” were commissioned to develop and sign long-term agreements by the end of November both for the supply of natural gas and its transit into Ukraine. It should be noted that the negotiations were conducted within the framework of the relevant general directives approved by the President of Ukraine. The issue of contracts for gas supply and transit was the main topic during the talks between the Prime Minister of Ukraine and the Prime Minister of the Russian Federation last October. As a result of the negotiations, the prime ministers signed a memorandum setting out the principles on which arrangements were to be reached already at the level of host subjects between NAK Naftogaz, Ukraine and VAT Gazprom. These basic points are: support, in fact, commission for the making of direct contracts, without intermediaries between NAK Naftogaz, Ukraine and VAT Gazprom. In doing so, it was agreed that the debt owed to Gazprom VAT for the gas put in and consumed by Ukrainian consumers should be repaid. And this debt, as you know, I confirm, was repaid by the end of this year. Thus, the main requirement for direct direct communication was met. Another principle was the arrangement for the gradual transition of three years to economically agreed prices for both gas and its transit. On the basis of the mentioned memorandum between NAC “Naftogaz” and VAT “Gazprom”, an agreement was signed in which companies agreed on the basis of the relevant memorandum to sign the respective contracts by 1 November last year. During October-November, several rounds of negotiations were held between the NAC leadership Naftogaz Ukraine and the VAT “Gazprom”, but agreement was not reached. Prices for the supply and transit of natural gas remain a major non-conformity. In formulating its proposals, the Ukrainian side emerges from today’s situation in Europe’s natural gas markets, the need to link the price of natural gas to the cost of alternative fuels that can be replaced by natural gas, and the level of market prices for transit services that exist in European countries. The last - minute proposals made by the Russian side for the Ukrainian side were unacceptable. As a result of these proposals, the NAC Naftogaz gas transport system would actually add up to about $500 million to the Russian side. If you talk about other proposals that were made by the Russian side, you know, it was the price and $418 per thousand meters of cubic and $450, so this price didn't correspond at all to those previous agreements that were reached both at government level and at management level, and this position on the Russian side was certainly completely unconstructive. At the same time, the Russian transit rate was proposed by the Russian side to leave at last year’s level unchanged. Now with regard to developments, starting January 1st. Dr. Zucker: Limitationology, I'd like to give you a slide presented on the slide. On January 1st, at 9 a.m., the gas was completely cut off from the GHS “Save” and at 11.20 a.m. from the GSC “Suja”. Such actions were not in line with NAC Naftogaz's control services and created substantial inconveniences to ensure transit flows to GHS Druzdowicz towards Poland. The gas supply was reduced to 318 million cubic metres. The supply cut-off scheme in Ukraine was used in such a way as to disorganize as much as possible the operation of the Ukrainian gas transport system. The Watt Gazprom, which limits the gas supply through the GHS, which is located on gas pipelines that provide the eastern regions of Ukraine where the metallurgical and chemical enterprises are located, has tried to stop the actual operation of these enterprises. A further stop at Gazprom’s VAT on gas through Platonovo’s GSC created conditions for leaving the city of Mariupol and Berdjansk out of gas. The complete cessation of gas from the Russian Federation took place on the morning of January 7, at a time when the temperature of external air in Ukraine, as in Europe, began to decline sharply. In spite of this, the Ukrainian side provided transit of natural gas to European consumers, although it could not formally do so, because there was no actual agreement, there were no technical agreements that ensured the direction and volume of natural gas supply. Thus, full contracts allowing NAC Naftogaz to transit Ukraine are not available. To ensure transit to Europeans. In fact, in order to ensure the transit of gas to European countries, Ukraine has used 74 million cubic metres of its own gas in six days. We have thus shown that Ukraine is a reliable gas transitor to Western European countries and is, and will remain, a transitor. All this time, I emphasize, to meet the internal needs of natural gas, the gas accumulated in 2008 is used in our underground vaults, the gas of our own production. It should be noted that in order to avoid the shocking situation that we had in early 2006 and which led to the conclusion of agreements exclusively on the unfavourable Ukrainian side, we have begun to store natural gas in shelters in advance. The amount of natural gas accumulated compared to previous years is increased by 2.37 times compared to the previous year, the NAC's own Naftogaz Ukraine. [[specified in the corresponding chart]] The increase in gas production in Ukraine too. At the same time, enough coal reserves have also been created at thermal power plants, one and a half times that last year, the largest of the last 10 years, and today the amount of coal in power stations is 1.8 times that of last year. Urgent measures have also been taken to store oil at power stations. And the stocks, and the measures that have been taken, will allow, for a long time, of course, a reasonable natural gas economy to provide a constant supply to Ukrainian consumers. Since the end of the arrival of natural gas in Ukraine’s GTS and, as a result, the European side has been actively involved in the conflict with the initiative of the Ukrainian side. During the period since January 1, much of the efforts made by the Ukrainian side have been devoted no longer to solving how many questions about the supply of natural gas to Ukraine, and these negotiations have also been conducted, but also to the negotiations on the renewal of the transit of natural gas to European countries. And this was properly appreciated by the European community. First, we proved that Ukraine did not stop the transit of natural gas and thereby minimize the negative effects of Ukraine's international image. And secondly, as I said before, they've actually restored the transit territory of Ukraine for today. The first meetings of the Ukrainian delegation, which I presided over as President of Ukraine and Prime Minister, were held in Bratislava, Prague and Berlin. The main task of the meetings was to provide objective information and to involve European experts in the dispute over the supply and transit of natural gas. On 8 January, the Ukrainian delegation, under the direction of the Prime Minister of Ukraine in charge of Deputy Prime Minister Nemirei, took part in an extraordinary joint meeting of the Committee of the European Parliament on Foreign Affairs on the situation surrounding the supply of gas to Ukraine and the transit of gas to EU member countries, should be noted that the Russian delegation did not appear in spite of prior agreement. On January 9, Minpalevenergo and NAK Naftogaz took part in a meeting of the Eurocomsia Gas Coordination Group. At the meeting, representatives of the coordination group expressed genuine surprise and misunderstandings about the Russian side. I will not appreciate today the considerable amount of false information that has been given to Russian officials and Russian media and has been directed towards creating in European consumers the image of Ukraine as the culprit for halting gas supply. To a large extent, we have been able to neutralize this image. Sadly, though, the stream of false information on the Russian side does not stop today and intensify. On 8 January, when meeting the EU Commissioner on energy issues, Pibalgs signed the corresponding proposal by the European Commission, as well as us, a memorandum on the creation and start-up of the monitoring group on gas supply to the EU countries in Ukraine. At the same time, it was agreed to provide information support on prices and tariffs operating in Europe. This is particularly important in terms of the conclusion of our next long-term contracts with the Russian Federation. Another protocol has been signed today, and there are no formal barriers to restoring Russian gas supplies today. I would like to emphasize that the situation in the internal market today is stable, there's a full-scale use of back-up fuel at heat stations, there's a lot of oil burning instead of gas, and TEC has moved on to the use of oil to produce electricity. There are some problems with the calculations today, especially I would like to point out some of the actions of self-government agencies that unfortunately today are creating problems of calculation. I would like to remind you of the problem that is now taking place in Kiev, when local authorities today do not actually compensate for the difference in tariffs of about 700 million dollars, and accordingly this debt and this liability for debt lie with the Kiev authorities. So in summary, I want to say this one more time. The Russian side actually deviated from the agreements reached at the level of government leadership. The current crisis will be difficult to resolve only in the energy dialogue between Ukraine and the Russian Federation. There is a need to expand the range of issues in which the balance of interests can be achieved, as well as the circle of participants in the negotiation process, by involving the European side. And in fact, this confirmation, yesterday my conversation with the European Commissioner for Energy, Pibalgs, was reached that the European side would join in making appropriate long-term arrangements. We're continuing the negotiation process with the Russian Federation. Of course, it is based on our previous arrangements. We confirm our position towards a direct transparent relationship with a phased, projected transition to market principles of price formation for gas and transit prices. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u23	Dear colleagues, the Minister's report has been completed. Please sign up for a question, 20 minutes for a question, or 15, to be exact. 15 minutes per question. On board, please, are the names of the national MPs who sign up for questions. Roman Tjak, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u24	Please tell Kowala.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u25	Viacheslav Koval, faction "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Yuri, it is now possible that the negotiations will restore the gas supply to Europe today. And so, Ukraine can be left alone, one against our powerful friend, who has gas measures.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u27	What I mean is, will Ukraine be able to stand in negotiations against Russia at a time when gas supplies will be restored to Europe? That's one block of question. And the second question is, who is it? and why it wasn't signed 31 or 30.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u28	Let me finish this question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u29	A document that would provide gas supplies to Ukraine, although all based on the media, it was known that everything was agreed and the document must be signed. Then why is that? Because of Russia's position or any other circumstances? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u30	Thank you for asking. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I've already talked about what has been achieved in the previous agreement that the European Community is interested and will join our negotiating process with the Russian Federation, well, as experts. The corresponding prices in Europe today for gas transit will be presented to the Ukrainian side. Because we in the European community today have confirmed our reputation, demonstrated our constructive approach, and confirmed our need. and confirmed that we are a reliable gas transitor to the countries of Europe, yet we expect that we will not be alone in this situation with the Russian Federation. And we also think that because there's been some compromise about gas transit, there's some good steps on the side. the Russian side so that we can start today intensively negotiating our contracts. What?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u31	Yes, let me complete the answer to the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u32	On the second question of why the negotiations had stopped, I said, was stopped because of the unconstructive position of the Russian side when it offered a gas price of $250 per thousand cubic meters, without changing the corresponding price for transit. As a result, we would have added to the damage of 450 million dollars. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u33	Victor Terrence, Timoshenko Yuli Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u34	Victor Terrence, Timoshenko Street. The Ukrainian government has consistently advocated the removal from the gas market of “Rosukrenerego”. But most of the Ukrainian frauds, which directly raise money from the population, are already in. Rosukrenergo, with 48 per cent of the company's shares, belongs to Firtash, who in his own time actively penetrated the President's Secretariat and the issue of privatization of fraud. And you know that "Rosukrenerego" is collecting money from the population today, but it just doesn't give it to Naftogazu and then cynically states that Ukraine didn't count with Russia. And so the question is, what do we do with UkriEnergo? Judgement? This is a long and wet business, because the Kremlin is not just the Kremlin, but there are political forces in our country that are doing everything they can to force our government to sign a gas agreement with this same gang "Roskre Energo." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u35	I already confirm this, we have repeatedly confirmed at the official level that the Ukrainian side has been set up and has a principle of positioning direct direct contracts without any intermediaries who, unfortunately, have been operating in Ukraine's gas supply system in the past. That is why we do not reject the trials that the NAK “Naftogaz Ukraine” is conducting today. Today, we have significantly strengthened the contractual relationship between the NAC “Naftogaz of Ukraine” and the polygamy. We have prepared an appropriate bill, which today envisions the introduction of a temporary gas - management mechanism if they fail to comply with their obligations, primarily with the calculation of the imported gas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u36	Anatoly Kirilovich Kinach, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u37	Thank you. Dear Yuri Vasilovich, clearly, the level of energy security of Ukraine has fallen sharply over the last period, and your unprofessional, unsuspecting report once again confirms the failure of the Ukrainian authorities to resolve the energy crisis. Ukraine's destructive regulatory base of relations between Ukraine and Russia, Ukraine's lost direct link with Central Asia, is rapidly falling under Ukraine's authority as a transitor state. In November-December, industrial production in Ukraine dropped below 30 percent. The analogy was only in June 1941. A halted chemical industry, 30 percent of the mining and metallurgical complex loaded. Questions. Please, specifically, when the work of Ukraine's strategic economy will be restored and the normal viability of the people of our country. Just specifically, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u38	Dear Anatoly Kirilovich! Thank you for asking. I would like to say, first of all, that today we are on our way back to constructive cooperation with the Russian Federation. We're going back to our work and we're going back to those intergovernmental agreements that I'm very pleased that you've signed in terms of interaction with the Russian Federation. As to the specific question, you know that the government of Ukraine today has developed a package of crisis measures because there is a global financial crisis that has affected Ukraine today. Today a number of appropriate measures are already provided for in the adopted Law on the State Budget of Ukraine and, of course, the measures that the government is taking today to develop appropriate infrastructure projects that will significantly revitalize the internal market will produce results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u39	Jaroslav Kenzior, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u40	Jaroslav Kenzior, “For Ukraine” MP. Yuri Vasilovich! Now not only are we on the same page, but Europe has seen that Kremlin leadership as sailors in broad daylight is doing what they think is necessary. And we probably won't once again if we stay together with Russia and watch these actions of Kremlin leadership. Have you ever thought about proposing to the European Union that European states buy gas for themselves on the border of Russia and Ukraine, by taking gas, as it were on our border, we will depend on ourselves for transporting this gas to Ukraine, Western Europe. And already those cynical lies about Ukraine stealing gas, Russia won't be able to do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u41	Thank you for asking. First of all, in our meetings, the many meetings we had with the European Community, with the European Commission, we have really stressed that today the Russian Federation is full-scale, and Gazprom is legally accountable to gas suppliers to European consumers. And we have indeed suggested to our colleagues from the European Union that we are ready today to ensure proper transit if appropriate contracts are made at the border of Ukraine and Russia. Such a proposal is accepted by the European community. However, the question is that today all contracts are made by relevant entities from the gas supply of Ukraine and the European Federation, on which some influence has a significant impact, in part ownership, today and Gazprom. But this situation is supported by the European Commission. [[I'm underlining.]] For example, they will consider and offer such questions to gas suppliers in Europe.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u42	Victor Tikhov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u43	Please pass the word Boyko Yuri Anatoliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u44	Yuri Boyko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u45	Dear Yuri Vasilovich! I understand that for a year your government has fought heroically against the many enemies that surrounded you and, in fact, are engaged in this struggle, forgetting that the country needs gas. We don't have this blue fuel for 13 days now. Yes, please tell me the first question when you put it in the country -- once. And the second. Prime Minister Yanukovic's government, which you have just criticized, has left the cost of gas at the border of our country -- $179.5 per thousand cubes, with the cost of barrels of oil at that time being $97. Given that the barrel of oil has fallen -- the cost of it is up to $32 -- we think it would be a national betrayal if you went home for more than $200 than what was in our government. Yeah, the way you're going.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u46	Let me finish the question. Please, 10 seconds. Please finish the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u47	Please consider the question, if you sign the price of gas below what was signed by our government, it will be your national betrayal.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u48	Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor, Yuri Anatolyovich. I just want to remind you that it was the right contracts to fix the price of gas at $179.5 in U.S. gas supply to Ukraine that our government didn't pay for such contracts, we looked very hard for them, but they weren't, and I'm confirming that. And it was only in April of this year that our government ensured the conclusion of such corresponding contracts, excluding in fact from Ukraine's gas market today the middleman, another “Ukrgazenergo” mediator, and today the question is that there should not be any intermediaries left there, which unfortunately, because of your participation, were introduced into the gas market system in Ukraine. I'm talking about "Rosukreenergo". Now with regard to the supply of blue fuel, I have already said that today will be the re-supply of fuel to Ukraine, which will come to Ukraine to ensure the transit of gas to European countries, and this is the first step in which we will conduct appropriate successful negotiations with the Russian Federation to conclude a gas supply agreement in Ukraine. The price for gas will be shaped according to previous arrangements agreed upon by our prime ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u49	Give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u50	This is a gradual, gradual transition of three years to a market price for gas supply to Ukraine, as well as transportation to transit natural gas to Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u51	Valerius Bondik, “Parties of the Regions” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u52	Very systematic, professional questions asked by Yuri Anatoliovich Boyko, so please give him my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u53	Please, Yuri Boyko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u54	Thank you. Yuri Vasilovich, we witnessed an unprecedented phenomenon last week when the president of the neighbouring state accused your government of corruption, resulting in losses by Ukrainian consumers. Because when there was a gas on the $179.5 border, your government sold it to Ukrainian consumers for $313, and he said he didn't understand where the money went. So maybe you can explain to us where you divided this money, this excess margin that you got from the Ukrainian consumer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u55	Thank you for asking, Your Honor, Yuri Anatolyovich. I reiterate that today, in Ukraine's gas market, there is a state-owned company called NAC Naftogaz Ukraine, price formation today provided by the company with a transparent approval of the corresponding price level, the corresponding price level by the government of Ukraine and the National Commission for Electricity Regulatory of Ukraine. Clearly, if I have to give you, you clearly have all the costs that are at this price today. These prices in an appropriate manner, you did not say that these prices also provide for an appropriate level of transit payments, transport of gas, including highway and distribution networks, and corresponding revenues to the State budget as VAT and a price supplement adopted by Ukraine's relevant law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u56	National MP Smithukh, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u57	Yuri Vasilovich, I have two short questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u58	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u59	First question. First question. Please tell Ukraine to extract more than 20 billion cubic metres of gas from its own production. Please tell me, what is the price order for the population and the order in which this gas is used? Why is the Ukrainian population paying today’s price of gas, so - called? That's the first question. And the second question. Article 13 of the Constitution clearly states that the earth, the Nadra, is the property of the Ukrainian people, and this article states that property should not be used to the detriment of man and society. If, in your government today, national gas is used at higher prices or if you are not asking about the nationalization of natural gas crops in Ukraine and then the population can receive it, will there be a very cheap natural gas capable of providing the necessities? Thank you. Please answer specific questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u60	Thank you for asking. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that today the price of gas for the population is confirmed by the decision of the National Commission on Electricity Regulatory in Ukraine. This meeting is conducted in a transparent manner, including the invitation of the national deputies, and I will confirm today that there is no higher price for gas for the population, it today reflects the objective costs of gas companies and the corresponding costs of gas distribution, gas supply companies that are being put into the price. They are objective, and today the price level is objective. Questions about that. Today, the government is pursuing a targeted and rigid policy on those previous government joint action agreements, agreements on various types of activities that, unfortunately, today provided for the production of their own gas. This own gas was not needed for the population, but it was used for other consumers at higher prices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u61	Thank you. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Question completed. Alexander Lavrinovich has the question. Please, we're not at the rally. We're at a meeting of the Supreme Council. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u62	Dear Yuri Vasilovich, you have named the number of possible damages that the Ukrainian State would have suffered if the draft agreement was signed, which was proposed on December 31st. Please tell us, what is the amount of damage to Ukraine today due to the loss of the export potential of our chemical production, because of the lack of access to the state budget from a stop in production, and what social losses due to the loss of employment, which number of people, please also tell these companies that have ceased to work as a result of the non-signatories?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u63	Thank you for asking. I would like to point out that the corresponding decrease in natural gas consumption, in line with the decrease in electricity consumption, has also not been due to the fact that contracts are signed or not signed there today. Because Ukraine is now provided with gas attached to underground vaults with an adequate amount of gas for consumers. It is the global financial crisis that has affected the corresponding decline in production volumes of those enterprises that we are talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u64	Dear colleagues, if you don't want to listen, tell me. Sit down. Well, listen to me. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, please, the minister answers, coming out of being a minister. I'm asking you to listen. Well, please. Yes, let us finish the answer to the questions, dear colleagues. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u65	As for the specific amount of damage, today we have only entered into that line of global financial crisis that has reached Ukraine, and the damage can be estimated later, but not because of the gas supply in Ukraine, because today our customers are provided with gas supply, I reaffirm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u66	Yuri Vasilovich, thank you. Time's up. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the head of the committee, Mikola Volodymyrovich Martinenko. The chairman of the committee, Mikola Martinenko, is speaking. Then the faction leaders will speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u67	Thank you. Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u68	Let's all cry together. I want you to calm down again, because there's a lot of people on the phone, saying, "Smile." And you're crying. Calm down, please! Well, calm down, please. Please come in.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u69	Dear colleagues, we are all aware of the latest gas events. However, with your permission, I will make a concise assessment of today’s gas transit situation and the provision of Russian gas to Ukraine. First, gas transit will be initiated in the near future, but gas supply for the needs of the Ukrainian economy will not be restored at the same time. Secondly, the negotiating process at the level of the host subjects between Naftogaz NAK and Gazprom on the last issue has come to a dead end. Thirdly, the limited work of a large number of Ukrainian businesses has worsened the conditions for heating and providing hot water to the population in many cities of Ukraine. Fourthly, we have deliberately deteriorated our negotiating positions by agreeing to restore gas transit to the European Union without delivering gas to Ukraine to meet our international obligations. Fifthly, in almost two years of the current year instead of finding the real way out of the crisis, there are mutual accusations, including in our hall, and they offer inadequate both price for gas for Ukraine and transit tariffs. The range of these values changes, from zero to cloudy positions. Sixthly, we can continue this gas war for the rest of winter. Ukraine by further deterioration of its economic conditions, Russia – its economic conditions and the closure of its gas wells. But what will result from these destructive positions? This is the way to an economic divide and further deterioration of bilateral relations. To put it bluntly, another gas conflict struck not only Russia as a supplier country, but Ukraine's perception of the European community as a reliable transit state. So I want to propose some steps from the most important issues in gas relations in the EU-Ukraine-Russia triangle to stop the gas crisis. I'm going to start with steps that need to be taken urgently. First, we have to stop looking for the culprits or the winners of the gas war. There will be no winners. Economic losses are borne by all participants in the gas war — both European Union countries, Ukraine, and Russia. Moreover, the population in Ukraine and some EU countries is suffering. The other one. The efforts of all branches of government and experts within Ukraine to find ways to end the gas war must be brought together. Third. Now we have to move the negotiations to a higher level: it is the heads of the governments of the two countries, the heads of the governments of the two countries that have to resume the negotiation process. Fourth and foremost. For Ukraine, there is no clear economic basis for both gas prices and transit tariffs. There are some pretty wide ranges. In any case, these characteristics are the result of negotiations between the two sides, I would stress, just the two sides, but with the advice of the European Union. First of all, we need to identify common approaches to determining the interaction in the gas sector. If we don't have the opportunity to have a transitional period for the gradual introduction of market relations, which was provided in an intergovernmental memorandum -- and we've heard that the Russian side refuses to do so -- we have no other way out of this, from my point of view, how do we use the European Union practice in this area, where long-term contracts that have been in operation in Europe have been in place for over 40 years and have been sufficiently recommended. We need to introduce so-called Central European transit tariffs against so-called Central European prices for natural gas. Why "so-called"? Because they can be fundamentally different even in neighbouring EU countries. What are the contracts to be like? First, these should be long-term contracts for at least 10 years. Secondly, no intermediaries, only direct relations between NAK Naftogaz and Gazprom. Thirdly, long-term contracts should primarily contain the following: long-term obligations of the parties to guarantee the flow of fixed transit gas volumes and gas supplies to meet Ukraine's needs. Next is the definition of the price of gas based on a formula that provides for the use as a cost base of competing energy carriers. A few minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u70	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u71	And count in the base price of the gas after a certain period of time. This lie may be six or nine months old and gas price adjustment should be made according to price fluctuations for competing energy. So we're going to make pricing transparent and predictable, and the political influence of Russia by means of a gas factor is impossible. Finally, after addressing the problem of long-term contracts, it is essential to address the mature issue of reforming Ukraine's gas sector, taking into account the EU's gas directives. This involves eliminating price imbalances in own production and imported fuel, excluding cross-subsidisation of consumer credit categories, real protection of consumer rights, creating a favourable right field in the gas field and in the field of drug use and other approaches. The solution to the problem of gas sector reform should be the most important task, both for the Cabinet of Ministers and for the Supreme Council, and would create incentives for energy-saving technologies, which, together with the development of their own gas production, would dramatically reduce Ukraine's gas dependence on Russian gas and factor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u72	Yes, Your Honor, the speech of the committee head has been completed. We didn't anticipate questions. I want to say again: we voted, we approved the rules, please calm down. Come early, you want to come, ask him. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the faction leaders. Once again, the Supreme Council, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, has withdrawn from the Rules and approved the procedure and regulations for dealing with this issue within two hours. Calm down, please. Faction leaders or authorized factions, please log in. Please have the names of the people who signed up. Oleg Belarus, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u73	Please give the floor to the National Deputy Soboljev.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u74	Sergey Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u75	Dear colleagues, respectable radios, TV audiences! Since the question raised in Parliament today is, indeed, the only question that defines the state's development strategy, we would like to stop on behalf of the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko in those key positions that we define as priorities in addressing this issue. First, let's figure out what was the state of the Russian-Ukrainian relationship, the relationship that related to gas transit, gas calculations exactly a year ago. I would like to remind you that on January 1, 2008, the state of Ukraine entered into relations with the Russian Federation as a key supplier of gas, both in Ukraine and in Europe, with debts that amounted to almost 10 billion dollars. I would like to remind you that as of January 1, 2009, this is the first time in the history of the Ukrainian independent state that the state of Ukraine has entered with a full calculation of the gas that was put on the territory of Ukraine by the Russian Federation. Secondly, for today, in fact, the gas balance that we've had exactly a year ago and the situation for today is clearly different. If a year ago we were fed with promises that the gas at the shelter was initially 16 and then 18, then 21 billion cubic metres of gas, it turned out literally in January that all of this gas belonged to either Rosskre Energo or Ukrgazenergo or Gazprom. Real gas, which would belong to Naftogazu Ukraine, or to Ukrainian consumers, amounted to less than three billion cubic metres of gas. Secondly, on January 1, 2009, the first government of Ukraine secured 16.3 billion cubic metres of gas paid by Ukraine's Naftogaz, which makes it possible to maintain today's clear position on gas negotiations based on the fact that Ukraine is gas-supplied. Secondly, this is a key point that answers the following questions. The status of the agreements that we had on January 1, 2008, is actually two simultaneously valid agreements. The first agreement is an agreement since 2003, which directly linked the price of gas transit to the price of gas, which allowed under these conditions always to be linked to these key parameters. And as of January 1, 2009, we actually had two agreements. This 2003 agreement, which was not annulled in January 2006, and unfortunately, the shameful 2006 agreement, which was all factions of Parliament, both in 2006 and later, was recognized as violating the interests of the Ukrainian State and Ukrainian suppliers when the price of gas transit was cut off from the price of gas. And we got the result of the January 2006 agreements, actually only for six months the price of gas and for five years the price of gas transit has been fixed. The Ukrainian government has achieved that the January 2006 court ruling is one that does not suit Ukraine’s interests and is declared invalid, and today the 2003 agreement is recognized by the Ukrainian court’s rulings, which directly tied the price of gas to the price of gas transit. The third fundamental moment. In fact, for 2006, we had a scheme where the price of gas was fixed exclusively in the half-years. And today we have actually been able to negotiate for the first time in January 2009 not with empty gas shelters, not with the price dictated by our partners, but with the price that can be accepted for both the Russian Federation and the Ukrainian side. But what is the key position? Everyone understands. Since 2006, a company has entered the Ukrainian market, including representatives who have asked questions about the sale here, who have actually taken full control of Ukraine’s gas transport system. Mr. Firtash does not conceal that 75 percent of the fraud in Ukraine today is owned by him. I have one question that we're asking from the faction before the government. Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. First Deputy Prime Minister, buying 75 per cent of counterfeit shares today is actually a violation of Ukraine's monopoly legislation. Secondly, this purchase is not a purchase, the pipelines, which according to Ukrainian legislation belong to “Naftogazu” of Ukraine, which is why we asked you to immediately review the agreements that passed on the gas pipeline to manage the gas pipeline. This will immediately remove the issue of blackmailing Ukraine by politicians such as Firtash, and it is with them. Secondly, we actually have a situation today where a company that speculates that seems to be mixing Russian gas with Central Asian gas has actually tried to control all the key businesses in Ukraine. In fact, we had a situation when, during 2006, the seventh and eighth years of the population that paid for the Naftogaza Ukraine and paid for the tax rates that were fixed today by the Government of Ukraine, and the businesses of Ukraine that had the opportunity to pay, virtually all of them paid for the company Ukrgazenergo, where the same figure is Firtash, who has already become the figure for the Ukrainian State that put all the gas on its knees in Ukraine. Thirdly, the key question for us is the following. In fact, we have a clear position today in negotiations with the Russian Federation, with the European Union. For the first time, we were able to confirm that we had fulfilled all the obligations of the Ukrainian State as a percentage. Moreover, in fact, the Ukrainian State used its own resources for three days in January to use its own technology to pump gas into our obligations, including the European Union and other European countries. This is an unprecedented case in the history of Ukrainian-European-Ukrainian-Russian relations, when we, in fact, had to use our own technology gas for these leaks in order not to break the deal. But it could not have been infinite. And after the Russian Federation shut down gas supplies to Europe, Ukraine immediately stated that we were ready to comply with all the commitments and mouths of the Ukrainian government, and during the tripartite created commission, it was clearly stated that Ukraine would fulfil all the obligations on gas supplies to European suppliers. Fourthly, there is a very crucial question for us: how will transit and gas prices be conducted today? Today, there were two opposite points of view. At first, the opposition said that if the gas price agreements were signed below, sorry, over $200, it would be a betrayal of Ukraine’s interests. Then there was the question. How much did Ukraine lose these days if the deal was signed for $250? So, first of all, why don't you take a look at the position you're in? And the Ukrainian government has clearly formulated its position – a price that corresponds to a balanced market relationship that would allow all available procedures to be used both for gas transit and directly for gas. And the last. What Ukraine came out of today on January 13th. We have met our obligations to European consumers by a hundred percent. Secondly, we have at present in the gas shelters of 16.3 billion cubic metres of gas, which Ukraine has never had. Thirdly, indeed, for the first time in Ukraine in the last four years, the gas broker “Rosukreenergo” and “Ukrgazenergo” have been removed from direct and open relations.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u76	Finish, 30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u77	And the last. That is why our faction will insist on the creation of a temporary special commission to investigate all the activities of such mediators as “Rosukrenerego” and are with them so that we can objectively assess all our capabilities and potential of the Ukrainian State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u78	From the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" Taras Steckov will perform. Sergey Greenewecki will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u79	For the first time in years, honourable nationals of Ukraine have faced an unprecedented situation when the leadership of a country that considers us to be its strategic partner has not only succeeded in energy blackmail but also strengthened it by an open information war throughout Europe. In the end, it began blackmailing Europe by not supplying its gas. And if we're guided by our national interest, we have to figure out what actually happened in order to figure out how to move on. So what really happened? When the Ukrainian delegation negotiated a contract with Russia in December, we were told that a contract could not be signed because we had debts. When Ukraine paid its debts on December 31, we were immediately named 250 dollars at a constant transit rate. When Ukraine offered another reasonable price, we started talking about 413, 450, and then 470 dollars later, with all the experts knowing that in Germany for 2009, it was about $280 per thousand. I even leave now outside the discussion or have Ukraine the sovereign right to ask questions about its choice of gas price, its choice of transit price and its choice of price for storing Russian gas in underground vaults. Of course, it is small. And we can now ask the question of how the situation has turned out in recent years when Ukraine takes $1.7 per thousand of Cuba for transporting Russian gas to Europe, while the average transit rate in Europe is $7. We have to ask, including those ministers who were ministers in the government of Viktor Yanukovic, as it turned out, that RosUkrenergo paid for its gas storage in our underground vaults $2, Skrtranzaz almost 8 and in Germany the fee is $26 per thousand. And if we were on a calculator right now to figure out the damage that Ukraine suffered as a result of that, if I were to say, politics, we'd be talking in a completely different way. And now the question is why Russia is doing this, why guidance, which constantly tells us that we are a fraternal country, a fraternal nation, behaves this way toward our state. Of course, these whole Russia has been persecuting them, and this is the main thing that it does not hide. When they looked at and read all the statements made by the President, Prime Minister, the leadership of Russia's Gazprom, they called all these goals every day, they said that Ukraine was an unreliable transit partner because, you see, Ukraine had taken gas. But it was enough to take help from Naftogaz Ukraine and to see that, despite the absence of a 2009 contract, Russia's gas was pumped into one and a half billion cubes and spent 50 million cubic metres of gas in order for that gas to pass through Europe. And Ukraine did it! But the issue of discredit has not been the first year, of course, that Russia is interested in increasing the price for Ukraine to its gas and leaving the transit rate unchanged. Because we understand that Gazprom now, the same Gazprom that claimed to be the world's first company, has now gone from 350 billion to 85. And we have to pay more now and so on. Russia, of course, wanted to push Europe to support the gas pipelines of the north and the south. And there was even confusion when the Russian side said that the Baltic countries had agreed to put a gas pipeline at the bottom of the Baltic Sea and there was a warning and a reproof of Estonia that Estonia had not given such consent. Russia certainly wanted to make Europe an ally of pressure on Ukraine in order to privatise our gas transport system. Who doesn't believe, read Prime Minister Putin's interview with the Russian TV station "ARD". The main motive for such behaviour was only one: Russia cannot accept the dream of losing the status of the energy empire. Russia wants to translate its internal problems into other countries, primarily Ukraine, and make us an enemy. And she's done this before the Chechen War. I want to remember that clearly and clearly. Russia cannot forget and is eager to take revenge for the loss of influence in the post - Soviet space. And now I'd like to answer the question. Why has this blackmail failed, and why will it never succeed? He failed for two reasons. Because Ukraine had gas in underground gas shelters this year. Unlike in 2006, and unlike in 2007, when the then Minister of Fuel and Energy, Mr. Boyko, told all of Ukraine that there was Ukrainian gas in the underground, and this gas was proved to be the gas of commercial structures. And now we have gas, and we can survive the winter, and that's why blackmail doesn't work. And there was a second reason. For the first time in years, the Ukrainian authorities took a consolidated position, with little exception. And this is the key to how we should behave in the negotiation process with the Russian Federation. And that's why my wish, and the wish of our faction, is to show endurance now, because the issue of Russian-Ukrainian gas relations is a mirror question. We may not have gas, but they're going to have a gas problem, and they're going to have to do it somewhere because last year Europe didn't get gas. And we'll see what negotiations we have, for example, will be in February and March. And now there's only one thing to say. The question was that Ukrainian businesses had suffered great damage. And I'm going to remind you of how European consumers are doing, who have suffered the same damage. They bring Gazprom to court in Russia, to an international court, to compensate for these gas-related losses. And now it's the main thing. So that we can do it in this situation, in a situation that has arisen? If we are told about market prices or European gas prices, we need to talk about market prices for transit and its storage. And I think that these 8 or 9 billion dollars that Ukraine can make and put into its budget will not harm our pensioners at all and the housing and utility compensation. If we're told the price per formula, let's say the price per formula. It can be said that two years ago, the then president or prime minister of Russia said that the formula should be applied to the price of oil. He just thought the price of oil would go up, and it fell. If we want to stick to the memorandum signed by the presidents of Ukraine and Russia, let's stick to the memorandum. This is the first one. The other one. I believe that the Ukrainian Parliament should adopt a special Law on the Establishment of a National Gas Reserve in Ukraine as soon as possible when gas is added to the needs and use of winter in underground gas shelters. And then no one will ever blackmail us with different requirements, and then the winter is sold to Ukrainian consumers. I think we must also make Europe an ally in our gas negotiations. Europe chose a bad world. It's not the first time she's done that. Europe thinks that there is no such blackmail in relation to it as Russia does in relation to Ukraine. I would like to wish our European partners, and I think at the international level, we should talk about this as being a challenge not for Ukraine, it is a challenge, first of all, and a test of the strength of European countries, whether they will continue this peacemaking policy, whether they will act in accordance with the principles of the rule of law and European solidarity. But the main, strategic task for Ukraine, if you want, is to be a national strategy for the government -- to reduce the consumption of imported gas at least twice. And to do that, I'll just give you two examples, or three better. Ukrainian heat stations consume 10 billion imports of gas. The transition to new technologies, which are related to the combustion of coal combined with gas, gives the economy half. The same technology -- sawdust -- can be applied to metallurgical enterprises. Today, only one factory – Donetextal – is working on this technology. To do this, Ukraine would have to spend $2 and a half billion in investment. That's not what I said -- said Oleg Dubin, who was the director of the metallurgical combination in January 2006. Ukraine and the owners of metallurgical combinations can find such investments. And my appeal to the Party of Regions. You're not crying for cheap gas, Russia will never give it to us. And take care of modernizing your businesses and think about the technology of using mine methane, which is more than enough in Ukraine. Finally: Modernization of the “Heatcommunergo”. It's a government-wide program that can provide the same economy. And if Ukraine now buys 50 billion cubes of Russian gas and buys 25, that's a direct contribution to our energy and economic independence. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u80	Sergey Greenewecki, Lithuanian Block faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u81	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the question that we are considering is the issue of pressure: both political and gas. It is known not today but all the years of independence of Ukraine. A few years ago, it was clear that such a critical day of X could happen. There was some time for modernizing production, introducing energy-saving technologies, etc. But that time was wasted. Why did this happen? First of all, because of the imperfections of the political system, which makes it impossible to respond effectively to the threats that arise. With it, the state is unfortunately unable to perform its basic functions and primarily political, economic, and social. Moreover, this system creates deep foundations for corruption, for a variety of corruption schemes, including in the energy system and in the sphere. And as long as it stays, the Ukrainian economy will be vulnerable to external influences. In our situation, the worst part is that the issue of gas supply is overly politicized. It's also politicized outside because it remains key in Russian-Ukrainian relations. It is politicized and internal, since the authorities are unable to carry out the agreed line. Everyone tries to blame each other, everyone wants to get out of it both economic and political dividends. As a result, the authorities lose confidence among both their citizens and their foreign partners. In the strategic perspective, the result of the gas war between Ukraine and Russia could be the construction of an alternative gas pipeline around the Ukrainian territory. This is what European politicians and experts are talking about. Despite the global economic crisis, the fight over energy transit routes continues. In this fight, Ukraine has unfortunately been given the role of walking, which can be donated. At the same time, the energy issue, however important it may be, should not obscure the current problems of combating unemployment, restoring confidence in national currency, and reviving business life. There are a lot of recipes and one of them, I think, is the reorientation of state policy to regional approach, the introduction of the principle of solidarity. Because in cities today, the most important issues of a person’s life - style are being addressed. The state’s ability to protect a citizen from the impact of the crisis will not be judged by the way the sector works. The criteria for the assessment will be the stable work of housing and utilities, the heat in the houses, the light on the streets, the protection of life and the property of a particular citizen, the quality of nutrition and quality treatment. Under these conditions, attention should be paid to the work of urban enterprises that are profitable, that form budgets for small and medium-sized cities, that keep the social sphere, and that are currently forced or that are going to go into an emergency economy, such as ports, or at all to stop production, such as the Odessa Port Facility. Today, some with excessive optimism mention the 1990s, said, survived then, survive now. But let us not deceive ourselves or people. In the '90s, a man could have failed to pay for public services without penalty. This is no longer possible today. The question is not even that private companies can turn off water, gas, or electricity for failure to pay, but that what is outdated, the technologically drained utilities simply cannot withstand such pressure. And let's face it, when pressure is restored, who gives a guarantee that there can't be a technological accident? In order to address the urgent tasks, it is now necessary to actively apply the mechanism provided for in the Act on the Promotion of Regional Development, in particular the conclusion of regional development agreements between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the district authorities, which define common arrangements between central and local executive authorities and local authorities, order, scope, form and funding. The need for similar steps is evident in the Odessa region, particularly in the southern Odessa region. And I'm convinced that in the future it would be possible to prevent such a crisis. We have a comprehensive program for the development of Ukrainian Danube, and we have a wonderful law. a statement by the President of Ukraine on urgent measures for the development of the south-western part of the Odessa region, which provides for the development of the energy sector and the transport infrastructure of the region. And I'm convinced that a joint government, a local government involving investors, could do a lot to avoid this crisis. And I want to remind you that Danube is not just eight areas where there are 650,000 citizens of different nationalities. This is a strategic region for Ukraine because it is at the crossroads of the geopolitical interests of the countries of the Black Sea region, important transport communications, has an exit to the Danube, and from there to South East and Central Europe. And that Danube is the southern perp of our state on the border with the European Union. True, if we look at his situation today, it can be said that he has long been in Europe, for as we explain to the inhabitants of this region, why, in the presence of two powerful gas compressor stations: Orlovsky and Tarutinsk, they are forced to sit without gas, while Ukraine supplies him to neighboring Moldova. By the way, where is transparency? Is there a covenant with Moldova? At what price? Is it not a smuggled product and much more. Of course, helping neighbors is a good tradition, but you don't have to do it at the expense of your own citizens. And to the end. Justice is always seasoned with a drop of vengeance. You can't shake each other's hands with your fists clenched and think clearly. Therefore, according to our faction, the Supreme Council should, in the shortest term, hear a full and thorough analysis of the situation not only in the energy field but also in the banking sphere and in the economy as a whole. And we need to take this matter seriously. Either we learn to win, or we learn to be friends with the winners because they help only the winners. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u82	Victor Fedorovich Janukovic, faction of the Party of the Regions, has the floor. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u83	Dear National Deputies! Respectable compatriots! I hope it's the last orange winter! But it still needs to be survived. We must survive this winter to thousands of patients in cold hospitals, hundreds of thousands of children who cannot study at minus - temperature classes. This winter, we have to survive the millions of families whose parents have lost their jobs, the pensioners who are being held up, the students who are not receiving scholarships, the half - hungry soldiers in the army, the disabled who have been given such a cost-effective minimum that they can't live on, the whole of our people, whom today's government has thrown into the cold and hungry winter. We have to live through this difficult time. And each day, the presence of unprofessional, adventurous, and irresponsible authorities further deepens those problems and problems in the country. The information that we heard from this rostrum from Sold Yuri Vasilovich today, I would call it that -- first of all, it looked like a leprechaun, unfortunately. I am not surprised that today the government in Parliament refused to report but simply to provide information. And I am confident that only strong and responsible government officials can speak the truth. I'm not surprised there's no President here today. Of course, there is a need to report to Parliament on how it is to be reported to all the Ukrainian people. But we know that it is virtually impossible for the authorities to hear the truth today. All year long people were lied to, made sweet promises, and made mists with beautiful words and various spectacles. We saw it. And today they are afraid to look into the eyes of the people. But it's not long now: a righteous judgment, you won't run away from it. Dear National Deputies! In the midst of a deep economic and political crisis, in the middle of the harsh winter, the authorities left Ukraine not only without gas but also without prospects. Because the irresponsibility and adventure of today's government has led Ukraine to gradually lose its status as a transitor state. What it means is we know you and me. Loss is not all we will suffer. The authority, the credibility of the country's importance in the region of Central-Eastern Europe is what Ukraine lost. Smile over yourself, smile. [[B in m in s a l in]] But you don't have to smile at 47 million people. We won't let you do that. Very soon, I would like to remind you of what we have lost and what has been destroyed during these last years of orange rule. First of all, the entire contractual base between Ukraine and Russia, which was built virtually all of the years of independence -- and which, by the way, was ratified here in Parliament. The link between transit and pricing was destroyed. And when they come out of this rostrum, they should remember when this happened? This happened in 2005 when they came to power, destroyed direct connections and supplies of gas with Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan, and Kazakhstan, which with such difficulties of their own time were managed by both our government and other governments in Ukraine. And this has greatly reduced Ukraine's capacity as a state, to tell the truth. Today, Russian leaders point out that Ukraine’s authorities are corrupt. Why there is no answer to this accusation on the Ukrainian side. I'd like to ask you, where did 25 billion dollars of those who paid for the gas they consumed disappear? After all, to pay more than 50 billion, 25 of which were listed by Ukraine as paying for gas, where are the rest? There is no answer. And there's no answer to why when we had a $179.5 price deal for 2008, we sold 1,200 dollars. Why is it that at the end of the year it is 1800? Why did the price rise in the middle of the year to over $300 that Russia had changed its price? No, it's not. Why did the government raise the price on its own without any basis? Why didn't the government make a gas deal with Russia in time for 2009? Why did he allow all chemical industries and a large part of the metallurgical industry to be stopped because of gas shortages? Why did Odessa’s port and dozens of other businesses stop? Why do government officials order a selector to stop businesses and throw people out on the street when this was the case? We want answers to these and many other questions. We demanded a report from the government to Parliament, but unfortunately we did not hear the report. The government is afraid to report. A party of regions has repeatedly warned of such a scenario in our country. And if we were supported by the Communists last July, we could resign this government and prepare Ukraine for the terrible trials that the state and the people are facing. Sadly, though, our position at the time did not find understanding and support. Those who did not then vote with us in favour of resigning the government have taken responsibility for what is happening today in the country and should bear this responsibility together with the President, with the government, with the whole, so-called, or as it is now called in the people's language of the 'unnamed coalition'. Dear National Deputies! Respectable compatriots! Orange authorities have turned relations with the Russian Federation into a source of extremely dangerous tension not only in Eastern Europe but also in continents as a whole. Her adventurous, unprofessional, irresponsible steps have caused great damage to Ukraine’s international authority. Untrustworthy of this authority, the international community has placed its observers in our territory. This is tantamount to recognizing the inability of the current authorities to control the situation in the state. [[Applause]] In apartments, schools, hospitals, and colds, businesses stop, millions of unemployed people and their families despair. I understand that those who shout here are warm, I understand that, but you go and listen to the people. [[Applause]] Show them your faces so they can see you. Business stops, millions of unemployed people and their families despair. Meanwhile, the authorities are not responsible for what is happening in the state and are hiding from the people. She disappeared from the television screens, which until recently were regularly manipulated by public opinion. Government and parliamentary factions that support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u84	Allow me to finish the speech. Well, calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u85	They also fear a report to the Ukrainian people and do everything they can to ensure that such a report called for opposition does not take place. On the part of the authorities, statements are constantly echoing completely unprofessional and expressively anti - Russian, and you have heard them today from this rostrum. And now, when we have to do everything we can to stop the disaster, we see how sometimes the Secretariat and the Kabmin get over the press with accusations, who is more guilty of them, and who among them is more likely to destabilize life in Ukraine. So the question of an explosion of mass-social protest, which could lead to a violent confrontation between power and the people, is only a matter of time. In this regard, the Party of the Regions claims that there is a direct threat to the national security of the State. For the sake of saving the country, for the sake of the present and present generations of the Ukrainian people, we demand: the first report of the government to Parliament; the second, the creation of a special commission to investigate the abuse of power in gas supply; the third, the immediate resignation of the current Cabinet of Ministers and the initiation of the President's impeachment procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u86	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u87	We propose to include in the agenda of the High Council on Thursday 15 January the issue of a draft resolution on the resignation of the government. And the last. My fellow Members, I would like to remind you that the faction and the national MPs who support this irresponsible government and this power, together with this government, are responsible for all the turmoil that is being created in the country. So I'm talking to my colleagues, let's get Ukraine out of these adventurers together.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u88	Thank you. Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, faction of the Communist Party, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u89	Respectable citizens of Ukraine, respected colleagues, the gas crisis requires us to take our internal problems seriously. Orders should be made in your own home. The gas heath, which has given people orange power and gas barons in charge of the main producer of this action by President Yushchenko, cannot be qualified otherwise than a state crime, as a crime against Ukraine and its people. There is no doubt about it. The complete failure of the foreign policy of the orange nationalists has led to a renewed rapprochement with Russia, which threatens Ukraine with a socio-economic catastrophe. Their efforts were aimed, not at developing mutually beneficial and equitable economic, cultural, political relations with Russia, but at forming an image of the enemy from a friendly country, at fuelling animosity between the only Native Ukrainian and Russian people, at destroying the economy and provoking economic wars. It was 2008 that, thanks to the official propaganda of the President and the orange team, it was the year of the Russian Federation's relationship with the Russian Federation -- the problem of joining NATO, the problem of joining the WTO, turning off television, removal, so-called, chauvinistic literature, genocide, the supply of arms to Georgia, the rehabilitation of the bandits, the accusations of endangering Ukraine's territorial integrity, the Black Sea fleet and many other problems. In the face of an economic crisis, when dozens of businesses have become involved, when millions of our families are expected to be exposed to unemployment in the spring, the price of gas — $450 — will bring the last whistle to Ukraine’s economic independence tour. At the same time, no increase in transit rates will cover the loss of the domestic economy. The orange, as you can see, works systematically, systematically to destroy economic independence. I want to remind you that today's situation is critical because in February of last year, Ukraine was involved in the cabal environment, and in the fall, due to the artificial collapse of our nation's bracelets, once again, a powerful blow was struck, the national manufacturer was put on his knees. And now consciously, because of the provocation and oppression of the opposition with Russia, these shares are primarily trying to leave behind the supply of Rossukrenerego gas in the scheme, as well as the main goal: to make the price of gas irresistible to the domestic economy and to clean up Ukraine's territory for the expansion of transnational capital and transnational corporations. Consider, too, the fact that this fall resulted in an artificial collapse in the currency of the oligarchs and Nazbank. On this affair, they made billions of dollars, and simple laborers left with nothing. Since the first days of the crisis, the President and his team have been touring the banking mafia, and close friends of the oligarchs to save their business and banks continue to receive the people's billions, of course, for the appropriate bribes. So far, Yushchenko has all come down: and stolen from the investors of the bank “Ukraine”, to which he had a direct involvement, 1.8 billion dollars; and financial fraud with government funds during the Nazbank regime; and the release to the offshore zone of half a billion dollars; and approved during the premiere period of the State Budget for the year 2000, which deprived workers of the deserved benefits and pensioners, veterans and invalids of pensions, aid for a total of 13 billion dollars; and the illegal spread of the Supreme Council in 2007; and many other crimes. [[Who never returned to the country]] There is no doubt that one of the main internal factors in today’s gas crisis is the struggle of the clans for the gas pipe. And I want to remind my colleagues from the Party of Regions once again that in these divisions, including your representatives, we, the factions of Communists, will not participate. It is the financial interests of the Yushchenki family, which, together with their supporters from the Mogilevich and the Firtash clan, through the sad companies Rossukrenerego and Petroz, which, by the way, have been closely linked to the President's own brother, that the gas market in Ukraine has been under way for several years. I'm asking us to understand, dear colleagues, what we're talking about. It was not without the geopolitical interests of the United States, which are killing the wedge between us, Russia and the EU, that they are trying to smuggle Ukraine into the buffer zone and the Ukrainian gas transport system into an economic pressure mechanism and restore its influence on the European continent. What should we do? On behalf of our faction, I urge the Supreme Council to consider by the end of the week a series of urgent issues aimed at overcoming the gas crisis. We need to start with the following steps: to urgently develop a national energy security programme, i.e. a pay-as-you-go, oil and gas pipeline, uranium and other directions; to ensure that the programme is fully funded at the expense of the money received from the supply of weapons; to take control over the production of coal, gas, oil, uranium, peat, with a view to eliminating all commercial activities, and more precisely the fraudsters, who, under the cover of the provision of intermediate services, are artificially raising energy prices; to provide State support to companies that are implementing energy-saving technologies; to adopt legislation on the principles of domestic and external policy, laws that would restore strategic enterprises to the property of the state. Furthermore, we demand that the process of removing President Yashchenk from power and drawing him to criminal responsibility be initiated. First, the main provoker of the conflict – corrupt President Yushchenko must be immediately removed from the negotiating process and its impact on the situation must be brought to nothing. The Supreme Council must deprive Yashchenk of the opportunity to influence negotiation processes and take responsibility. Therefore, as a faction of communists, we are proposing to establish a joint parliamentary-government commission with a view to resolving the mutually beneficial conditions of economic and energy relations with Russia, in particular with regard to the pricing and transit of gas to Europe, and to give this commission a correspondingly extraordinary mandate. Secondly, I want to remind those who forgot that it was Yushchenko who, at the end of 2005, blessed the break of the long-term contract, according to which the price of gas for Ukraine was fixed at $50 per 1,000 cubic metres until 2010. Now Yushchenko has personally refused the Russian side's 250 dollar gas price offer, even though he himself has signed a government budget, where a fixed gas price of the same 250 dollars per thousand cubic metres. Yuschenko personally ordered that negotiations with Russia be discontinued, and he questioned existing gas transit agreements to Europe. This is particularly cynical in view of the recent decrees by President Yushchenko of the Pharisaic, with a large pump on the formation of a strategic group to improve Ukrainian-Russian relations. Recent events indicate that it was just a smoke screen, followed by a cynical provocation against the improvement of these relationships. Thirdly, the Supreme Council should consider the criminal responsibility of Yashchenko and his business family for speculative gas market manipulation and abuse of the President's office in order to obtain profits. What is it? It is known that in 2008, Russia received 179 Russian gas through Rossukrenerego, mentioned earlier. Where did the difference of $320 go, we have to answer. This should be done by the Ukrainian Security Service, the Attorney General's Office and the parliamentary commission of inquiry. Today, there are hysterical allegations of Russia’s supposed intention to seize Ukraine’s gas transport system. So she's excited. Enthralled by Firthash. Ukraine's control packages of Ukrainian gas distribution companies are RossUkreenergo, which controls 75 per cent of the gas market that is sold in Ukraine, almost 50 billion cubic metres per year. I think our colleagues from the Party of Regions should also take a closer look at what is happening in this regard. In view of Yushchenko's full support regime for “Roskreenergo” and his co-owner, it is only possible to guess which of the cuts came into the accounts of the predominant family and what the extent of this corruption is. This family order of Yushchenka-Firtash must finally be stopped and given a legal evaluation. [[Applause]] We propose that we urgently adopt a law on the nationalization of fraud. Control over gas distribution and its sale to end consumers in Ukraine should be in the hands of the state. Otherwise, Yushchenka's business family will continue to hold the throat of the people of Ukraine, stretching the gas smog on it. Fourthly, for all of us, it's obvious that the foreign policy course that Yushchenko is conducting has completely bankrupted and nothing but the country and the people are suffering. Therefore, only changes to the Constitution and the provision of real power will be able to really keep any leader in the national interest, especially when he acts as a provoker. In this connection, the Communists insist on an urgent adoption by the Supreme Council of those legislative instruments that will finally allow for the initiation of an impeachment procedure against President Yushchenk. And I'm so glad that the Party of Regions finally understood that. We hope that you will be consistent to the end, not just making statements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u90	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Please, we need to consult. We have a 30-minute speech, a speech by the Prime Minister and a decision-making process. Dear colleagues, please calm down. Dear colleagues, how better to proceed? Complete the consideration of the question and, during the break, after the discussion, agree on the positions on the draft decisions that are and then vote on those decisions? A normal offer? Dear colleagues, then, if you so request, sign up for the National MPs now. At 12 o'clock, we'll call it a break. After 12:30, we'll continue our work. Please sign in. 30 minutes for the MPs. Please have the name of the national MPs on the sign-up table. National Deputy Jaroschuk, faction of the Party of the Regions. Please, your right to speak. As long as there's a national MP coming. Boyko? Please come to the rostrum. While Yuri Boyko is on his way, I'd like to ask the honourable faction leaders to consider their candidates for representation on the commission of inquiry so that we can agree on an agreed decision during the recess. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u91	Ladies and gentlemen, I think we have witnessed another attempt today to resuscitate the teachings of the famous Nazi criminal Dr. Hebbels, who said in his own time that the more monstrous a lie, the more people will believe it. Today we witnessed, as we were once again told that we were doing well in the country, but unfortunately the authorities forgot that as long as we didn't tell the halva, we wouldn't have any sugar in our mouth. And when in 10 days of a country that is a reliable transitor, we were turned into this kind of Zimbabwe with a gas pipe, when we were brought into crisis by a country that had no reason to do so, the people would no longer believe any claim of a government faction policy and no one would trust them anymore. I think in order to understand what happened and why we found ourselves in this situation, we need a very clear and thorough analysis. But in the absence of time, I just want to remind myself of what happened this year. We've been witnessing from the beginning of the year that the authorities and the government have said that we're doing fine in the gas field, we're going to be doing fine, we're going to be doing fine with the Russian Federation, we're going to be with contracts and a comfortable price. They reached the talks by December 31st, and then there was a conflict, and what does normal authorities do if a crisis strikes in the country? It is based on, makes, and takes steps to overcome this crisis. What did today’s authorities do that we saw with their own eyes that you say you wouldn’t be in love? The President of the country, the Prime Minister, disappeared from his sight at all, was abandoned, the country was abandoned, and allowed a disgraceful accusation by Russia, from the European community, to our address, all the holidays were held. Our festivals were distorted by accusations. I think we're going to have a nation that's going to make a difference. Our people will come to the conclusion that we have 13 days of work without knowing the price of gas and without it. And so our principle of resigning the government is well thought out. It's not emotion. It is clear that today’s authorities are unable to cope with the problems facing both the country’s economy and the energy sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u92	The Zabzaluk People's Deputy is transferring the right to speak to Gudimi, the faction, please, the Timoshenko Yulia Block. Helen Bondarenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u93	Dear Mr. Head! Madam Prime Minister! Dear National Deputies! I think the speeches say it's all about making decisions. The main decision that Parliament can make today is that opposition does not feel like a part of power, and in civilized societies it is also power. So I think if we vote in favour of the document together today, for example, I will vote in favour of Mr. Zarubinski's proposed option to ask our colleagues, independent of the Russian Federation, whether they refer to the prokrem majority, or whether they refer to the opposition to resolve this issue, which is so painful today. But something unexpected to me today was a statement by the faction of the Regions that the outcome of the situation today is to resign the government of Yulia Timoshenko. And I think for what? I wanted to hear some arguments today that the Timoshenko government should resign. I got it. For the first time in the history of Ukraine, and not only, on January 1, we have 17 billion gas, not borrowed, not stolen, not taken, but our own Ukrainian gas. And for the first time, the Ukrainian side can properly represent the interests of Ukraine in the negotiations. I understood why I wanted to resign the government of Julia Timoshenko. Because she took an uncompromising position on the presence of shadow mediators. I think that the initiative to resign the government of Yulia Timoshenko belongs to the group that suffers most – the group “Rosukre Energo”. As for me, if we were a civilized parliament, Mr. Fertash's statement that he owns 75 percent of the market is a direct instruction to the Antimonopoly Committee to start the case. It's not like that in life a person can claim that they're almost holding the entire market of divisive gas in their hands. That is to say that if we wanted to take a step for Ukraine, we are saying that NAK Naftogaz had a bad position before the new year in negotiations with Russia. Bad, because he had two billion debts. The government has to resign because it has been able to pay off those debts in the last two days. But let's say that NAC Naftogaz today is a strong company? No, it's not. He's still in debt, but I think if the faction of the Regions today said that it made a commitment to return through the “Ukrgazenergo” billion in favour of NAK “Naftogazu”, that would be the right decision. If she had made a commitment to return another billion, which companies that had been profiled by Mr. Firthash.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u94	Thank you. Helen Bondarenko's handing over Valentine's Dentist and the break will be. But I announced that Bondarenko would let the performance take place.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u95	Dear Vladimir Mihajlović, distinguished Yulia Vladimirovna, distinguished ministers, respected colleagues of the people's deputies, respected ours, yes, and respected opposition, and the distinguished people of Ukraine! We are indeed discussing one of the current and painful problems facing Ukraine today. But I cannot help but say that in the many years I have worked in this room, I am struck by the two factors that we are discussing today. The first is, first of all, a position. Okay. The position of opposition that my colleague has just said today that the position of opposition is that they're in some strange position, they're not the authorities. That's the first one. And the second. I was just, well, shocked by the speech of the opposition leader, Mr. Yanukovich, and I would cry a little bit with him over the plight of poor teachers, doctors, children, and so forth. Dear friends, we should still have some representation of the limit of cynicism. Yes! The opposition, it's her job to criticize power, of course. But you can't go beyond what criticism is like cynicism, just like the cynicism that the whole state can see. The opposition and, above all, the former Prime Minister, Mr. Janukovic, should know well that only a dilettante can criticize the government after a year of his work, because the results of the government's work, today's government, the country will hear and experience only two, three, five years from now. Not anymore, these basic things don't understand! That's the first one. And the second is that it can not only be surprising and that it cannot be disturbed. Opposition, I understand your attitude towards my speech, please listen. Again! Dear friends, here I want to address all my fellow MPs, we are discussing only the higher part of the iceberg, behind this crisis, behind this gas war, as it has been described, is the extremely powerful international financial and industrial capital that is interested in fighting Ukraine and Russia. And I want you all to know that Gazprom is not Russia as well as Naftogaz Ukraine is not Ukraine! We need to talk about the subjects of farming, not the position of the states.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u96	Thank you. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I ask the leaders. [[Your last name has not been mentioned. Please calm down.]] I ask the faction leaders, as well as the head of the Committee on Fuel and Energy and on Rules, MPs, the organization of the work of the Supreme Council during the break, to meet in the Cabinet of the Supreme Council. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 33 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u97	We're continuing the discussion. Vladimir Vasilovich Kozak has the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u98	I beg your pardon to pass on the Lord's work to Inne Hermanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u99	Another Germanology, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u100	The respectable Ukrainian community, the honourable deputies, in any country's power, is the only threefold task: to ensure the well-being of its own citizens in their families, to ensure peace in the country and to ensure respect for our own country and our citizens. The actions of the orange authorities have led to the absence of any of these tasks. Ukrainian families are poor today; our children do not go to school because they continue vacations in connection with low school temperatures; mothers do not go to work; so their children cannot go to kindergartens because they are sick on the second day; millions of people are unemployed; and the industrial situation is what he was just at the end of World War II. And today it's the highest cynicism in this rostrum to talk about what big plans in the active authorities to make life in the country. Instead of a breakthrough, we have a gap now, and this gap is about to explode, as the suffering of the Ukrainian people does. But about the gas question. Today’s report has proved once again to the entire country that they are trying to mislead us. Whether this authority has gone completely mad and lives in another space, it says that we are normal and does not know what is going on in the country or whether it is lying to us on purpose. So as a parliament, we should create a temporary commission of inquiry into the state of the gas transport system in Ukraine, from a study of the state of gas supply to citizens, to the social sphere and to the Ukrainian industry, from a study of bilateral relations between Russia and Ukraine in the gas field. And only Parliament today, after studying this issue, has the opportunity to provide society with reliable information on the state of affairs in this field. Ladies and gentlemen, we have been invited here for another 3-5 years to work for this government. But even people are saying that if they work for even six months, the country of Ukraine will look like after the war, where everything we have is burned: both businesses and prosperity in our homes. So we need to intervene in this situation. And the first step today is to create a temporary commission of inquiry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u101	Marmazov Eugene Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, it is a fact that the futile, inconsequential and sometimes illogical actions in connection with the gas crisis have suffered painful blows against the international authority of our country, in confidence in Ukraine as a transit Power. The conflict has led to even worse relations with our great neighbour and strategic partner, Russia, and, I would say, damaged hopelessly. The fact that Ukraine's involvement in NATO will lead to the closure of cooperation between our countries, particularly in a particularly sensitive area — military-technical — has been evident for a long time. This is now the case for other vital industries, including the production of large-dimension pipes, the production of many machinery, equipment, electronics, which will increase unemployment and deepen our backlog from advanced countries. Add to this the inevitable introduction of the visa regime with Russia the gradual closure of Russia's transit of energy resources through our country's territory and so on. If this is the goal of those who, with the will of most of our people, are dragging Ukraine to NATO, seeking a full gap with Russia, and this is the case, we must speak honestly and frankly about this people. The people will approve of this, but the truth must be told. Is it not a matter of concern to us that, as the gas conflict began to escalate and dangerously escalate, people began to freeze in Crimea, Zitomire, Harkov, other cities, chemical, other businesses, the country suffered billions of losses? The president skated on skis in the Carpathians, silenced the Prime Minister, who had not recently descended from the television screens, but commented on the situation by third-rate, ambitious, Russianophobia-stricken officials. Could they have declared their position in this situation, called for decisive action by the so-called, opposition government and its Prime Minister, leading political parties? Nothing like that. In order for the Supreme Council not to be gathered in an emergency, Parliament did not discuss the situation, nor did it require specific measures from the Government? And the Communists offered to hold such a session. We have been witnessing a fierce struggle in the reigning tops and between the oligarch clans for a gas field that gives its masters billions of dollars in income. How many promises have there been for the orange authorities, the Timoshenko Government to end this situation, remove secret intermediaries from the gas market, and ensure transparency in this area? Nothing's done. And yet, the country's top leaders have finally compromised themselves not only by failing to prevent the danger to Ukraine, by developing events, and by withdrawing its economy from the deep crisis.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u103	Do it, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u104	But it's not good enough to embarrass the country by fighting for power. The President and the Prime Minister publicly accuse each other of the most serious crimes in the world: betrayal of national interests, dispersion of funds on a massive scale and so on. If that were true, would such people remain in their positions in a normal, democratic country? And if that is not true, do I have the moral right of slanderers to lead the country? I believe that the Supreme Council should speak on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u105	Bev Valeriy Ananiyovich, please. Alla Alexandrovska.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u106	Dear colleagues! Today we have requested consideration of the very important issue for Ukraine and for all people living here: the status of the gas contract to Ukraine. We have heard the answer to such a simple question: Is this how the treaty is concluded today or not, and when will it be concluded? We've heard a lot of detailed stories today about who went where, who met with whom, what the mood of our Government, the President, but we haven't heard the answer to this basic question that concerns everyone living in Ukraine today: is there a treaty with Russia or not? We're promised that today's gas transit will begin. On what grounds? If there is no treaty, how will this transit take place in Ukraine, how much, at what cost and who, in the end, is responsible for what it will or will not be? Again, we have not received answers to these basic questions. The main issue is the conclusion of a treaty with Russia. Did we not know in June, July, August, September and so on, and the Government, and the President, that this crucial issue of the security of our energy State is not resolved? On 31 December, it became clear that the treaty could not be signed for some reason. Didn't our President understand in November and early December that the parties had absolutely no agreement on the price of gas to be delivered to Ukraine, what would be the cost of gas transit? And we knew that this matter was of concern to the whole of Europe. The impression is that complete non-professionalism, and probably indeed the criminal activity of senior officials, has led Ukraine to become dependent on third countries. Because today, with such joy, and yesterday, and on these days, it's always been reported that you can see that the European community is involved in the resolution of the conflict, we're coming to us, we're flying there, we're not getting out of the plane. Finally, Europe, so to speak, took a stand. It's crazy. It is a fool that we, the State that needs to have representatives of third countries come to our territory and resolve our issues instead, instead of us, have in fact raised issues relating to the livelihood of the entire Ukrainian population and the provision of people with normal living conditions. Today we have heard that the Government has become troubled and the President has also said that we have sufficient strategic stocks of gas and coal. Doesn't it make sense that it shouldn't be something so unusual? That this is the most common standard situation, a situation where the authorities will ensure the normal viability of the entire State. These will include supplies and food and energy resources that are necessary for the normal lives of our citizens. Today, this is being passed on as a great achievement that we have done.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u107	Demyanchuk, a national deputy, hands over the right to speak to Ally Alexandrowski. Please come in.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u108	Today, all of these most basic ordinary things are being taught as great achievements. What's more, it sounds like a winning relationship. I believe there was a first call in 2006. You remember December 2006, you remember when we entered the new year without a contract, when no one knew how much gas and how we were going to get. When no one knew whether Ukraine could make money on gas transit. When you and I adopted a budget, it is not clear what gas price should have been included in that budget. That question was also unresolved. And that came to our attention, because in 2007, 2006 we started to have an increase in tariffs because the price for gas was approved. By the way, you and I, the Ukrainian Parliament, have not been able to obtain from the Government the specific conditions that have been the basis of the gas contract from Russia to Ukraine. Then we became aware from the media that there were seven documents. And you remember how we were here trying to inform you on what conditions Ukraine is getting gas and we've been working with you for six months, and we didn't do anything to get the government budget recalculated at a new price for gas. Both budgetary organizations suffered, and the entire population suffered and, most importantly, the population of Ukraine. Today, we are experiencing the same situation. I want to ask President Yushchenko a question: did he just wake up on December 31st? Because yesterday, I heard from his representative that the president was on the phone on his own, and he was consulted in the course of, well, literally around the clock. What, did President Yushchenko not know earlier that the issue had not been resolved and had to be resolved in advance? We had to enter the winter with both stocks and calculations, including the budget. We Communists raised a question here in this room when the 2009 budget was discussed. We talked about how to adopt a budget when we don't know the basic, very, very important parameter is the price parameter for gas to be put into that budget. And yet the hall voted. He voted with the hands of the orange faction. And today they have full responsibility for how this budget will be implemented and how to ensure that the people of Ukraine do not suffer. Indeed, the budget has frozen wages, the budget has frozen the growth of social payments to people, but the budget does not place a real price on gas, which is not yet known as what it is and how it will turn out for our people. The impunity of our President, the initiativelessness of the Government, from which the people of Ukraine suffer, calls for answers to the question of who will answer all this? The Communist faction therefore supports the proposal to set up a parliamentary commission of inquiry, which must be understood why the President is so acting, why he protects those mediators who raise prices.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u109	Kirilenko Viacheslav Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u110	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “For Ukraine” MP. Dear colleagues! Dear voters! There are many Communist speakers with foam around their mouths who prove that in general, in all countries, the President is guilty of all kinds of trouble. In doing so, they clearly demonstrate that there is a clear distinction between the political positions of the President of Ukraine and the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Apparently, this is the last of the Kremlin’s orders. But I am personally and as a deputy, and as a citizen, very pleased with the fact that all these Christmas days both the President and the Prime Minister and the government and all the Ukrainian authorities speak with one voice on the gas issue. And the same position and approach ensure that this queue is imposed by the Kremlin's “gas war” Ukraine will be won. Because Ukraine is in simple, clear positions. The other thing is that we as deputies should not let our country be offended by any Kremlin official. The defiant tone of all recent statements on the Kremlin’s gas theme tells us that we are being despised as an independent country. We can't even imagine that tone from the Kremlin, for example at the address of Germany, France, Romania or Bulgaria, only at the address of Ukraine. Which means that the current Russian political elite still does not see Ukraine as an independent state. And half of our parliament will play this part in this Russian elite. Sooner or later, the Ukrainian people will surely give an assessment. But now all those who are in national positions in national interests must gather together and evaluate the Kremlin blackmail, and support the President, and the government in their struggle for fair and long-term gas supplies to Ukraine. That is why the parliamentary group “For Ukraine” introduced a draft decision that clearly speaks of several things and we would very much like to see the draft voted today. He's talking about the first thing-- the Kremlin's gas transport system won't get there. And this should be seen again in the decision of the Ukrainian Parliament. Our draft decree says that the gas of its own production should be given the most favourable mode. Our decision says that it is not possible to cut energy savings costs, and unfortunately, in this year's budget, they are halved. And here's the plane for government work. Our draft ruling says that energy tariffs should finally become economically sound, and our draft decree says that we should develop alternative sources of energy. I'm sorry, there's electricity, for example, there's an excess, and there's not enough gas. For the government, there is no beginning of work, and we support it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u111	Efraemov Alexander Sergiyovich is currently on the Conciliation Council. The next one is Javorovsky Vladimir Aleksandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u112	Vladimir Yavorowski, BUT, city of Kirovograd Dear colleagues, because, if I'm not mistaken, I'm the last of the national MPs, and since the Fertash, Boyk and Ljovczyn gas attacks seem to have failed, no casualties, because you can take off your gasses already. I'd like to touch on a few questions that my colleagues and Taras Stacks and Sergey Sobolev have revealed to every Ukrainian today all of this panorama of gas battalions and I think that a lot of people today have understood everything and everything is in place. I just want to calm down a little bit, let's say, Victor Fedorovich with his big, all-U.S. cries about poor school kids, sick kids and all that. I was sitting there and, really, my soul was tearing apart, but then my mind said, wait, and Firtash has 75 percent control of all the district gases, so why don't you smoke? If these were state institutions, yes, we could say today that the government is to blame. So what you're doing is you're dumping gas on some small businesses, which is, the worse, the better. That's the first one. The other one. I can see the reason why this deal hasn't been signed for so long. But because three of our rich, rich people from the word “richness”, again, and Ljowczyn, and Firtash, and Boyko, in fact, did all three of them to prevent this agreement from being signed before the new year. And the third thing I want to say is why I went up to this rostrum. We missed another question today. Over the years of our independence, none of the governments may have wanted to, but failed to, because he was quickly retired, and the other just didn't want to address the most important issue, because Ukraine today has in Schelf and Azovsky, and the Black Sea has, according to our geologists today, our scouts have huge reserves of gas. But you know, you need to be clear, you need to invest money normally, and for years the Ukrainian authorities have been much more comfortable with gas trading, where shadow huge sums go, where huge discounts go, so why do you have to deal with this difficult, very often unappreciative thing. Because of this, it happened today that at 17 years of independence Russia was worth, let's say, blackmailing us again, and today we're in this situation. Because I'm convinced today that what's going on here has released a couple, people are going to figure out who said what here today and what they want. That's all that matters. And I'm convinced that the government, today's government of Yulia Tymoshenko, has to fight the crisis, to get rid of everything by getting oil in our shelves, it will be a colossal exit and a colossal potential for us. I believe it will be!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u113	Kinakh Anatoly Kirilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u114	Dear National Deputies! Respectable compatriots! We are forced to note the very unpleasant truth that in recent years Ukraine, as a state, has sharply reduced its level of energy security and increased its dependence on energy supply from external economic and political conditions. And it's time to stop looking for enemies from the outside, the Kremlin's hand, and to conclude that such a state that does not have a clear energy strategy that corresponds to the national interests of the State, a state where instead of working for the consolidation of society, development is engaged in mutual destruction, demonstrating, including an unprecedented level of decline in qualifications and responsibility, these threats to Ukraine. The situation is extraordinary. In November-December 2008, the decline in industrial production in Ukraine accounted for about 30 percent. There is only one precedent for such a decline in industry, which is June 1941, but then the war began. Who are you fighting, Your Honor? With his own people and his own country?Oh, my God! Therefore, based on these conclusions, the fact that, today, essentially destroyed, including those directions that determine the State’s energy security, does not essentially operate the regulatory framework for relations in the Ukraine’s gas sector and the Russian Federation, the clear link between Ukraine’s obligations to transit gas into Europe and our partners’ obligations to provide an internal resource of natural gas for Ukraine has been lost to direct links with Central Asia. I can only give you one example. When the interstate commission of Ukraine-Turkmenistan was established in 2005, on the initiative of the Ukrainian side, as with our strategic partner, where they are co-chaired by the Presidents of Ukraine and Turkmenistan since then, there has been no meeting of this inter-State commission. What can be the result, besides deepening the crisis? As a result, we insist: the necessary extraordinary measures must be completed in strict terms in a fair and mutually beneficial negotiation process. Restoring the strategic sectors of Ukraine’s economy - chemical, metallurgical, and life - style of local self - government. You can't do that -- go aside and don't torture the Ukrainian people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u115	Ladies and gentlemen, we have concluded our consideration of this issue: the situation of Ukrainian-Russian gas relations and the situation of Ukraine's energy supply, the transit of natural gas by its territory to European consumers. Allow me, dear colleagues, some generalizations. The discussion today showed that we have a common position. It has such a common denominator, a deep concern about what is happening in Ukraine's energy supply, and a testimony to our conscious responsibility that adequate, complex measures must be taken to bring peace to Ukrainian society in order for Ukrainian policy to be forecasted. This is particularly important given that we are experiencing the second Ukrainian-Russian gas war, which is not yet over. However, the conclusion is obvious: Ukraine has lost, more specifically, itself even because Europe prefers its own interests on this issue. And it's obviously the right thing to do. Each country is concerned about its own interests, and obviously we should have a consolidated position on this issue – a position that is in the interests of Ukraine, the Ukrainian people. The sharper the question remains, and the sharper the question, the more determined the answer to that question should be. And so our policy should be defined. We must have both the power and the will to make an objective assessment of the relationship between Ukraine and Russia, the objective assessment, the institutions, and the people responsible for making this relationship predictable and effective. Obviously, we have not been able to approach a comprehensive consideration of the matter. Obviously, today we have not been able to determine whether or not there is an energy policy in Ukraine, including the energy supply problem in Ukraine. Ukraine has a gas transport system, Russia has gas, and we should probably be trying to have a clear, common position here. In this regard, respected colleagues, we need to make decisions on the outcome of the discussion. We held a meeting of the Conciliation Council and agreed on a draft decree to create a commission of inquiry to study this issue. We agreed in this way, dear colleagues, I would like to point out that I will read this decision -- and we will put it to a vote without discussion. There are two other draft decrees -- 3590 -- and we'll put it to a vote, as well as the appeal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation, and we'll put it to a vote in order to register these documents. [[author - People's MP Viacheslav Kirilenko]] No warning? So let me read the draft Supreme Council Regulation, registration number 3589. “According to article 89 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 82 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides: first, to establish a temporary investigation commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the functioning of Ukraine’s gas transport system and the provision of gas to consumers in 2008-2009; secondly, to establish a temporary commission of inquiry into the functioning of Ukraine’s gas transport system. [[Next - a temporary follow-up commission]] “ I read the date: 2008-2009. ‘Others. Identify the main task of the interim investigation commission to investigate the situation with the operation of Ukraine's gas transport system and the provision of gas to consumers in 2008-2009 and to exercise parliamentary control over the progress of negotiations aimed at restoring gas to Ukrainian consumers and gas transit to Europe, providing Ukrainian society with reliable information on this issue. The third is to determine that the interim commission of inquiry consists of 11 national deputies: the faction of the Party of the Regions – 4, the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko – 3, the faction “Our Ukraine – the People’s Self-Defense” – 2, the faction of the Company of Ukraine – 1, the faction “Block of Lithuania” – 1. To elect the head of the interim commission of inquiry of the Ukrainian national deputy of Godoslovak, deputy, deputy head of Goodim, secretary of Lithuania, clarification of Yuri. [[I'll only read the last names, I'm sorry.]] Four, five. To be elected as part of the interim commission of inquiry by such national deputies of Ukraine: Kisielova, Miroshnichenko, Koleschenko - faction of the Party of the Regions; Pashinsky, Gudima, Korja Viktora - faction of the Block of Yulia Timoshenko; Stackova and the Stick - faction of Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense; Czarkova - Company of Ukraine; Litwin is a faction of the Block of Lithuania, but it is already part of the governing body. Six. Material, technical, personnel, information and organizational support for the work of the Interim Investigation Commission to place the Supreme Council of Ukraine on its apparatus. Seven. Office of the Ministers of Ukraine, Secretary of the President of Ukraine, Ministry of Fuel and Energy, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, NAK Naftogazu, Ukraine, Attorney General's Office, Security Service, State Property Fund, State Tax Administration. What is it? . To the state. Unscramble. DMSU. What is it? DMSU.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u116	Customs.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u117	The Ukrainian State Customs Service, local government administrations, businesses, institutions and organizations, irrespective of the form of ownership and subordination, ensure compliance with Ukrainian law on the status of the Ukrainian National Deputy, on the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on the state secret concerning access to information, materials and documents by members of the interim commission of inquiry, including contracts relating to the main task of the temporary commission of inquiry and possible signs of corruption in the actions of officials and officials. Eight. The deadline for the commission of inquiry is 2 months from the date of adoption of this decision. Nine. Previous report of the Temporary Investigation Commission to hear a plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on February 6, 2009. This decision takes effect from the day it is adopted.” The proposal was made by the faction: Instead of Miroshnichnikov, Burlakova, because he would not be able to participate in the commission’s work. Once again, Burlakov instead of Miroshnikka. I'm voting on approval of the draft regulation as a whole as a ruling. [[Registration number 3589]] Well, we agreed on the Conciliation Council that I would put to the vote in general. No, we'll be there. Please. There's a vote coming. Please vote. [[13:06:07]] For 222 It's a show. I'll take the order. The factions, please. Region Party – 174, “Block of Timoshenko” – 2, “Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense” – 0, Communists – 27, “Block of Lithuania” – 19. Another decree. Dear colleagues, we have moved on to making decisions. Order, draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the situation of natural gas supply to Ukraine. [[Registration number 3590]] The author is the national deputy of Ukraine, Viacheslav Kirilenko. Viačeslav Anatoliyovich, if you don’t mind, we agreed that we would put all the decisions to the vote without discussion because we had finished the discussion. Is there no objection? I'm voting a draft decree for adoption as a whole as a ruling. [[Registration number 3590]] Ladies and gentlemen, please identify yourself. [[13:07:16]] For 105 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 2, Timoshenko Yulia Block – 37, Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense – 66, Communists and Litvina Block – 0. Come on. at the end. Now. Well, here we go. Dear colleagues, the author then, after the vote, is entitled to one minute. Please, Viacheslav Anatoliovich Kirilenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u118	Viacheslav Kirilenko, MP for Ukraine, Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense. Fellow dignitaries may not have been informed by members, especially from the “Julia Timoshenko Block. ” This is a ruling that practically supports the position of both the Prime Minister and the government and the President of the country in the gas negotiations. The point is that the gas transport system is not leased or privatized. That only the direct agreement “Gazprom” – “Naftogaz” and that we support the government's efforts in energy conservation and in ensuring the increase of its own gas production and the provision of alternative sources. Perhaps the fourth point of mistrust was that the Prime Minister should inform the Supreme Council monthly of the progress made in the implementation of this decree. I take this item off, I think we can do without monthly information and there will be enough information on the days of government in the Supreme Council according to the Rules. And so I ask you to return to the vote and partners with the BUIT to support the draft decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, since today is a day to preserve understanding, I am voting for a return to the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the situation of natural gas supply in Ukraine, registration No3590. Please determine how to vote. [[13:09:31]] For – 221 The decision is not taken. We're not back on the subject. The factions, please. Region Party – 0, Timoshenko Yulia Block – 152, "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" – 69, communists – 0, "Block of Lithuania" – 0. Dear colleagues, now another decree, 3593. There's a draft decision. That's a quote. Let me read it in the final edition that we agreed on. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll read, there are some clarifications. I'll read it. I'll put it to a vote. Address of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation. It's all given to you. Author of the project Oleg Zarubinski. “The Supreme Council of Ukraine, conscious of its responsibility to the Ukrainian people, expressing its respect for the highest representative body of the Russian people, has been forced to note that the atmosphere in the relations between the two countries has deteriorated and is becoming increasingly conflict-like. The latest misunderstanding about gas supply and transit endangers the standard of living and well - being of our citizens, which in turn affects the formation of appropriate negative attitudes in society. And the highest representative bodies cannot keep away from such unfavorable trends in relations between our nations and nations. The Supreme Council of Ukraine is convinced that it is Parliaments, where most decisions are made on the basis of compromises, will be able to promote understanding and constructive relations between our States in this Queen and would have an impact on the governments of the two States, encouraging them to restore direct international and legal regulation of relations between our States in the gas field. The Supreme Council of Ukraine advocates strengthening cooperation between the Ukrainian and Russian parliaments at all levels, refusing to find a negative, and moving to a qualitatively new stage of close interaction to produce an effective mechanism for inter-State relations. The focus of our work around unifying issues for both peoples will be a real prerequisite for productive parliamentary cooperation and will accordingly encourage other state institutions of both countries to settle a civilized inter-State dialogue.” I'll put it to a vote. We agreed to put it to a vote, I'll make the deal. I am voting on the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation for adoption as a whole. [[Registration number 3593]] Please vote. [[13:12:17]] For 168 Thank you, dear colleagues, for the constructive consideration of the matter. The factions? Please. Region Party – 1, Timoshenko Yulia Block – 117, Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense – 3, Communist faction – 27, Lithuanian Block – 20. Question completed. The draft law amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine on the extension of the number of persons entitled to file a complaint is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 3074]] You and I have decided to review the bills on short notice. Reporter: Justice Minister Mikola Vasilovich Onichuk Correspondent: Secretary of the Committee for the Legislative Security of Beváv Valéri Ananiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u120	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! The draft law that I have just been asked to report on amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine on the extension of the number of persons entitled to appeal has been designed to reconcile the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Law with the provisions of article 129 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which guarantees and guarantees the right of citizens of Ukraine to appeal and appeal in the event of their being brought to court. According to current legislation, an interested person or his representative may file a complaint against the decision of the knowledge body, the investigator, the prosecutor, to refuse a criminal offence. At the same time, in many cases such a complaint is dissatisfactioned, and the person who filed it disagrees with the court’s decision and wishes to sue him in an appeal and, if necessary, in a cassational order. In doing so, if the number of persons entitled to appeal is not exhaustive, the article, a valid article, contains a comprehensive list of persons who can challenge a court’s decision in a cassational order. That is to say, the decisions of the knowledge body, the investigator or the prosecutor to refuse a criminal offence on the basis of a statement made by the interested person today cannot be charged in a cassational order. The Constitutional Court of Ukraine recognized this as a violation of the rights of citizens of Ukraine in its decision of 11 December 2007 on the constitutional application of a citizen of Cassianenka. In this regard, the President of Ukraine proposes to amend article 383 of the Code and to strengthen the right of interested persons to appeal in a case where they are refused criminal offences.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u121	Finish up, please, Mikola Vasilovich. Have a seat, please. Let's write it down: two in a row, two in a row. As long as the committee's report, Valeriy Ananiyovich Bevles, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u122	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, I would like to focus your attention on one detail. The thing is, we've come across this situation where you've got two drafts in order of the day. The first, the one who reported to the minister and the second, is 1305, which was introduced by the national deputy Moses a year ago. The Committee on Legislative Security and Law Protection considered both the bill and the bill. And we've come to a conclusion, we're talking about the committee, that they're exactly the same thing as these two bills. Because as early as December 27, 2007, the People’s Deputy Moses passed an appropriate bill for consideration by the Committee and then the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The committee considered these two bills and recommended the first bill, which had just been reported by the minister, removed from the agenda and returned to Bill 1305, which, in the view of the committee, is more perfect and convenient in the use of further activities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u123	Thank you, sit down, please. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u124	Yury Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense. Dear people's deputies, somehow with a gas flavor, we're touching the issues of the Criminal Procedure Code. In fact, we needed to hear the answer here, including law enforcement officials, about whether someone is stealing gas or not. We didn't hear a report here from either the Security Service or the Attorney General's Office or the Ministry of Internal Affairs. This needs to be made up and given protocol at least by commission. Now that the rules of the ruling have been violated, they have not taken a decision. Kirilenka's absolutely normal ruling, doesn't like anything, has to be added, but it has to be done and it will be back to that, and I propose that the Supreme Council's leadership harmonize the text of the ruling and accept it, the barren Supreme Council cannot be in this conflict. Regarding the changes to the Criminal Procedure Code, I want to remind all of the people's deputies that we have a huge debt, we've been working under the Criminal Procedure Code since 1960. I'm going to the committees, or we're going to have to decompose some committees, or let's see a new draft of the Criminal Procedure Code today. And I address the President's representatives. It is absolutely true that the Mosaic Law is better, but look, it was passed on December 28, 2007. When the President's name is given, the bill is August 27, 2008, or eight months later. Eight months, well, I guess we should have looked at it then and it wasn't necessary, I understand, the President is great, but the President doesn't know anything about the Criminal Procedure Code, if he did, there would be a new Criminal Procedure Code. So I propose to adopt the Mosaic bill in two readings, first and second readings at once. That's exactly what's going on in connection with the Criminal Procedure Code. And about the Criminal Procedure Code. Come on, give me an assignment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u125	Thank you. Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u126	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we have recently observed some strange indifference of the President's secretariat to the law-making work. This is not the first time that a bill of the Ukrainian People's Deputy comes into existence in a short period of time by the administration or the secretariat, I don't know what to call it now, so there are no such things, for example, on the part of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I want to remind you of a fresh example of the bill on social status and protection of large families. We've been looking at another bill recently, and again, it was an MP at first, and then it's going to be President of Ukraine. So I don't think that there's such a huge machine, which is the money we're allocating from the budget to keep the President's Secretariat, that there's no intelligent people to initiate on behalf of the President, for example, bills aimed at reforming the socio-economic sphere of our lives. We're here in this room never, I've forgotten the last time I've heard words like productivity, efficiency of production, fund-raising, energy conservation, pension reform, it's in place. I'd like the President, from the constitutional rights guarantor, to draft a bill that would unlock the pension reform. Regarding what Comrade Carmazin said. He's actually right, because the issue of criminal justice, the Criminal Procedural Code, the Master Code, the Civil Code, the Family Code of Improvement need to be introduced, because time is coming. But remember, your honorary colleagues, the fourth call under the criminal regime of Kuchma, how many codes have we adopted in this session room? And what, now, is all of our power directed at? Some kind of whistle. One in a row, he wrote, I'm sorry that the plagiarism is handled by the President's Secretariat. That's why I took the floor to speak out against it, because we need to support the bill of a colleague of Moses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u127	Question completed. I am voting on draft 3074 of the Amendment Act to the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine concerning the extension of the number of persons entitled to file a complaint. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:22:41]] For-54 The decision is not taken. A draft Act amending article 384 of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code is under consideration. [[No. 1305]] According to Vladimir Romanovich Moysik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u128	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! The provisions of the Ukrainian Code of Criminal Procedure allowed for the prosecution of only criminal offences. Sometime later, you and I changed our minds and allowed us to press charges and orders against a criminal case that was subject only to an appeal. In December 2007, a citizen of Cassianenko appealed to the Constitutional Court, and the court explained the situation of article 129 of the Constitution that the right to a cassational and appeal appeal was also extended to decisions denying a criminal offence. So two months after that decision, I made a legislative proposal to supplement article 384 by saying that the persons who are accusing the decision to refuse a criminal offence are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the By the way. Such a proposal is recorded in the decision of the Constitutional Court, and there is a reference to the Supreme Council to amend article 384. And one more thing, dear colleagues who are concerned with the Criminal Procedure Code. As Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin said in his 2006 post as Head of the Supreme Council, the Ukrainian Parliament has not actually worked. But it's worked out in the fourth vocation of the Criminal Procedure Code to second reading, and it's now registered again as before the first reading. It takes time to listen to him, get your suggestions, and we're ready to adopt the Criminal Procedure Code. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u129	Thank you, Vladimir Romanovich. Please have a seat. Two in, two in, two in. People's MP Verni Dubov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u130	Thank you. Dear friends, really, when you're looking at such bills that arise on the same subject after the bill is already being discussed, including in the committees, maybe the submission by the President of Ukraine on the same issue from the same subject is the only thing that benefits us: that there is no unemployment during the crisis, because lawyers do not monitor it for what is happening in Parliament. And you begin to question whether the main activity of the deputies is the rule of law. I guess there's more to it than just making sure that there's no plagiarism or laws that society doesn't need. The idea of good is expressed in the People's Deputy's Project that everyone has the right to a trial and to an accusation of those actions, and to seek a solution to a matter that is not satisfied. Moreover, the decision of the Constitutional Court is on this issue. So, of course, I urge my colleagues to support and vote for the bill that Moses passed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u131	All desiring national MPs have spoken about the bill. The discussion is over. I am voting on the adoption, in the first reading, of the draft Act amending article 384 of the Ukrainian Code of Criminal Procedure. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:27:24]] For 396 Decision taken. The committee proposes to adopt this bill as a whole. Is there a denial of national MPs? None of the national deputies deny it. I am voting on the adoption of the entire draft Law amending article 384 of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:28:04]] For 396 Decision taken. The law has been passed in general. Here's the question -- the draft law amending the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code, the Presidential Initiative. [[on the prosecution of criminal offences]] [[No. 2380]] Report – Minister of Justice of Ukraine Onichuk Mikola Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u132	The Honourable Chairman, the Honourable People's Deputies, your opinion is proposed by a bill amending Ukraine's Criminal Procedure Code. which, once again, refers to the subject of charges of criminal offences. As we know, the Supreme Council of Ukraine took a very important step on 14 December 2006 and amended the law. to the Criminal Procedure Code, which provides for the possibility of arraigning the orders of the investigating authority, the prosecutor for a criminal offence. At the same time, the practice of applying this is important. This important constitutional guarantee for the protection of a person’s rights has also revealed some flaws in the application of the judicial complaint mechanism. In this connection, the President proposes to amend a number of articles of the Criminal Procedure Code, in particular articles 206, 236 and 7, Articles 236 and 8 and Article 382 of the Criminal Procedure Code, by improving the procedure for handling complaints of criminal offences with a view to ensuring timely and objective consideration of such complaints with respect to the constitutional guarantees of human rights and freedoms. In particular, it's about setting up a 10-day deadline for the prosecution of a criminal offence. This proposal is based on the fact that, to date, the right to an accusation exists throughout the period of the case, when the case is at the stage of the pretrial investigation and there is a certain imbalance and where the logic is that the investigation of the case may be completed, an indictment may already be brought and the right to an accusation of a violation order is still possible. And another change, my fellow dignitaries, is also proposed to clarify the position of article 236 with the 8 badge, which is presented in the new edition. In particular, as proposed in this article of the Code of Judge, the result of the examination of a complaint is that of a judge.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u133	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u134	Thank you. . the criminal offence order may, on appropriate grounds, satisfy the complaint and revoke the order to file a misdemeanour with the return of the material to the prosecutor. This provision will remove the power of the court to order the refusal of a violation of a case and thereby deprive the State of its constitutional right to criminal prosecution. The point is that the courts cannot replace the organs of criminal persecution. Yes, the court has the right to revoke the order for a criminal offence, but the court has no right to refuse a criminal case because it is the competent authority of the law enforcement body. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u135	From the committee, National Deputy Oliynik Svetoslav Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u136	Dear colleagues! In your view, Bill 2380 is proposed to amend the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code. The subject of the legislative initiative, the President of Ukraine, proposes a number of additions to the law in force today’s indictment of a criminal case. All the changes proposed are designed to reduce the existing procedural rights of individuals. In particular, it is suggested that the term of the complaint should be limited, that the court should not suspend the proceedings, that it should be restricted to persons who may challenge such a decision and to a suspect whose status is not defined today in the Code, which makes such an accusation impossible at all, and that the court’s right to put an end to the issue of criminal persecution and to enforce the law on an endless circle. I want to remind you of the story of the question. In the Supreme Council, 404 national deputies voted in favour of this law of their time. Representatives of all parliamentary factions have found a bad situation when the total abolition of law enforcement authorities has led to the emergence in the lexicon of such disgraceful terms as “mask show”, “fass!” and so on, and all — both businessmen and political representatives — to see such work on themselves. During the last two years, these shameful phenomena have declined significantly, including through the operation of this law. The Supreme Council Committee on Justice, where legal professionals work from all factions, finds it inappropriate today to correct existing laws and reduce the scope of existing rights and freedoms. Any law needs improvement when it's applied in practice. But today, apparently, the law enforcement system is not yet ready for civilized work, and it is inappropriate to reduce the procedural rights of people who are granted protection. Please support the committee’s proposal and return the bill to the subject of the legislative initiative.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u137	Thank you. Let's sign up for the discussion. Verni Dubov Ivan Vasilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u138	Thank you. Dear friends, the question is really mature and the right thing to do is that the law, which even though it was adopted by 404 votes, is, I think, this is the case where the MPs made a mistake. There should be no obstacle for the investigating authorities. As Olijnik said, one of them was the law enforcement order, which turned into a home invasion of the judiciary when the investigation was paralyzed from many resonating cases. And we know that. So I'm sure one day we're going to come to the conclusion that we're actually canceling this inequity of the judiciary's function of rescinding the criminal record. If, theoretically speaking, I think that scientists who listen to me understand that a decision on a criminal offence cannot be overturned if the investigation has already been carried out. It can only be cancelled if there is no investigative action. But it's a theory. And the practice is that we know that in the Supreme Council, if there are several bills that apply to the same subject, they should be considered at the same time as in the previous case. I would like to draw the attention of the MPs that there is already a bill by the deputies of Sweden, Moscow and the same Moses number 1337, which I believe is presented earlier and which, although it is trying to interfere a little bit with the judiciary's claim, is more balanced, more specific and I would like this bill to be considered today, not the President's. And in this case, I support the reporter that's presidential.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u139	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u140	I propose that the Presidential Bill be sent for further consideration at the same time as Bill No. 1337. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u141	Bev Valeriy Ananiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u142	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich! I fully support my colleague and Oliynik and Verniub. And I want to say one more thing, if we go today at all to vote for this bill today, it will allow the representatives of the judiciary at all freely to interpret these norms that we are going to introduce into existing legislation. That's why I'm backing up the work and in the complex to consider both the previous bill and the previous one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u143	Pisarenko Valeriy Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u144	Thank you. Dear colleagues! This is how we react to this law today, without realizing that the system that we've built just recently to protect citizens' rights is changing. Look. Now we're only doing one thing, we're restricting citizens' rights in court. Because it is easy for you to talk when you are sitting with a deputy’s mandate to talk about the fact that there is no need to limit the investigation in your actions today. And when today. thousands of criminal cases were still being committed, and today thousands of criminal cases are being prosecuted just to require entrepreneurs from other persons, some actions that are certain for the benefit of such law enforcement agencies. So I want to tell you that there must be a mechanism to protect people. And it's those 404 votes that you and I have cast here for the existence of such a situation that we must now protect with you. No one says that this law is too perfect. But only one thing can be done to narrow down the list of rights for a person who wants only to defend himself, the right to freedom, and so on. And you know, I'm very surprised that today there are statements by individual representatives of the political forces, who themselves in the ranks of these political forces, their colleagues, acquaintances, have already used this law, and only by this law have many people today been left free because of illegal persecution, so today all we have to do is protect the human right to defend ourselves in court. So, of course, we cannot support such a law. Perhaps it should be sent for further processing. But I don't know that you can work on a law that is just a set of restrictions for a citizen. So our faction will not vote in favour of this law. We propose not to vote at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u145	The discussion is over. I am voting on draft Act No. 2380 amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:39:24]] For-40 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. By factions, please: The Party of the Regions – 1, "The Block of July Timoshenko" – 0, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" – 20, communists - 0, "Block of Lithuania" – 19. A draft law amending the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Judiciality on jurisdiction in disputes involving the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the President of Ukraine or the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine number 3406 is under consideration. Report – Minister of Justice of Ukraine Mikola Vasilovich Onichuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u146	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! May I have your attention, an extremely important law. It is to amend the current Code of Administrative Justice and to provide for the provision that acts of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, apart from laws, government decrees, the President's decrees in the event of their accusation should be dealt with by the first instance solely by the Court of Appeal of Kiev. As you know, today’s current provisions, such as articles 19 of the Code of Administrative Justice, provide that regardless of what action is being brought against the authorities in question, he is being accused of staying where he resides, of the place where the defendant resides, that is, the person who seeks to defend the violated right. So we have a typical situation where administrative courts in any region of Ukraine are looking at acts of parliament, the President, the Cabinet of Ministers, and it is well known that this has led to a number of cases where, in fact, there was no room for uneven application of the law, generally illegal decisions, abuses of law, etc. In this regard, the President proposes, as I have already said, that appropriate amendments be made to the Code of Administrative Justice and that the rule be laid down that the acts of the President, the Supreme Council, apart from the laws and regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers at the first instance were considered by the Court of Appeal of Kiev. That's the first position. And the second point is that when it comes to the charges of acts by the designated authorities, which I have just mentioned from the issues of public service discharge or admission to public service, the conduct of the public service, so that no action can be taken on such disputes as a stay in order to secure a suit as a termination of the relevant act. In our view, from the President's point of view, this will allow for better quality justice in the relevant categories of cases, while providing shorter time frames for these cases. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u147	Thank you, Mikolo Vasilovich, please sit down. The committee reports to Julia Volodymyrna Novikova.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u148	At a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on justice issues, a bill submitted by the President of Ukraine, No. 3406, aimed at ensuring effective handling of cases in disputes involving the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the President of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The bill is intended to regulate the issue of the territorial and institutional jurisdiction of administrative matters relating to the acts of the authorities in question. Also, the features of the prosecution in this category of cases, as well as the failure to stop the actions of the accused in order to secure an administrative action. The committee notes that several bills have been tabled from this issue, but they are not being considered. It is also true that the individual provisions of the bill need to be revised and clarified, which can be done in preparing the bill for the second reading. The project received the support of the Supreme Administrative Court, and no comments were received. There is also a positive conclusion from the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. The Ukrainian Supreme Council Committee on Budgets on the outcome of the review is of the opinion that the standards of the project will have no impact on the income or expenditure of the national budget of Ukraine or the local budgets. The Committee on Justice therefore considers it possible to recommend a bill to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a basis for the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u149	Thank you, Julia Volodymyrna. Have a seat. Please. Let's sign up for a discussion. Bev Valeriy Ananiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u150	There's one point, my fellow Members, is that there's a sense that we're adopting some kind of law into specific people and into specific situations. If we are talking about institutional and territorial subordination, then let us consider these issues in a comprehensive manner, not just under three subjects: the President, the Supreme Council, and the Cabinet of Ministers. I think that would be much more appropriate. And that's why I have this proposal, this bill to remove and send for processing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u151	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u152	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to support this bill because although it was introduced on 20 November 2008, it shows that the President clearly supports the existence of an administrative court in Kiev. At least that's how I see it from the content of a law that was then destroyed by illegal decrees, as you all know. In fact, this law does not apply only to the standards discussed. It also applies to the procedural order because these decisions in administrative matters provided for in this article are brought before the Supreme Administrative Court in an appeal. Will there be a violation of citizens’ rights at the same time or not? I don't think there's going to be a violation of that, but what we're going to write down in the law, that when we don't get the approvals in order, and we don't want any action to be done by either the Supreme Council or the President or the Cabinet of Ministers -- it's obviously the right thing to stop these acts before the lawsuit is resolved. So I think that the law is perfectly written and can be adopted in the first reading, and then it can be adopted, and those bills are incorporated here, which were introduced in this regard. Because in principle it is positive, it writes and details how to conduct cases in connection with the prosecution of legal acts, the admission of citizens to public service, its passage, the release from public service. And then the specialization will also help in the administrations to deal with these cases. So I'm asking you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u153	Filipenko Volodymyr Pilipovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u154	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the BUT faction will certainly not support this bill and we call for other factions of Parliament to be united with us. I'll explain briefly why. First of all, note what is proposed by the legislator. The President, in a clear understanding of the substance of his actions, suggests that the law should not be allowed to stop acts while securing a lawsuit. At the same time, article 106 of the Ukrainian Constitution gives the President the right to stop such acts. It turns out that the President has the right to stop acts of state authority, and the court, as a branch of government, will no longer have the right to stop it. At the same time, it is also prohibited to secure a lawsuit when dealing with cases involving election committees. And I want to remind all of us, remember the 2004 elections when the Supreme Court heard the case and the Central Election Commission announced the results of the elections. What happened then? Third tour. And by the time the electoral proceedings were heard in 2006 and 2007, already under the Code of Administrative Justice, it had become a practice for the Supreme Administrative Court to stop and prohibit the Central Electoral Commission from declaring the results of the elections to resolve the dispute essentially as regards their legality. And now that we've adopted this bill, we're actually going to be on those rakes that were under the 2004 Code of Administrative Justice. What I would also like to point out is that it is proposed that cases concerning the prosecution of acts by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers and the President be transferred, even with regard to acts of individual action transferred to the Court of Appeal, whose jurisdiction extends to the city of Kiev. And we all have witnessed events in this court of justice run by Mr. Nastawajchenko along with Alfa, where people's deputies can't even file complaints with the Attorney General's Office, but they only listen to complaints from the Secretary of the President's Office. So now the judges are not going to rule justice, are they going to rule the B.C.U. and the Alpha? This, too, cannot be allowed because it violates all the principles of justice. At the same time, it limits citizens’ access to such justice, since all of them.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u155	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u156	Because citizens will be forced to drive now to challenge their rights to Kiev rather than to address their place of residence. So, what will all of Ukraine do now in the court of Nadravichenko? So please don't support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u157	Verni Dubov Ivan Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u158	Dear colleagues, indeed, after listening to every decision made by the courts in Chipilova that suspends or annuls the actions of the President, the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers, we come to the conclusion that I am hearing that such a bill is necessary, it needs to be passed, and we need to address these issues, which have been successfully resolved in the Code of Administrative Justice, which does not contribute to the achievement of a just and, above all, understandable judiciary. But I have to point out again to my colleagues that the Supreme Council of Ukraine is currently looking at two drafts, and they have been registered much earlier. [[They're in my hands.]] For example, Bill Zvarič Romana, number 2016, registered on February 7th of this year on this subject. Bill number 2607 of the deputies Stetkova and Stretovic. And somehow, at the same time, they're not back in the daytime. And I think it would really be more right and more constructive to consider these bills, especially because, for example, the Supreme Council's Scientific and Experimental Authority considers Bill 2607 Stetkova and Stretovich, most of his positions correct. And really, and in my opinion, it's also more specific when it comes to solving all these things. And that's why I'm proposing today that the President's bill reject these very motives and consider with other bills. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u159	The discussion is over. I am voting on the first reading of draft Law 3406: amending the Code of Administrative Justice of Ukraine. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:52:03]] For-39 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. The next question needs to be included in the agenda of the day session. This is the President of Ukraine's legislative initiative - draft Law 3475: amending article 17 of the Ukrainian Electricity Act. I'm putting to the vote the inclusion in the agenda of the marked draft law. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:52:47]] For 224 The decision is not taken. The bill is not included in the agenda of the day session. The next issue is the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's laws on taxation during the final part of the 2012 European Football Championship in Ukraine. Registration number 2372, reports Fudaskin Deputy Finance Minister Denis Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u160	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs, honourable chairman, the purpose of the bill is to create an enabling environment for the organisation and to hold the final part of Euro, the 2012 European Football Championship. The bill proposes to amend Ukraine’s law on taxation of business income in part of the exemption from UEFA revenue tax in Ukraine as a result of the 2012 European Football Championship, in particular the UEFA’s sales of marketing rights or media rights. The law also provides for amendments to the Ukrainian Act on Taxes on Added Costs for the Temporary Implementation, temporarily for the period of the final part of the European Football Championship in Ukraine, exemption from tax on added value, import operations for goods, capital assets received by the UEFA Organising Committee in Ukraine. The bill also provides for amendments to the Law on Taxes on the Income of Individuals, to exempt individuals other than residents of Ukraine from taxation, irrespective of their participation in the championship in part of the payments they have paid for their work, or to provide services in Ukraine, or abroad in connection with the holding of that championship, including, but not excluded in the form of wages, expenses and subsistence allowances. Please support this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u161	Please sit down. From the Committee, Bondarev Constantine Anatoliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u162	Good day, Honourable Head, Honourable People's Deputies, Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Tax and Customs Policy at its meeting on 7 May 2008, reviewed the draft Ukrainian law amending certain Ukrainian laws on taxation during the final part of the 2012 European Championship in Ukraine, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. As already noted by the rapporteur, a bill has been drafted to create favourable conditions for organizing and holding the final part of the 2012 European Championship from football in Ukraine in the form of exemption from UEFA income tax in Ukraine from corporate income tax. In addition, transactions involving imports of goods, capital assets, received by a representative of the UEFA Organizing Committee in Ukraine from the value added tax. Also, the amount of income received for work or services rendered in Ukraine or outside the limits assigned to authorized persons other than residents of Ukraine, regardless of their participation in the championship, from the payment of taxes on the income of natural persons. When considering the bill at the committee meeting, attention was drawn to the fact that the draft bill did not take into account the circumstances that the final part of the 2012 football championship would take place not only in Ukraine but also in Poland. As a result, there were no special features in the introduction of a special tax regime that took account of the different regimes of these countries. I mean, there were certain comments, but given that the bill was set. is defined as the first priority, whose implementation will be facilitated by the preparations and the 2012 European football championship in Ukraine, as well as with a view to investing in the real economy, we ask the Supreme Council to support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u163	Thank you, Constantine Anatolyovich. But it would be a request that you report, not your own point of view, but the decision of the committee. It says here a little differently, in a decision. Let's sign up for a discussion. National Deputy Kojara, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u164	Please give the floor to Deputy Korjeu.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u165	Please specify who you are conveying the word to. Please. Please, National Deputy Korge.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u166	Party of regions, Deputy Corge Victor Petrovich. Dear colleagues, surely our faction will vote in favour of this bill. But I don't see why he's stuck for a year. The president and the prime minister were commissioned a year ago to prepare a whole series of laws and in particular this one. And what has just been discovered that the championship will not only be in Ukraine but also in Poland is surprising. And I would like to take this opportunity to say that this law in the packet could have been adopted last because it would have worked exactly three weeks and exactly three years later, during the Euro. And today, we've all been waiting for the draft Euro 2012 National Programme Act and a whole series of other road-related laws. So, honourable colleagues, I think that this pace of legislative activity with regard to the Euro 2012 is completely out of line with us, members of the Party of Regions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u167	National deputy, Zebrovsky. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u168	I believe that this law certainly needs to be supported, since it seriously regulates the procedures to be followed during the Euro - 2012. Clearly, this is a European practice, and virtually all countries that keep the euro within themselves are adopting similar laws. Although I would warn against adopting this bill today as a whole, because I would focus on importing equipment, mechanisms, UEFA goods. Where will they go after the Euro-2012? How far will they go? I think that once the small law has been redrafted, this law can be voted on as a whole. And today I invite all the deputies to vote on this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u169	National MP Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u170	In support of this bill as a whole, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, in the further submission of such documents and the committee, and the government have given financial and economic justifications more deeply and the impact of such actions on Ukraine's budget would, first of all, also enrich our perception of these documents and our attitude has been more clearly defined. The rest I'd like to pass on time to Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u171	Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u172	Dear colleagues! The faction will support the adoption of this bill in the first reading, and I am addressing all the committees of the Supreme Council, which are involved in the Euro-2012 theme, which is the perspective of our country, the perspective of the state. Experts counted 47 new legislative acts a year ago to address all issues related to this major world action in Ukraine. So I would ask the committees or the relevant government structures not to delay their work so that we can accept the entire legal framework in March. Because today the Supreme Council has been cut short before the Euro-2012. Please put to the vote, the room will support, I think all the factions in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-01-13-m0.u173	The discussion is over, and I am voting on the adoption in the first reading of the draft law amending some of the laws of Ukraine on taxation during the final part of the 2012 European Football Championship in Ukraine. Registration number 2372. I'd like to make up my mind. [[14:02:19]] For 391 Decision taken. The morning plenary session is closed. The evening plenary meeting will begin at 16:00.
