ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please register. Please prepare for registration. So, your honor, have you prepared for your registration? Enable the Council system. [[10:01:40]] [[Registration of Ukrainian National Deputies]] A total of 390 national deputies registered in the session hall. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with part two of article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine and part two of article 11 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, have requested 151 deputies to convene an extraordinary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine with a fixed agenda. That's why we're meeting today at the extraordinary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The next session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on the sixth call, has been announced. [[The Moon of the Hymn of Ukraine]] Dear National Deputies! As you know, two issues have been proposed in the agenda of the day-to-day initiation of the call for an extra-session session, namely: the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2009 and some other Ukrainian laws with proposals by the President of Ukraine since 3 August 2009 and the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts on Elections of the President of Ukraine with proposals by the President of Ukraine since 18 August 2009. [[Registration number 4735-1]] [[Registration number 4741]] At nine o'clock, there was a meeting of the Conciliation Board to discuss the agenda proposed by the initiators for the day's non-commissioned session. During the discussion, a number of problems arose that needed further consultation and clarification, namely with regard to the first law. The question was that today the Cabinet of Ministers' ruling was in force on this issue, which was largely inconsistent with the law that we should consider and make a final decision on it. It also raised questions about the monitoring of the spending planned for the financing of Euro-2012 preparations. And another point is who's going to benefit from these funds: Ukrainian businesses, Ukrainian workers, or mostly people from outside Ukraine. As a result, there was a need to reconcile positions between factions and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. There were also comments and warnings about the Act amending certain Ukrainian laws regarding the election of the President of Ukraine. Because, as you know, there are many legal and political debates around this, including the President's remarks on page 30. So this question also needs some reconciliation. It was proposed as a compromise, as finding a common position to consider the first question and to add to it a draft decision that clearly identifies several positions, namely: this is a government obligation to ensure that any costs of Euro-2012 preparation are in line with the relevant committees of the Supreme Council and that this is done openly and transparently. The other one. Assignment to the relevant supervisory bodies, including the Court of Auditors, to ensure constant monitoring of spending and to inform the public and the Supreme Council of Ukraine quarterly on this matter. With regard to the second question, it is suggested that, after considering it, a decision be taken to entrust the relevant committee of profile in the process of implementing the law and further consultations on the proposals that are already before this law to propose appropriate recommendations to the Supreme Council of Ukraine in order to make the necessary point changes and clarifications in the process of work. One minute, I'm talking about offers. In this connection, it is suggested that we do this job by taking a break at 1:00 p.m. and holding a meeting of the Conciliation Council at 2 p.m. to continue our plenary work. I'm calling it a break until the 14th. What, what? Order of the day, respectable colleagues, formed. Wait a minute! In accordance with article 83 of the Constitution, the daily order can be determined solely by the initiators of the extraordinary session, namely, the President of Ukraine if he is the initiator of the non-replacement session or by a group of deputies of not less than 150. If I bring to the knowledge of the leaders of the faction of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, if no agreement is reached, I will be forced to bring these issues to the attention of the Supreme Council in order for the Supreme Council of Ukraine to make a comprehensive final decision for them. There's a break to 14 o'clock. At 14 o'clock we continue to work in plenary mode and then exchange thoughts about further organization of our work. Thank you. At 1:00 p.m., the Conciliation Council meeting.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, take your seats so that we can continue to work in plenary mode. Please invite the national deputies to the session room. Yeah, yeah, all factions. Dear colleagues! We held a meeting of the Conciliation Council at 13 o'clock, as if we had agreed on positions to allow us to have a regular discussion of the issues identified by the day-to-day initiators of the extraordinary session. So let's start a practical consideration of the issues. And in the process of working, if we have to reconcile our positions. Is there no objection? The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian National Budget 2009 Act and some other Ukrainian laws, with proposals by the President of Ukraine dated August 03, 2009, has been announced for consideration. The rapporteur is the representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Deputy Head of the Secretariat of Igor Volodymyrovic Popov. Please, Igor Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u3	The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Dear National Deputies! The President of Ukraine is committed to the adoption by the Supreme Council on 1 July 2009 of the Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Act on State Budget 2009 and certain other laws of Ukraine. To convince the head of state, the law violates the fundamental foundations of the state's financial system, replaces the constitutional mission of the National Bank of Ukraine, transforming it into a printing press for budget purposes, exposes all Ukrainian citizens to the risk of inflation, the collapse of the national currency, the rapid decline in the standard of living of our people. I would like to remind you that the Constitution of Ukraine, the National Bank of Ukraine Act, gives it full legal and operational independence with a view to implementing its main task of maintaining the stability of the Ukrainian monetary unit. The current legislation is fully in line with the world practice of the central bank and the budget. In the case of an excess of the income of the NBA over its expenditure, the amount of such a surplus is allocated to the budget. In the event that the central bank, in performing its basic function, has suffered damage, the government's budget compensates. In doing so, income or damage, as in all civilized nations, is calculated only on the basis of the year and is checked by an authoritative audit firm. This fundamental principle is being broken by the consecrated law. It is proposed that the 2009 NBA’s income is estimated at nearly 10 billion dollars. Moreover, an advance recalculation of the central bank’s income is proposed to be implemented from now on and forever. The central bank is faced with a conflict of tasks: either to perform its constitutional function regarding the stability of the bracelet, or to earn money for the budget. The latest estimates of the NBA show that the real profit of the NBA can be around 700 million dollars in 2009. Where do you get an advance of 10 billion? If you set yourself the main goal of making a profit of 10 billion dollars, you can either artificially devalue the currency of the currency and sell the currency from the reserves of the NBA by 10 or 15 dollars per dollar, or raise the refund rate for commercial banks to 30-40 percent, or banally print that amount of money, which is actually proposed by the law. Yet the stability of the prices of bracelets and commercial banks must be forgotten. Ladies and gentlemen, we quickly forgot our inflation lessons in 1993. It took seven long years to correct the inflation situation and it seemed that it would take forever to impose rule 15 of the Ukrainian Budget Code, the National Bank, to ban the lending of the state budget. Another important aspect. The law by the President of Ukraine provides for the State to refuse to recalculate 25 percent of the central bank’s income on the basis of the year’s income in favour of the Deposit Guarantee Fund. I'll remind you, in the fund today, 4.6 billion dollars, on the other hand, is possible costs, given only a fraction of the banks that have temporary administrations in place can make 17.3 billion dollars. A standard of 25 percent was accepted by Parliament only six months ago as one of the main anti-crisis measures aimed at financing and filling the fund. This rule has certainly proved that the legislator will not leave the depositors of the bankrupt banks on their own. It has been six months, and national deputies have found more important applications for this money. Not at all, to my conviction, the legislation to act as our government, which, with the same million, makes promises to the airlines, then to the agrarians, then to the foreign Ukrainians. Thus, the decline in the deposit guarantee fund will inevitably lead to a resurgence of the negative process of the bank’s investor’s spending. And the head of state in his veto also calls attention to the violation of the constitutional independence of the National Bank of Ukraine, which, in accordance with the laws of the willed state, should report to the government on its assets and the impossibility of delegation by the Supreme Council of its budgetary powers to the government, etc. But in the absence of time, I will stop at just one fundamental moment. An advance from the NBA of almost 10 billion dollars should go to the noblest goal of preparing Ukraine for the Euro-2012 football championship. I would like to remind myself that the current budget provides for the financing of the Euro-2012 of 7.8 billion dollars through special taxes for the “Stafftodor” due to the costs of privatization. These funds are not available or are not sufficient because of borrowing and State guarantees. How did the Poles, our partners in the football championship? As early as May this year, the Polish government, with further parliamentary support, passed a law, a plan to limit spending. The spending-restriction plan saves 10 billion zlotys, about 3.4 billion dollars, through the review of budget expenditure for ministries and voivodships, separate government institutions and programs, and so on. The cost of 9.7 billion zlotys, that's 3.2 billion dollars, is going to be used to build road infrastructure. We don't have a hand in 20 ministries, 143 deputy ministers, 232 heads of central executives. The government is conducting a large - scale show inviting thousands of heads of local self - government, illegally devoting 15 million dollars from the reserve fund, promises rarely to keep their promises, increasing the number of local officials by one and a half thousand. So we don't have the political will to do it like Poles. But let's at least give the advance 10 billion dollars, let's reduce the record budget deficit in other articles. I recall that the budget deficit, taking into account the problems of NAC NaftoGaz Ukraine, exceeds 100 billion dollars. The 2009 Budget Act allows some of these funds to be used for bank capitalization. Part of it is the need for agrarians, part of it is the Euro-2012, etc. But by the way, the law does not allow these funds to buy housing for militias, with all due respect for them and their problems. The law does not allow investment guarantees to be given to design abroad of our field-based obstetric points, which have been issued by the government. I realize that it's easier to close your eyes than to allocate a new and reliable resource to the Euro, an advance from the National Bank of Ukraine, thereby inflating the budget with an additional emission of 10 billion dollars. However, once again, the funding for the Euro-2012 budget is foreseen. Under the leadership of the President of Ukraine, the NBU, Minfin, Treasury, Autotodora have implemented special funding schemes. They provide for a clear order of spending, support for the resources of commercial banks and the NBA, the opening of special accounts for all Euro preparers, double controls on the side of treasury and the NBA for the purpose of using these funds. Special decrees have been made for the government and the NBU. With the work done in a week or two, we can start funding. Why, then, do we ignore the law that is in force and invent things that are incomprehensible? To make it easy to get and use 10 billion dollars. But then it's definitely the case where the simplicity of stealing is worse. I am convinced that you, the people's deputies, will listen to the arguments of the President of Ukraine. I would also like to take a look at the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, which in most cases agrees with the President's proposals. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, the President's report has been completed. Do you have a question for the reporter? If they are, please sign in. It's recorded on the scene. Please have the names of the national MPs who signed up. Anton Adventure, faction of the Party of Regions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u5	Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u6	Dear reporter! Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Clearly, among the arguments you are making are those that are the subject of discussion. But you know, I've isolated the quintension of what you said, and those remarks by the President are the need to ensure the independence of the National Bank. I think it was worth paying attention to you as the representative of the President and the President, who is always looking after the National Bank, about the independence of the National Bank from the state already. Today, the National Bank is “breathing” commercial banks, which continue not to provide people with savings, deposits. He knows that. The vast majority of banks do not comply with their own decision. More specifically, the Nutzbank Ordinance, and people don't go to the money they put in their time. Maybe it's a complex way to look at the National Bank's problem and eventually not to protect it, but to control it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u7	I agree with Mr. Oleg's formulation that there is really a big problem between. In the relationship between investors and banks. But if we support this law, if it becomes effective, the problem will only increase, because there will be increased risks of filling up the fund to guarantee the contributions of individuals. That's why this fund can't be touched in the way that it's proposed in the promised law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u8	Valerius Pisarenko, faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Please, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u9	Good afternoon! Dear reporter, my question is also in a more global process, and I would like to ask you. Look, this ideology that the President is teaching today is actually blocking the activities of the Supreme Council, the Cabinet of Ministers, which are not meant to increase people's earnings there, but are aimed at spending Euro-2012 in Ukraine. Here's a question. Is the President investing in this ideology the goal of disrupting the Euro-2012 event, or is it just a presidential campaign that just makes it possible for the President to see that the success of the Euro-2012 campaign in Ukraine and his organization may somehow displease him in his election campaign? So really uncertainly in support of my colleague Zarubinsky, I can say that the President is responsible for the National Bank himself, and he is responsible, including for those contributions that are not being paid to all investors today, including in the UK Bank, that block Parliament meetings today. But in general, whether the President wants to.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u10	The question is understandable. Thank you. I would like to stress once again that the President of Ukraine has done everything possible to get Ukraine to win this championship. He's doing everything he can to keep the championship from being taken away in Ukraine. The question is how we prepare for it and what we sacrifice in using a particular mechanism of preparation. As I said in my speech, the president presided over meetings that have developed other funding mechanisms that really need to be financed, and we do not have enough money. And let's say that the lion's stadium is already funded by these mechanisms, not by what the Supreme Council suggests today. What happens if this law becomes effective, we saw it this morning, when one faction at the Conciliation Council reported that the government has passed a decree, the text of which is not handed down to the members of the Supreme Council, which is not for printing, where it has divided these 10 billion without any parliamentary or public control over objects, not all of which are related to the Euro-2012 Championship. And that's why we're afraid that the mechanism of this control will not continue. And there may be a different decision instead of a different one about the opaque distribution, and that's why the financing mechanisms for these infrastructure objects should be.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u11	Hanna Mikolayevna Herman, faction of the Party of Regions, please, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u12	Honorable colleagues, Ukraine, have been suffering for more than a month and a year from the fact that members and leaders of one coalition cannot agree with each other on matters that are very important to the nation’s prospects. Because of your disagreement with the President and Prime Minister, we may lose Euro-2012. We'll give you another break if you want. Let's define the Yulia Timoshenko Block and the government, so there's no corrupt dark schemes from the Euro distribution. And let the President think about what he will do to help the Prime Minister, not to put a footstool. And let's get together again and yet this law will somehow give that money for the Euro-2012 celebration. Because the world is tired of you, the people are tired of you, of your quarrels, of your disagreements, and of the fact that you cannot find one position with the most important.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u13	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u14	The president's not just returning the laws, he's returning them in this case with specific proposals. That's why he's holding meetings with all the interested parties to produce mechanisms that make corruption impossible and efficient use of funds. And as to who's currently in the coalition, who's not in the coalition, just today's vote, the agenda shows what two large factions of de facto have formed a coalition, and they all agree with each other.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u15	Vladimir Alexandrovich Yavorowski, faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u16	Vladimir Yavorowski, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. Dear reporter! Well, for me, I think for every Ukrainian, the very fact that when the head of state vetoes, he forbids even an attempt by parliament to solve a colossal problem -- to be held in our state Euro-2012, well, I have a feeling, well, some sort of illness in dealing with this problem. But you made an e-mail for the Ukrainian community today saying it would be an inflation swing, and it's all going to go up and down and down. I mean, the next one is your scarecrows. But we all know what money is, real money, muddy money, not Popandopolo's money, which has always stayed in the National Bank. This is the profit of the National Bank. This year, in view of this situation, Parliament decided to withdraw this money from the National Bank. That's why I have questions for you. I respect you as the head of the electorate and all that, but what happened today is that you're actually disinforming Ukrainian society? Instead of giving this law a move, we're here.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u17	In my speech, I speak only the truth, and others misinformation society. If Nazbank is expected to pay more than 700 million dollars, it cannot pay 10 billion. You can have a law that he can give 100 billion, he can only print it. So let us live on our incomes and not share the skin of unkilled bears, not share the income that is unlikely to arise under such difficult conditions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u18	Jaroslav Suhi, please give me one last question.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u19	I am developing a question asked by a respected colleague named Hanna Mikolayevna Herman. You said that the President, his remarks to the Supreme Council, contained some specific proposals. You understand perfectly that there is no proposal here. One suggestion is that in the last sentence, I propose that the law that came upon the signature be rejected. The motivation is that the implementation of the Euro-2012 does not correspond to the commitments of Ukraine, as set out in the memorandum of economic financial policy with IMF, the World Bank under the "Programme Loans and Financial Rehabilitation" System Project, and so on. Would you please tell us what Ukrainian President Viktor Andrievich Yushchenko is proposing? Euro-2012 transfer from Ukraine somewhere else? What does he suggest, besides rejecting the law?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u20	Dear Jaroslav Petrovich! I've just told you for eight minutes what the President is proposing, if the Supreme Council allows me to do it, I can do it again the second time. And I've already told you that these funding schemes work on objects like the Lviv Stadium.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u21	Dear colleagues! Your questions are answered and your questions are answered. Thank you, Igor Vladimirovich. From the committee is the deputy head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Oleg Valeriovich Ljashko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u22	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! The Committee on Budget Issues at its meeting today considered the proposals by the President of Ukraine to the Act amending the laws of Ukraine on State Budget 2009 and some other laws under registration number 4735-1. First of all, we want to remind ourselves of the purpose and purpose of adopting this law by the Supreme Council. The bill was designed and adopted for the immediate financial provision of investment and infrastructure projects related to the preparation and implementation in Ukraine of the final part of the 2012 European Championship of Football, Construction, Reconstruction and Development, and the maintenance of the road network and the completion of the construction of metropolises in the cities of Dnipropetrovsk, Donetsk, Kiev, and Kharkiv. To this end, it is envisaged to increase by 9.8 billion dollars the revenue from over-expenditures over the National Bank's spending on advances and payments in 2009. The source is not the National Bank’s emission costs but its actual income, which should be included in the State Budget. Yes, from October 2008 to August 2009, the National Bank granted commercial banks loans to maintain their liquidity of about 63 billion dollars at a rate of 12-18 percent. At the same time, the National Bank's account rate is quite high -- 10.25 percent compared to the countries of Europe, where it is 1-2 percent and the United States, where it is from zero to 0.25 percent. At the same time, the Ministry of Finance pays Nitzbank interest quarterly on domestic government loans, with a interest rate of between 17 and 20 percent. In particular, in the first half of 2009, such payments amounted to one and a half billion dollars. In addition, the National Bank’s income is to be included not once in the national budget, but gradually in the quarterly budget. This is also in line with the Income Taxation Act, which states that operators collect and pay income taxes quarterly in the current year, as a result of their activities, which ensures a balanced implementation of the income and expenditure budget. There is also a standard for reporting to the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers on the implementation of the National Bank’s income and expenditure. And this shows, not the dependence of Nazbank on Parliament or government, but the openness and availability of information on the activities of the central bank of the State. Article 34 should be noted. It is also stipulated that the list of items, actions, and actions of the main public budget administrators and the amount of funds to be channelled within the relevant budget programme are approved by the Cabinet of Ministers, in agreement with the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget and Finance and Banking. This rule will allow proper parliamentary control of the further distribution and use of budgetary resources under the approved budget programme. Despite the importance of the Act adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to ensure timely preparation and conduct of the final part of the 2012 European Championship in Ukraine, the President of Ukraine returned it with a proposal to reject it. At the same time, while not agreeing with a defined source of funding, the Head of State did not offer any other source to address this very urgent and important issue for the country. Taking into account the above-mentioned Committee on Budget Affairs unanimously, I stress the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine once again to enact the Act amending the Ukrainian State Budget for 2009 and some other laws of Ukraine as a whole, to overcome the veto of the President of Ukraine. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u23	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the report is closed. Is there a question for the reporter?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u24	None.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u25	Please sign up. Well, I see you're with a colleague of Arjevetin's. Then we have to. National MP Arjevetin, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u26	My dear reporter, I would like to remind you that the excess of revenue over expenditure is not the National Bank's deputy, not the Cabinet of Ministers, not the budget committee, but the National Bank's Council. Please tell me, have you received any conclusions from this competent authority on what will be the income of the National Bank this year? That's the first question. And the second. Tell me, please, what are we going to tell people when this bill deletes the standard that we actually guaranteed 150 dollars of a single deposit in any troubled bank?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u27	An honourable colleague, with regard to the exclusion of the annual allocation of the Fund's funds to guarantee the investments of natural persons, the capitalisation of banks and the state-owned mortgage facility of part of the costs of excess income over the costs of the National Bank, should be noted. To date, the Fund's contribution guarantee costs amount to about 5 billion dollars, including 2 billion dollars, have been recalculated from the State Budget over the period 2008-2009. In addition, according to article 21 of the Law on the Fund for the Guarantee of Investments of Persons, credits from the National Bank are one of the sources of fund formation. So if the fund's financial capacity is exhausted, it can go to Nazbank for further credit. In addition, the State Budget Act, as provided for in the past and the current years, may establish appropriate budgetary allocations to supplement the Fund’s contribution guarantee. Thank you. It's about the projected income. We didn't get any information from the body you specified, but we can predict it, and as I said this year, the National Bank gave 63 billion dollars of refinancing.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u28	Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u29	Oleg Zarubinsky, Block of Lithuania. Dear Oleg Valeriovich, I have two questions. First. You can see that the most pressing issue that's being discussed is the issue of the mechanism of control over this money. I'd like you to make it clear, but in strict terms, what is this mechanism, how is it going to apply? And the second question is very specific. Please tell us that implementation of this law will provide new jobs in Ukraine, will it not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u30	Dear Oleg Alexandrovich, thank you for asking. First of all, of course, it's clear that putting money into the economy, quite significant, will allow additional jobs to be created, and especially dozens if not hundreds of Ukrainians are able to get wages and work in businesses. Today, these companies stop. And thanks to the Supreme Council, through the government, we invest money in the economy and revive businesses. It's about control. As I said, article 34. The 1 law that we are currently considering, and which I hope will be overcome by the President's veto, is determined that the list of objects, actions, major funds and amounts of funds to be channelled within the relevant budget programme are approved by the Cabinet of Ministers, in agreement with the two Committees of the Supreme Council: on budgetary and financial and banking issues. Each of these committees is represented by authoritative and distinguished national deputies from various political powers. And believe me, you know that there's no way in the Mouse Committee if someone's planning an affair. That's why I don't think so.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u31	Valerius Pisarenko, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u32	Dear Oleg Valeriyovich, I'd like to be heard by TV, radio and they're all asking one question, what's there, in that law of that. What's around him and the next session, and the President vetoes? I would like to make it clear to everyone that the Supreme Council is deciding to send the National Bank's profits to support the Euro-2012 event in Ukraine. And that the President, who is now fully in control of the National Bank, is promising and blocking the transfer of money from the National Bank to the Euro-2012 event. I take the logic of your speech and I wanted to ask you, maybe as a deputy head of the budget committee, please tell me, by looking at and analyzing the President's veto, is the President really protecting the National Bank today and the positions that are in this law or is it blocking the Euro-2012 holding in this country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u33	Dear Mr. Valeria, I am authorized to report the decision of the committee. There are no political evaluations in the committee’s decision. But if you're interested in my personal opinion as a national MP, I have the same impression that the President's veto is more politically motivated than economically justified. Because there's actually an opportunity at the National Bank to provide these funds. What is the aim of those who recommended to the President to veto, or the goal of overthrowing this action, which is very important to the image of Ukraine or something else, I don't know about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u34	Andrew Shevchenko, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u35	We heard a statement by a representative of the President in Parliament. I also felt that it was such a fairly free piece on how to hang all the dogs on the government of Timoshenko. I have a professional question for you. In those proposals that the President has sent to the Supreme Council, whether in some informal way other proposals have been made, you have found some alternative ways to find this money to make the Euro-2012 in Ukraine go away, is there any other, better, alternative way to make it happen?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u36	Thank you for asking. As has already been pointed out, by applying the veto to the Supreme Council's adoption of the law, the head of state has not proposed any other source to address this urgent issue. I mean, I'd like to say no and that's it. Instead of constructive suggestions that would allow this issue to be resolved, simply a suggestion is rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u37	Thank you. Time's up. Dear colleagues, the review of the law with the comments of the President of Ukraine has been completed. Dear colleagues, it's me. Just a minute. Given that this is an extremely complex issue, which, apart from the political burden, judging from the speeches and discussions, I now have two factions to address: the factions of the Party of the Regions and the “Blank of the Yulia Timoshenko”, which, in accordance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, require us to announce the suspension and convening of the Conciliation Council before the question that we have just considered is put to the vote. One moment, dear fellows, please. But before we take a break, please sign up with motive and procedure, all together. Please sign up, five minutes. As long as the record goes down, your honorary colleagues, to say that regardless of whether there will be no agreement, we will have to conclude the question and put to a vote in such a sequence: first, the proposal by the President of Ukraine, if it is not supported, then the next one will be to vote on the proposal of a profile committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u38	I understand, but the Conciliation Council made that decision, I understand. Enrolled, Your Honor? Pavlov Kostenko, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u39	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Indeed, the law that we are considering today and by which an extraordinary session is convened today requires not only a political decision but also an economic one. Because today we have the conclusions of UEFA experts who announced yesterday that Ukraine has very little chance of holding the Euro. Therefore, today's adopted law, if the President's veto is passed and we adopt this law unanimously in the Hall, will allow not only to be held in cities and in the cities of “Euro”, which are now foreseen by the UEFA conclusions, but will also allow the social tension to be lifted in those cities where “Euro” will pass. So I urge everyone today, regardless of how the break will resolve this issue, to vote in favour of this law and the majority of the votes to determine that Ukraine needs this law and to hold this forum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u40	Anna Mikolayevna Herman, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u41	Please pass on the word of Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u42	Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u43	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, the faction of the Party of the Regions would like to do everything possible to ensure that Euro-2012 is in our country. That is why we are so actively involved in drafting this bill and our faction colleague, Boris Viktorović Kolesnikov, has been the initiator of this law. But we would like this law to be passed so that everyone understands that the funds to be allocated will be allocated in a fair and transparent manner. It seems to us that work is being consolidated today and this can be done. And I would like to support our request for a recess, which Vladimir Mikhailovich has sounded because it is necessary. There is now a meeting of the Government and it is still necessary, as we believe, 10-15 minutes to ensure that all inaccuracies are yet to be agreed upon and there is no doubt about the work of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u44	Yuri Klukkowski is referring the right to speak to Paul Zebrowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u45	Dear colleagues, in fact, no one denies the Euro-2012, but all the pros, but I think the form is being replaced by the essence. No one really thinks seriously about the factions that are going to vote for this bill, about the nature of money; no one obeys the National Bank; no one gets from the National Bank is actually a asset, that is, a desire to spend money. And today, these two factions, who claim to comply with the law, no one in law is going to reconcile, they are just going to clearly determine which objects and what financial flows are going to control, whether or not a faction. No more and no less. And today, there is just a stupid, cynical “deriban” of the two largest political megafractions in Parliament. And what happens to private investors in banks, what no one takes into account in the National Bank at all, is. There's a light-bulb situation. It's just cynical.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u46	Vladimir Bondarenko, faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u47	Vladimir Bondarenko, Timoshenko Yuli Block. Dear friends! Everyone in Ukraine today is well aware that the President is focusing on how to do worse for the government of Yulia Timoshenko. You remember when you called on people not to do populism, not to give money for devalued citizens’ contributions, and now the demand to strengthen social assistance. For example, a professional army. It has been announced that we are going to a professional army, and here the President declares two appeals immediately, in fact, by his decree not by order of the Minister of Defense. If we follow today's analogy, they say: conduct the Euro quality, this is the authority of Ukraine. And at the same time, let's not give money to then criticize, break Timoshenko's government into pieces because there was no money. That's the problem. There is already a faction of the National Bank of Ukraine in our Hall, which today, along with those who are decommissioning really huge public sums, protects this institution from being out of control and from taking part in anything. That is why we vote and accept this law!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u48	People's MP Evening's right to speak is handed over to Hanna Herman, a faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u49	Thank you, Your Honor. A party of regions once again calls on members of the government’s own coalition: stop the charges, stop the fighting. For example, we did not come here to fight. We have come to resolve this very important issue for the country. And let's take a break now, let's all get together, let's make a clear plan for using the funds, and we're not going to use the Euro-2012 funds to rebuild the Ukrainian people's free competition museum, because football museums don't play. Let's make a clear distribution and use the funds, get together after the break, vote and do everything we can to keep the world from laughing at us. A party of regions has not been used simply to going to Parliament. We call for constructive cooperation.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u50	Jojik is handing over the right to speak to John the Rabbit. Please make your last speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u51	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. Dear National Deputies! I want to be firm in agreeing that the President's proposals are politically motivated, because it's politics that's all over the place. Why? There's no money in the National Bank. So there are two options for events: either the Euro-2012 program is going to fail, and I think there's also these ideas of our megablocks, or the National Bank needs to turn on the machine and trigger the issue. There is no third option under this bill. Therefore, the President politically motivated his proposals, he showed that the bill contradicted the Constitution, the bill contradicted the interests of Ukraine, the bill could lead to great inflation, the big issue and the nation would suffer. That is why I would not want people politically responsible to vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u52	Dear colleagues! Question completed, please! Now we're going to have a 30-minute break, and I would like to ask my honourable colleagues to be aware that, regardless of that achievement or the lack of agreement, we are obliged to deal with the issue today. It will be put to a vote in such a sequence. First. President of Ukraine's proposal to reject this law. In the event of his failure to vote, there will be a second proposal, or committee, to overcome the veto on this law. If the decision is a positive one, then it will be proposed that, honourable colleagues, adopt a draft decision that provides for clear control over the spending that will be allocated by the government in accordance with the Law on Preparation for the Championship. At the same time, there will be a proposal that we now agree to return the paragraph that was in the previous draft, which we discussed at the Conciliation Council meeting, to the content of: the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on a weekly basis from the date of entry into force of the Ukraine Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2009 and some other Ukrainian laws, from 21 August 2009 issue 1608-6 to introduce the Cabinet of Ministers Order of 22 February 2008 number 107 “For the Approval of the State Target Programme for the Preparation and Implementation of the Final Part of the European Championship of 2012 with Football” with the following changes in accordance with article 34. 1 The Ukrainian State Budget 2009 Act. So during the break, I would also like to discuss the matter. Is there no objection? An interval of up to 15 hours is announced. I would like to ask the distinguished national MPs to be all in the session room immediately after a recess to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u53	Dear colleagues, invite the national deputies to the session room so that we can make practical decisions. Huh? We have to make an offer like that. Dear colleagues! A 30 - minute break was announced for the two factions. Before the Supreme Council of Ukraine comes to a practical decision, I ask you to inform Alexander Vladimirovich Lavrinović on the outcome of the consultation during the break.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u54	Dear colleagues! You have learned that the biggest problem with the adoption of the decision was the normative provision of targeted and transparent use of the funds that the State Budget directs for the organisation of the measures that are necessary for Ukraine to be able to hold the 2012 European Football Championship. As a major issue arose under the decision adopted by the Cabinet of Ministers on 22 July on the purpose of the use of funds, an extraordinary meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers approved Decree No. 889 “On clarifying the tasks and actions of the State Target Programme for the preparation and implementation of the final part of the European Football Championship in Ukraine”. The Cabinet of Ministers decides: The Ministry of Economics, together with other central and local executives, performers of the tasks and actions of the State Target Programme for the preparation and implementation of the final part of the 2012 European Championship in Ukraine, will immediately review them from football, taking into account the need for unconditional compliance with the requirements and recommendations of the Association of European Football Associations, UEFA, and submit a draft decision on 26 August of this year on the approval of the specific tasks and actions of the programme, agreed with the Committees of the Supreme Council on Budget and Finance and Banking. And the second. Admitting that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine issued its decree of July 22, 2009, No. 793. So I want to tell you that we are. the issues that have been addressed to ensure the targeted, transparent use of funds for the final part of the European Football Championship, we now have a decision by the government that allows us today to adopt a decision on the law that is being considered. I ask the Ukrainian National Deputies to support the veto overcoming the rule of law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u55	Okay. Now, Ivan Grigorovitch Kirilenko, please, the position of your faction during the break that was defined.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u56	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. I want to pay attention to the following things. Dear colleagues, cancelling the decision does not mean cancelling the program. This means that changes to the program will be made immediately in connection with the adoption of the law, adjustments will be made objectively and in terms of funding, and the program will be reviewed and reconfirmed at the next government meeting in accordance with the law that we are adopting today. That's what I'm saying for the media, I'm telling the UEFA monitoring committee that the Euro-2012 training program is and will work, but it will be very specific in relation to the adoption of the law. And the second. Volodymyr Mihajlovich, in the resolution that we will also support in the first paragraph, we ask, not “to pay attention to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine”, but the “Office of Ministers of Ukraine to ensure targeted use”, because there is no law, there is no distribution, and we are paying attention, i.e. we are already punishing. “The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to ensure targeted use.” And we're going to support, and we're going to cancel the veto, we're going to break the veto, and we're going to support the settlement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u57	Dear colleagues, I ask you to pay attention now.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u58	Yeah, yeah, yeah. Please consider now the announcement of the order and procedure for voting. Since the President of Ukraine has applied the veto to this law and proposes to reject this law, I put to the vote the first sentence of the President of Ukraine, namely: the rejection of the Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for 2009 and some other laws of Ukraine. [[Registration number 4735-1]] Ladies and gentlemen, please identify yourself. [[15:21:18]] For the five of us. Five, versus nine, held up to three.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u59	391 national deputies did not vote. In factions, please, the Party of the Regions is 0, Timoshenko's Yulia Block is 1, Our People's Self-Defense is 4, the Communist faction, the Lithuanian Block, the non-fractional did not vote. Ladies and gentlemen, the committee has put forward a motion to reject the President's remarks, namely, to overcome the President's veto on this bill. I am voting on the proposal of the President of Ukraine's veto committee for the Ukraine Act on Amendments to Ukraine's 2009 State Budget Act and some other Ukrainian laws. Here comes the vote. [[15:22:22]] For 384 Decision taken. The President's veto is overtaken by this law. The factions, please. Region Party - 166, Timoshenko Yulia Block - 152, Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense - 20, Communist faction - 27, Litvina Block - 19, non-fractional - 0. And now, dear colleagues, the Supreme Council of Ukraine's draft decree, which is given to you. We discussed it at the Conciliation Council meeting and the proposal was to support it. [[Registration number 4735-p]] It's about ensuring parliamentary control, and control by the Court of Auditors over the targeted, open-ended, transparent use of funds, taking into account Ivan Grigorovitch's offer that we don't accuse the Cabinet of Ministers of unearmarked use of funds. In particular, the second paragraph reads: “The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to ensure the targeted use of funds”. I'm voting on the draft ruling as a basis. Please vote. Based on the base. [[15:23:43]] For 382 Decision taken. No comments, no objections to voting on the adoption of the draft as a whole as a decision? You don't? I bet. Take it off the vote. Please, Anatoly Gritsenko. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u60	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I want to remind you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, when I first passed this law, you said that this is a dumpster, it's the biggest factions that distribute money. I want to remind you of the second one, you might have made a mistake. Let me remind you of another. When there was a previous introductory meeting, you said: “There is no way to bring the day’s documents into order, which are prohibited by the Constitution, which were not initiated by the authors of the summons. That's what you've been underlining on live television. I ask you to withdraw this ruling as one that will question the legitimacy of today's session. It's going to be the weight of a consistent position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u61	I'll take your warning, but I'll draw your attention, Your Honor, before you talk about consistency, to read the Rules. It's a consideration of one question, and it's coming up, I want to tell you again, in the section of one question, we don't rule it out separately. The Supreme Council of Ukraine, in connection with the veto overtaken the law, and in view of the fact that there are many complaints that money may not be used in a transparent way, and the amount is almost 10 billion, it makes a decision in this law, it does not take a separate question, which is in the face of the issue. Is there any other objection to the content? I'm putting to the vote a motion for a decision in general. [[Registration number 4735-P]] And what's more, dear fellows, it's going to develop the ones you reminded me of to have control. If the Supreme Council has overcame the veto to have control. Voting, please. [[15:25:55]] For 385 For 383, the decision is made. Five, I'm sorry, for the 385, the decision's been made. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts on Elections of the President of Ukraine, with proposals by the President of Ukraine since 18.08.2009, has been announced for consideration. [[Registration number 4741]] The rapporteur is the deputy head of the Ukrainian Presidential Secretariat, Stavniychuk Marina Ivanovna, co-rapporteur, head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Governmental Affairs, Upper Sergey Petrovich. Please, Marina Ivanovna. The rule provides for 10 minutes. Is that enough for you?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u62	Well, actually, there's a lot of notes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u63	Let's do the report. If there's a need.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u64	I realize I'm not going to be teaching the whole thing. All the President's proposals, but the main positions I'd like you to give us a chance.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u65	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u66	Thank you. The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine and present at the meeting! The Ukrainian Supreme Council adopted on 24 July 2009 the Ukrainian Act “On amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts concerning the election of the President of Ukraine cannot be signed by the Head of State, since a number of its provisions do not correspond to the Constitution of Ukraine, their implementation will lead to violations of the constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens, including the right to choose and be elected, the right to freedom of press, the right to judicial protection. The President has to note that the law that has come to the signature does not create an effective mechanism and a coherent system of procedural safeguards for the organization of elections that would meet the universal principles of electoral law, European standards; does not ensure the implementation of fundamental principles of electoral law and does not provide adequate conditions for objective, impartial monitoring of the elections, as a result of which he will not be able to ensure the conduct of transparent democratic elections by the President of Ukraine and to establish and consolidate the real will of Ukrainian citizens. At the same time, the Head of State shares the need to improve the current Ukrainian Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine and supports individual parliamentary proposals to improve the legislative regulation of the election of the President of Ukraine, particularly in the short term of the electoral campaign. While the practical experience of national elections, including the election of the Head of State, has led to the need for a conceptual renewal of the Ukrainian institution, taking into account the time limit before the start of the electoral campaign, the President of Ukraine has acknowledged that it is possible not to reject the law adopted by Parliament as a whole, but to limit itself to the most urgent comments under these conditions to the law that came upon the signature and the corresponding specific proposals for improving its text. In doing so, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in view of the time constraints, the head of state has taken on the necessity. take into account the need to preserve the integrity of the key provisions of the law and the unity of the mechanisms of legal regulation. Thus, the President of Ukraine's comments and specific proposals for the text of a law adopted by the Supreme Council aimed at bringing the adopted law into line with the Constitution of Ukraine and the constitutional Court's legal positions, taking into account international standards in the field of elections, including the European recommendations adopted as a result of the international monitoring of the electoral processes that have taken place in our country, and aimed at eliminating the disagreements that have taken place in many of the provisions of the law. I would like to point out that the country's distinguished national deputies are, in fact, all the positions outlined in the remarks made by the President of Ukraine, supported by the Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This indicates that these remarks by the President of Ukraine are indeed constructive and legal. The imperfections of the Ukrainian President's signature are obvious to the people's deputies, as Parliament is already well aware that it is preparing to amend the law that is now being considered in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thus, the law that came to be signed does not provide for citizens of Ukraine who are law - abiding. predicts that citizens who have crossed the border and are not in the Consular Account are deprived of constitutional right to vote in the election of the President of Ukraine, which is millions of citizens, our fellow countrymen. I would like to ask Parliament to note that any restrictions on the constitutional right to vote and the right to participate in the administration of state affairs other than those in the Constitution of Ukraine today and those restrictions that may be linked to the residence or non-consolidation of citizens, the Constitution does not provide for. Thus, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! The introduction by law of an additional restriction on the constitutional right of citizens to vote in the elections of the President of Ukraine relating to the Consularization of Citizens is nothing more than a violation of the Constitution of Ukraine. Moreover, these positions are contrary to generally accepted international standards of electoral law. The law contains a number of inconsistencies and imperfections regarding the timing of procedures that should be eliminated during the electoral process. I would like to point out that the practice of the early start of the electoral process has justified itself, and I would like to separate the announcements from the start of the electoral process. In this regard, the President requests that the law be clarified. In addition, a new law has created a mechanism that provides that district election committees can be formed 10 days after the deadline set for the introduction of district election committees and the district committees accordingly. District Election Commissions. Then, at the time of submission to the District Election Commissions, the application for the establishment of the constituencies themselves, the District Electoral Commissions themselves will not yet be created in accordance with the law, which thus provides for a situation where the law introduces in advance a legal mechanism that cannot actually be implemented, which puts, in turn, the question of legality, legitimacy in the organization of elections. Special concerns are raised by the observation, the regulation of the law on the order of formation, and the organization of the work of the district election committees and district election committees. In particular, it is envisaged to complete the submission, or it is proposed to complete the submission with what kind of application. concerning the submission of submissions to district and district election committees in the order envisaged. concerning the certification of the signature of the person who is submitted by the order provided for. established in law by order. Today, the imperfections of the law can lead to an obvious abuse that will result in a number of lists of candidates to whom a suitable candidate in the election may not be involved at all. In this regard, the President of Ukraine also calls attention to this to complement the law. The harsh criticism of the first-reading provisions of the law on the fractional principle of the formation of electoral commissions has forced Parliament, you, honourable national deputies, to take due account of the relevant observations, granting the exclusive right to apply for election boards to candidates for the post of President of Ukraine. However, the law leaves other restrictions on the rights of candidates to voter boards. In particular, the law provides for territorial restrictions on membership. related to membership in election committees during elections. In particular, local and district constituencies may include only electors who live within the respective district or city in which the district is located. Such a restriction makes it very difficult to ensure the representation of those or other candidates for the post of President of Ukraine, both in the district and in the constituencies, and distorts the principles of free choice by candidates in the election committees, does not ensure a balanced representation of candidates for the office of President in the respective electoral commissions. And, of course, the President of Ukraine proposes to establish a standard in law for all Ukrainian citizens regardless of their place of residence in Ukraine, the possibility of being part of election committees during the election of the President of Ukraine. The Act does not modify the prohibition of the inclusion in a divisional electoral commission of a special constituency which is established at a hospital or in a detention facility, or in investigators, employees of appropriate establishments and institutions. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! In Ukraine, he has long justified the experience and practice of including special district electoral committees in special constituencies, especially in the execution of sentences, hospital candidatures for submitting candidates to the Ukrainian Presidents who do not work in these institutions. Thus, practically, the law itself creates conditions for impact on voting results, abuse and forging elections. During the last parliamentary campaigns, legislation introduced another mechanism that allows normal elections to be formed by electoral commissions. I would like to pay attention, too, to the fact that the law provides for the creation of small ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u67	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u68	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I ask you to give me a few more minutes because there is a need for a lecture.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u69	Please, I can't see the problem. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u70	The law provides for the formation of small, medium - sized and large electoral districts. First of all, the law increases the threshold for the formation of constituencies. According to established practice in Ukraine, this was 2.5 thousand in all elections, where it is possible to organize normally the work of the electoral commission, where voters are allowed to vote. The law has increased to 3,000, this is the basis of the voter registration mechanism on voter voting day, this is the basis for further falsifications of election results. The law should not allow and create those mechanisms that are the basis for abuses and forgeries as a result of voting. The same law provides for doing so. It should be said that the division of areas in the middle, small, large did not find its further finding throughout the text and mechanisms provided for in the Presidential Election Act. In this regard, candidates for the office of President of Ukraine, who run for office in the electoral boards of small, large, medium, lose their right to an equal quota in the leadership of the electoral commissions. Obviously, those who proposed this in the law, who today are going to overcome the veto of the President of Ukraine, understand clearly that such equal access for candidates to leadership positions in the district election committees does not need to be introduced. Because it favors those who are going to fake election results using these mechanisms for their own benefit. There are also no changes to the law that provide for the decision - making of electoral committees. Today, the electoral commission’s power mechanism is greatly weakened, as well as the weakened decision-making mechanism for electoral committees. This is not a justified mechanism that has never been used before in elections, including the President of Ukraine. Practically today, a majority of the votes from those present are to be taken by decision, and at a meeting of the committee there is to be a majority of the composition of the committees at a time when the powers, the collegiality of the work of the electoral commissions are to be ensured that at least two thirds are present at the election boards. And of course, the simplified mechanism of depriving the boards of election leaders cannot fail to do so. Practically for most of the members of the committees and most of those present, at any time, may be relieved of office or recommend to the higher commission that the head, the secretary, the deputy. These are serious things that are the basis for future forgeries. What is more, the decision of the commission today by a majority vote from the audience will be to decide not to be able to participate in the election committees for observers, candidates for the presidency of Ukraine, trusted persons and so on. Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, there are several factions in the Chamber who seriously claim to be the future President of Ukraine, and you, as no one, should be interested in the legislative basis for the holding of open transparent, legal elections in Ukraine for the legitimacy of the results of the elections, what is written today in this law, and especially in the institution of complaint, the results of the elections and in general the institution of complaint during the electoral process of those violations that are taking place or may occur, it is unacceptable at all, just think! During the vote, the election results of the Central Electoral Commission are prohibited from filing complaints. That is, the Central Election Commission, as the body that guarantees the exercise of electoral rights does not have the right, should leave without consideration the appeal, the citizens' complaint. What is this?? You've forgotten about 2004, tell me, National MPs!? The country’s distinguished national deputies are also provided for by law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u71	Please finish Marina Ivanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u72	And the shortening of the terms of the complaint and the shortening of the terms of consideration of the violations that take place during the electoral process. The Institute has already established its practice in Ukraine, has established the practice of the Institute of Complaints and the Institute of Complaints, Violations during the electoral process. Unjustified is during the electoral process of shortening all complaint periods from 5 to 2 days. Moreover, it is unacceptable to rule that if a court does not consider a violation within a two - day period, complaints remain uncontested. This is also unacceptable in terms of proper, effective judicial control and judicial protection of the rights of Ukrainian citizens. It draws attention to itself and to the circumstances that the amendments to the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Judiciality introduce a dual mechanism, the possibility of a double examination of complaints and violations during the electoral process. This is especially true of the election process. Because the changes made to articles 172, 176 and 20 of the Code of Administrative Justice in Ukraine are mutually exclusive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u73	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u74	Thus, I, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine, understand that you are not pleased and unwilling to listen to the comments made to this law. But I would like to draw your attention to the fact that electoral legislation is the kind of legislation that models the further development of social, political, general development in the state. It is the quality of electoral legislation that determines whether power in the state will be transferred in a legitimate, legal way, or whether it will lead back to the fields and so forth. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The comments of the President of Ukraine are purely constitutional, legal. They are aimed at improving, improving, and improving the electoral law. Dear National Deputies! The comments of the President of Ukraine do not spoil his systemicity and the sequence of teaching the regulations of this law. But at the same time, I would like to point out that yesterday’s meeting of the relevant committee of profile was no more than five minutes. Dear National Deputies! The comments of the President of Ukraine were in fact neither considered nor intended to do so. I'm so sorry. But at the same time, as I stand on the rostrum and represent the position of the President of Ukraine on this issue, I ask you to take a closer look at those remarks and take into account the comments and additions of the President of Ukraine to the Act adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the elections of the President of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u75	Dear colleagues, if you have any questions, please sign up for the questions. A question mark is being recorded. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? Alexander Stoyan, faction of the Party of the Regions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u76	Dear Marina Ivanovna, from the woman's point of view, I have no questions for you. You're a lovely woman, I like you, an honest word. And from the lawyer's point of view, I'd like to say that maybe you were the one who wrote the president's remarks on your own mind, on your own terms. And I want to remind you that we remember 2004, when your active participation, with your active support, created such a law when the third tour came in. And that elected president, who today, is illegal. So, don't you want to go through these notes again to be forgeries, at the third round? And I have a question: “And what did Yushchenko count on, he thinks that by changing the law he will win something?” He would have apologized to the people of Ukraine. At the same time, I ask that those lawyers who worked with you and worked on that law in 2004, which allowed Yushchenka to come to power illegally, apologize to the Ukrainian people. What has been reported only makes things worse. What our colleagues have contributed improves the situation and prevents counterfeiting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u77	Please, Marina Ivanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u78	I would like to say that the position of the President of Ukraine on the quality of electoral legislation is consistent and systematic. The President's position is that regardless of who is going to run in the President's elections and who will win them, it is aimed at making these elections legal, constitutional, open, competitive and transparent. With regard to legislation on the election of the President of Ukraine in 2004. I was working for the Central Electoral Commission at the time, and this room stopped the Central Electoral Commission for the term of office, and all the changes to the law were being done in this room, including you as the National Deputy of Ukraine. I would like to remind you that the law was voted 410 votes. This means that the hall voted in a consolidated manner. And all of your claims about 2004, I'm rejecting, today with my own experience. Because I'm going to tell you that in 2004, I survived and came to conclusions probably a lot bigger than those in this room. And I warn you, please work out the law so that it doesn't create grounds for possible forgeries, for abuse and then for failure to establish the results of the election. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u79	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u80	Thank you. Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear Marina Ivanovna, our faction is enough, even to say so, is very critical of the text of the law, understanding what is being done in all countries to facilitate and increase the voter's access to his electoral rights. Some positions do not provide this, including a lack of hard evidence. Let's say that in Ukraine a sufficiently serious migration process is internal and why a person who is officially assigned to a shipping document is denied the right to vote. But for the sake of absolute objectivity, I want to say that more of the President's remarks were made between the second and third rounds of elections in 2004. [[That's right.]] Obviously, the problem is not in the personnel right now, but in order to allow voters, despite being accused of forging someone, to have access to the ballot box. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u81	It's not a question, it's a statement of positions. I fully agree with you that access to voting should be ensured to all citizens, including through the compilation of voter lists and the provision of voting rights. It must be said that if Ukraine claims that a State voter register has been created today, the mechanism of the Law on the State Register of Voters and the mechanism envisaged in the Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine should be one that provides, indeed, for citizens to vote in any circumstances. But in this situation we have today, no one is trying to clarify the procedure for making lists. If we talked about the procedure for making lists, this law, by the way, does not guarantee the secrecy of the electoral registry database. Because you can see how, when appropriate copies are given to candidates for the post of President of Ukraine, there is no appropriate database protection control mechanism. And this is also a serious problem that needs to be addressed.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u82	John the Rabbit, the faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense."
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u83	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. Dear Marina Ivanovna, when you saw how this law was passed, you realized that it was a law designed to win over a political power that has a greater potential for raiding. But what I want to ask you is, the President's proposals are motivated both politically and legally. One of the weakest provisions made by the BUTT and the Party of the Regions of Amendments to the Law is the weakening of the mechanism for complaining about the results of the elections. The protocols and protocols of the District Electoral Commissions cannot be contested at all, which is contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine. But there is another thesis where two days are given for the consideration of the complaint. In such a case, the court will either follow the procedure and never enter that term, or the court simply spits on the proceedings and becomes a political mechanism. How do you appreciate this situation? Because if your complaint is not considered within two days, it will mean that she will not be charged at all. Thus, the legislator was completely deprived.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u84	Dear Ivan Alexanderovich, I fully agree with you. This law is completely null and void in court proceedings to prosecute violations during the electoral process. That judicial mechanism for the protection of electoral rights, which seems to have been introduced in this law, is aimed at only one thing: not allowing, under any circumstances, complaints to be heard, not allowing, under any circumstances, any objective consideration of those violations that may occur during the electoral process. And the fact that the law expressly prohibits that statements concerning the voting results protocols cannot be the subject of a court hearing is evidence, basically, that those who have adopted this law and who will overcome the President's veto have agreed among themselves that we are playing the fight without rules and then will win a stronger one. And that's where the dot is going to be. This has large factions in Parliament, but it can never be arranged by the people of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u85	Thank you, Marina Ivanovna. Time's up. Thank you. Now, a report from the committee. The co - report will be made by the head of the Committee’s Subcommittee on State Building and Local Self - Governmental Affairs, Upper Sergey Petrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u86	Dear National Deputies, Mr. Head, are present! Let me remind you that the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, which I have been entrusted with representing on this rostrum, according to the distribution of objects of knowledge, is principal in the preparation and preparation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's drafts in the field of electoral legislation. Thus, we are well aware of similar issues. In this context, it should be noted that the Ukrainian Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine, which has been revised since 1999, contains outdated standards, needs further improvement. During this time, the first phase of the state-law reform was carried out with the transition to the parliamentary-presidential republic. The Code of Administrative Judiciality of Ukraine has been adopted, Ukraine's Act "On the State Register of Voters, the amended Laws "On Elections of Ukrainian People's Deputies" and on Local Elections has been largely implemented by the unification of electoral legislation. The need for amendments to the Ukrainian Law “The election of the President of Ukraine was repeatedly discussed by the Ukrainian National Deputies, representatives of the Central Election Commission, the Secretary of the President of Ukraine. Practically, all the major political forces, scientific institutions, the public. In particular, it's very important, in the context of the 2009-2010 electoral campaign under the new law. In fact, the above-mentioned objective was subordinated to a bill amending certain legislative acts concerning the election of the President of Ukraine, submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine by the Ukrainian National Deputies, which are part of the various factions of Parliament and which are accepted as the basis for June 30, 2009. [[Registration number 4741]] The bill was finalized, prepared for second reading at the Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government. In doing so, it should be noted that, during the second reading by the President of Ukraine as a subject of the legislative initiative, no proposals were made to the bill. They appeared only at the signing stage of the law adopted on July 24, this year, when the President took advantage of the constitutional veto. At the request of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government considered at its meeting on 20 August 2009 the proposal of the President of Ukraine to the above-mentioned law. The committee members discussed these proposals in some detail, among which were valid, controversial or unacceptable, which in some way coincided with the position of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Expert Office. It was not possible to avoid individual calculations of a purely technical nature. In particular, the law’s paragraphs are called articles, somewhat problematic is the orderly numbering of proposals where the use of items, sub-items, paragraphs is not uniform. He points out that two paragraphs of the proposal, number 17.1, refer to the amendment to the Law on the State Register of Voters, contain various articles: 14 and 17, although the content and logic of the text are in fact to refer only to article 14. I mean, there was an unfortunate technical error in the text of the proposals, but we're all living people, and none of them are insured, especially at the rate taken to work with normative material. The main thing is not to make separate technical calculations and policy disagreements, all of which can be taken into account, corrected and worked out in the course of business constructive cooperation. The main conclusion of the committee on the results of the re-examination of the returned law was the logic of preserving the integrity of key regulations, principles, criteria laid down as the basis of the law as a whole, the unity of the mechanisms for legal regulation of relations that arise at all stages of the electoral process. The committee members pointed to the urgent need for the next election campaign under the new law. Today, by delaying its terms, literally before the start of the elections, we risk entering them with outdated rules of the current law in the 2004 edition. With regard to the shortcomings of the proposed law to which it was pointed, they can be fixed quickly and without prejudice to the application of law during September and mid-October, but in the regime of amendments to the provisions adopted, if we vote today. At the same time, the legislative initiative can come completely from the President of Ukraine. Thus, in view of all the above - mentioned circumstances, the committee concluded: recommending the Supreme Council of Ukraine in accordance with part four of article 94 of the Constitution of Ukraine, part seven of article 135 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u87	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u88	during a re-examination of the Ukrainian Act amending certain legislative acts relating to the election of the President of Ukraine to completely reject the proposal of the President of Ukraine to the law it has returned and to adopt this law in general. In addition, we consider it necessary to draw the attention of the people's deputies to a number of procedural aspects of the President's proposal. Under the general rule, in accordance with part three of article 134 of the Supreme Council’s Rules, the proposals are put to the vote in accordance with the order set out by the President of Ukraine. However, the Supreme Council of Ukraine can determine a different order of voting. In this case, this is exactly what needs to be done to ensure clarity and consistency of consideration, because there is a certain discrepancy between the procedure for making proposals by the President of Ukraine in relation to the numbering of articles of the law. In particular, the comparative table against the first paragraphs of the law contains the President's proposal under number 16, in other cases between the individual sub-items of the same proposal there are several pages or even a few dozen pages. Therefore, for the convenience of consideration and in view of the position of part three of article 134 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee considers it appropriate to vote on the proposed The President of Ukraine proposes to number the articles of the law. In order to do this, a procedural decision should be taken before the voting on the proposals begins, and after the successive individual votes have been completed on the basis of the legislative text in the comparative table, a general vote should be taken. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u89	Yes, Your Honor, is there a question for a co-conspirator? Please sign up. A question mark is being recorded. Andrey Shevchenko faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u90	I'm very sorry that the President has completely ignored the entire chapter on mass media where he really needs his attention, but the right to be asked is to hand it over to Andria Portnow.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u91	Andrew Portnov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u92	Andrew Portnow, Timoshenko Street. Dear colleagues, if I had 10 minutes of those who, according to the Rules, had a representative of the President in the Supreme Council, I would have completely refuted on each of these issues the baseless accusations that have been made to Parliament today from this high rostrum. I'd like to say. According to the Ukrainian Constitution, the President has the right to promise laws if they contradict the Constitution. And I didn't see any position in the President's veto that would contradict the Constitution of Ukraine. As for what the President of Ukraine wrote, this is simply an offer, nothing prevented the President of Ukraine from making these proposals for second reading instead of a vacation, I think that part of these proposals would be taken into account constructively by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Second position. As for the fact that the results of the elections or the results are not alleged at individual locations. I want to make it completely clear that this is an unprofessional approach for people who haven't even read this bill. I want to tell you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u93	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u94	Dear colleagues, I agree with you that the President really had a right and could have taken advantage, but he didn't. And this is not the first time. I want to say something else. If we were to delay this process today, there is no guarantee that even if we had taken the proposal into account, there would have been no new proposals by the President. Let me give you just one example, page 8, of the President's editorial. It is appropriate to revise other provisions of the law that have been signed. What else? I can only guess what the other positions are. So I think that today, and the committee thinks so, to reject those proposals, to adopt the law as a whole, and then there are really a few points that need to be corrected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u95	Demyanenko refers the right to the question of Oleni Lukash, a faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! Thank you very much. It is to be noted that the President of Ukraine has not been able to make any changes to the electoral law on the election of the President of Ukraine in five years of his term of office. He was therefore very concerned about the legality of the electoral process and was fully supportive. The first was when he applied to the Constitutional Court and withdrew his decision after October for several months to continue his office. Now he's trying to destroy our law. The State Register of Voters is being destroyed with its Camarilia during the year. Nor does the President submit to a new member of the Central Electoral Commission, knowing that a member of the Central Electoral Commission has completed his term of office. And now he still promises us many judicial wars. Thus, it is not so much and not only in the bill that we have proposed that we must overcome the veto now. The point is that the President does not like the essence of the law, the election of the President of Ukraine. I really don't want to, you know.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u97	Please respond. Complete your opinion, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u98	It is no longer the wish of the President, knowing that his rating is within the limits of a two-percent statistical error, to realize that the election is coming, and that his team is going back in time. And what he's offering us today is to leave the 2004 law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u99	Thank you. Please, is there a need to answer?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u100	There are no questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u101	This is where the grades came in. Please, Pisarenko instead of Kostenko. Please have the right to ask.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, well, really, talk about the professionality of the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u103	Well, I get it, I thought Paul Kostenko. Sorry, now, well, okay, there's the Master and, uh, you'll have one minute. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u104	Dear colleagues, if I may, since the beginning of time? Dear colleagues! I'd really like to give a line to the representative of the President today. We have not seen the profession in this speech, as we have seen in the proposals that the President has made. In fact, we haven't seen any proposals on the unconstitutionality of laws. And here we have to say that the Supreme Council has worked very well on this law. And there is one point in the President's proposals. It is to leave him for another term in his post by breaking up the election and the election process. That's the only goal that the President is pursuing today. Indeed, the Supreme Council will not be able to break the electoral process. We'll beat the veto today. And you know, it's like in an anecdotic situation where you say goodbye and don't go away. And I think we need to put a dot and start today.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u105	There's no question, just evaluation points. I'm sorry, instead of Yuri Ivanovich Kostenka the question is asked by Yuri Klukkowski, the last speaker.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u106	Thank you. I'm going to spoil the eulogy of praise for this law, because I would like to say that if the Supreme Council were to work in accordance with the Constitution and the Rules, if I were to be able to tell, in accordance with the Constitution, every position of this bill, its disgraceful Ryder, anti-constitutional and anti-democracy nature. I think I'll be able to do it in another forum. Now I want to ask the head of the committee's election committee, which represents the faction that fought against counterfeiting in the fourth year. Please tell me, are you satisfied that without the will of the electorate himself or of the one who has filed a complaint, if the court has delayed the appeal for more than two days, it will leave it without consideration and thus without defence a violated right and a breach of legitimate interest? Do you think this is done to combat counterfeiting or to remove all barriers to possible counterfeiting and prevent them from setting a curtain? It's the protection of human rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u107	Frankly, I think that all of us here must hold such elections and do everything possible to make the complaint as little as possible; and not for the judicial authority to hold the election, but for the vertical of the electoral commission itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, time is up. Have a seat, please. Now let's move on to practical decision-making. The point is. Listen, your honor, I'm here for the discussion. Let's step away from the Rules now, from the procedure and move on to the discussion. Let me see what article 134, 135 deals with consideration of issues related to the law to which the President applied the veto provides for discussion. Show me and we'll talk. Please, a line. Yuri Klukkowski, a replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u109	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, the Honourable Head of the Supreme Council! Before this law, we considered overcoming the veto into another law, and you gave the floor for discussion. Please tell me why you have a double standard. Why can one law be discussed and another law not be discussed? Why was this law not included in the order of the day by initiators in the previous special session but considered, and now you are not allowing it to be added to order? Please tell me why the double standard.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u110	Dear colleagues and Yuri Bogdanovich! I'd like that. I'd like to ask, Your Honor, if you're dropping such charges, you should have. You should have a reason for that. Before the vote, the factions came from the motive and from the voting procedure. There was no discussion. And before I go to the vote, I'll also, if there's any insistence, I'll suggest we take a look. All your other accusations are completely groundless. That's why. Who's to step away from the Rules and conduct a procedure to discuss the law. Please determine by vote. If we deviate from the Rules. Please. Please vote. I'm voting on this proposal. The Supreme Council of Ukraine may decide to withdraw. Please, I put this proposal to the vote. [[16:10:00]] For-12. The decision is not taken. Now, dear colleagues, please, we will now proceed with you to consider the proposals of the President of Ukraine. If they're supported in whole or in part, then we're going to adopt the law in a new order. If the President's proposal is not supported, I will put to the vote a proposal by the committee to overcome the President's veto on this bill. Before practical consideration of the question of decision-making, please, one minute from the factions. Express your position. Please, from the BUT faction, Andrew Portnow. Now, please, from the faction of the Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u111	Thank you. Andrew Portnow, Timoshenko Street. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, I would like to support my colleague, Sergey Podgorny, who, speaking out, noted that the Supreme Council of Ukraine, according to the Rules, could establish a different order for consideration of the President's proposals. Therefore, I propose that we consider, in general, the President's proposal by one vote. Perhaps the Supreme Council of Ukraine will not waste time and by one vote it will reject all the proposals of the President of Ukraine, as proposed by the Parliamentary Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u112	From the Party of Regions? Olena Lukas? Please, the microphone. Then from "Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense," John the Rabbit will be, or who?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u113	Dear colleagues, I would like to support Andrew Portney in his proposal, because in this case we are dealing not with the veto, but with a set of legislative proposals that the President has not been able to make in five years of his office. There are almost no objections, and the proposals are highly questionable. In particular, the President is keen to see whether there are tender procedures or whether a small state has suffered from the Tender Chamber. The Ukrainians who remained on the lists here would like to vote without being on the Consular Account there. There are other issues that the Supreme Council will not support, and that is not a denial of our law. Because our law didn't touch it, it was his fantasies about how he would like the elections to be held. So we're not dealing with the veto, we're dealing with 30 sheets of paper with the President's legislative proposals and we need to vote them down by one vote, because it's not a procedural document and you've seen it and you know it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u114	Yeah, from "Our Ukraine" is Ivan Hare, right? Please. Then.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u115	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. I want to say to the previous speakers that the President's proposals are very much motivated. And we can't deprive the people's deputies of their right to vote for each of the President's proposals. Because there's no ad-hock, just ad-hock only works in one particular part. You do not even refer to specific articles of the Supreme Council Rules that would allow us to refuse to consider the President's proposals and vote in general. As for the proposals, the President wants to protect citizens' rights to charge with the results of the elections, the President of Ukraine wants to protect citizens' rights to vote. The winner was appointed as the electorate, not the one who voted him in these committees. The rights of citizens will be protected only when the President's amendments are adopted. Otherwise, it's just a law that deprives citizens of their right to be.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u116	Please, the faction. Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko. Then Oleg Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u117	Dear colleagues, respectable voters! Simonenko, the Communist faction. This draft law is a pitiful attempt to provide society with almost some steps to prevent the falsification of elections. In fact, other mechanisms have been put in place instead of some mechanisms in the State's electoral counterfeiting system. That's a first. Secondly, if we are talking about the protection or insecurity of the rights of our constituents, I would like to draw attention to what is cynical about this for one simple reason: the draft law provides for the holding of the election of the President without having a voter register. Therefore, voters do not need those who are meeting today instead, I repeat, from some mechanisms to falsify elections to introduce others. And the third, usually, is the end of the election, and there's a lot of counterfeiting noise. In fact, this conversation is necessary only to distract attention from the fact that the two greatest political forces.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u118	Thank you. Oleg Zzarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u119	Oleg Zarubinsky, Block of Lithuania. Without political and mutual political charges, everyone is sick of it. Two specific positions, and they can be answered. The first position, article 28, is taken by a majority of the votes, not by the number of the commission, as in the law in force, but by the number of those present. So the main task, obviously, is for those who will be on the scene, to exert administrative pressure on those who have local authority, to reduce the number of members present on the board, as it were, untrustworthy on the day of the vote. And second position, article 24. The position of the current law that can be used as part of a divisional electoral commission is limited to the electorate who resides in the territory. The direct contradiction to the Constitution is article 24, which prohibits restrictions on Ukrainian citizens, in this case at their place of residence. The same conclusion — local authorities doing administrative work will do everything very much in a limited circle. Here's your conclusion.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u120	Dear colleagues! Let's take a look at the comments of the President of Ukraine. I ask you, my fellow Members, to point out that the President of Ukraine, when he formulated his proposals, he went through problems, and when the committee considered these remarks by the President of Ukraine, he followed the text, and then we have the numbering of amendments removed, which we start with 16 amendments, that is to be able to align the President's remarks with that of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'd like to take that into account. Dear colleagues! Amendment No. 16 of the President of Ukraine, the committee proposes to reject it. At the same time, I am putting to the vote the President of Ukraine's proposal to take this amendment into account, and I ask the people's deputies to identify themselves in the voting process. [[16:17:24]] For -8 Correction not supported. Next amendment. What? Please. Please, Yuri Klukkowski, what is your offer?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u121	Dear colleagues! Here are actually two amendments, and we voted them I don't know which, please note the second part of this amendment, which proposes to complete the chapter with the first amendment to the 112 article of the Criminal Procedure Code, which determines the subordination of such cases. For the introduction of the corresponding article, not the provision of the corresponding standard in the CPC, means that there is no such responsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u122	Dear colleagues! When I put the amendment to the vote, I assumed that the amendment was before the deputies, where article 1 of chapter 1 of the first law was to be deleted, and therefore the amendments were to be made, and the MPs were to be identified in the voting process. Yuri Bogdanovich, you see that there is political will, so any approach not to be proposed will not be accepted. I'm going according to the Rules. Dear colleagues, I would ask you not to drop these ghastly accusations. Now article, amendment number 15. You don't need to read it, it's right in front of you. The committee proposes to reject it. At the same time, I am voting in favour of Amendment 15 of the President of Ukraine. [[16:19:16]] For-13. Correction not supported. Now the 10th Amendment of the President of Ukraine. I would like to vote in favour of this amendment. [[16:19:42]] For-12. Correction not accepted. Dear colleagues! Now Amendment 14 is made up of three parts. I'm going to put all these parts separately on the vote. Amendment 14 to Part One. I would like to vote in favour of this amendment. [[16:20:16]] For-9 Correction not accepted. What is it? Now for your consideration, your esteemed colleagues, amendment number 14, this second amendment is already coming, you see it in front of you on page three. I vote in favour of this amendment. [[16:21:05]] For -8 Not supported. Amendment 14 on page 3 and page 4. I would like to vote in favour of this amendment. [[16:21:28]] For -8 Correction not supported. Amendment 14 on page 4 at the bottom of the page. I would like to vote in favour of the President's amendment. [[16:21:53]] For -8 Correction not supported. Amendment number 10 on page 5. I would like to vote in favour of this amendment. [[16:22:17]] For -8 Not supported. Now amendment 14 on page 7 is part one. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please vote. [[16:22:39]] For -8 Not supported. Amendment 14, that's part two on page seven and going to page eight. I would like to vote in favour of this amendment. [[16:23:05]] For-9 Correction not supported. Amendment number one on page eight. I would like to vote in favour of this amendment. [[16:23:26]] For the 10th. The offer is not supported. Amendment 2.1 on page 8. I would like to vote in favour of the proposal of the President of Ukraine. [[16:23:53]] For -8 Correction not supported. Please, John the Rabbit on what, the microphone?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u123	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. Right now, the Ukrainian national deputies did not support the President's proposal, which was what it was all about. In line with that editorial that was adopted in the Supreme Council, today's announcement of election day and the launch of the mechanism, we're going to talk about the election process. The same day. But we have legislation. The law states that citizens should be familiar with election day. So there must be some information. Go ahead with the electoral process. So the President offered these ten days to let people know when the elections would begin by the time they were practically going to come true. People’s deputies do not do this for what reason? Because they don't want to inform their citizens about the election, they don't want them to think about what's happening today in the electoral process. This once again shows that national MPs do not want to improve electoral legislation today.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u124	Thank you. Dear colleagues, everyone knows what they want. So let's, well, everybody knows what they want, let's vote now. Just a minute. Amendment No. 2.2, page 9. People's deputies, please vote in favour of Amendment 2.2. [[16:25:48]] For -8 The decision is not taken. Amendment number 4. I'm sorry, you have no right. Correction, show me an article of the Rules, then I'll give you, Ivan Alexandrovich, please, you're not the President. Amendment number four, Your Honor. Its contents are set out on page 10. Well, please. Well, we, Ivan Aleksandrovitch, whatever you're saying, we've already agreed on a position here, it won't do any good, please. Let's go through the Rules. The amendment is being voted. Please. [[16:26:39]] For the Correction not supported. Now, Amendment 3.1 on page 10. I would like to vote in favour of this amendment. [[16:27:04]] For-7. Correction not supported. Now the amendment on page 12 under number 3.2. I would like to vote in favour of this amendment. [[16:27:26]] For-7. Correction not supported. Now page 13, amendment number 4. I would like to vote in favour of this amendment. [[16:27:50]] For -6 No correction supported. Amendment 3.1 on page 13. I'm betting on a vote in favour of the President of Ukraine's proposal number 3.1, 13th page. [[16:28:13]] For -6 No correction supported. Now on page 15, the 4th amendment. I would like to vote in favour of this amendment. It goes to the beginning of the next page. [[16:28:35]] For the five of us. No correction supported. Now, Amendment 3.2 on page 16. Please vote. [[16:28:57]] For -8 No correction supported. Amendment 3.3 on the same page, 16th. I would like to vote in favour of this amendment by the President of Ukraine. [[16:29:22]] For the 10th. No correction supported. Amendment 4 on pages 16 and 17. I would like to vote in favour of the amendment by the President of Ukraine. [[16:29:44]] For the five of us. Correction not supported. Now, Amendment 5.1 on page 18. I would like to vote in favour of this amendment. [[16:30:07]] For-9 No correction supported. I'll bet the vote on Amendment 5.2 on page 19. [[16:30:27]] For-9 Correction not supported. I'm betting on the vote of the 6th Amendment of the President of Ukraine, page 21 from the turn to the 22nd. Please vote. [[16:30:49]] For -6 Correction not supported. Now, Amendment 7.1 on page 22. I would like to vote in favour of this amendment. And it goes to page 23. [[16:31:11]] For-7. No correction supported. Amendment 7.2 on page 26 to page 27. I would like to vote in favour of the amendment by the President of Ukraine. [[16:31:37]] For-9 Correction not supported. Now page 28, Amendment 7.1, the first part of this amendment. I'm voting for her support. [[16:32:02]] For-12. The decision is not taken. I mean, the president's amendment is not supported. Now Amendment 7.1 on 28-29 pages, this is the second part of this amendment already. I would like to vote in favour of the President of Ukraine's proposals in Amendment 7.01. [[16:32:37]] For-9 Correction not supported. Now page 32, Amendment 7.1 of the President of Ukraine. I would like to vote in favour of this amendment. It also goes to page 33. [[16:33:02]] For-7. No correction supported. Amendment 7.1. on pages 35 and 36. I would like to vote in favour of this amendment. [[16:33:29]] For the five of us. No correction supported. The eighth amendment on page 37. I would like to vote in favour of this amendment. [[16:33:54]] For -6 The President's proposal is not supported in Amendment 8. Now page 38, Amendment No. 9 of the President of Ukraine. I would like to vote in favour of this amendment. [[16:34:21]] For -6 No correction supported. Amendment 10 on page 30, 40 and 41. I would like to vote in favour of this amendment. [[16:34:50]] For-7. The amendment is not supported, so it is rejected. Now page 47, Amendment 12.1. I would like to vote in favour of this amendment by the President of Ukraine. [[16:35:20]] For-9 Correction not supported. Now Amendment 12.1 on page 50. I would like to vote in favour of this amendment. [[16:35:45.]] For-9 Not supported Amendment 12.3 on page 50, moving to page 51. I would like to vote in favour of this amendment. [[16:36:09]] For the 10th. No correction supported. Amendment 12.2 on page 51. I would like to vote in favour of this amendment. [[16:36:32]] For -6 No correction supported. Amendment 11 on pages 51 and 52. I would like to vote in favour of this amendment. [[16:36:57]] For -8 Correction not supported. Amendment 12.2 on pages 54 and 55. I would like to vote in favour of the President of Ukraine's proposals set out in Amendment 12.2. [[16:37:27]] For-9 Correction not supported. Amendment 14 on page 58. I would like to vote in favour of this amendment. [[16:37:51]] For -6 Correction not supported. Amendment 17.2 on page 61. I would like to vote in favour of this amendment. [[16:38:20]] For -6 Correction not supported. Dear colleagues! I feel like I missed amendment number 13 on page 58. I apologize and put to the vote Amendment 13 of the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[16:38:53]] For -6 Correction not supported. Now Amendment 17.1 of the President of Ukraine on pages 61-62. I would like to vote in favour of this amendment. [[16:39:20]] For -6 Correction not supported. Correction for number 17.3 on page 62. President of Ukraine, of course. I would like to vote in favour of this amendment. [[16:39:49]] For the five of us. Correction not supported. And now Amendment 17.4 on page 63. I would like to vote in favour of this amendment. [[16:40:14]] For the five of us. Correction not supported. Amendment 18 of the President of Ukraine on page 62. I would like to vote in favour of this amendment. And it continues on page 64 of this amendment. [[16:40:39]] For the four of us. Correction not supported. So the honourable colleagues, all the amendments proposed by the President of Ukraine, were put to the vote. Perhaps in such a way that there are no other objections, so I would put to the vote, if you don't mind, generally or we would support the President's proposals for taking them into account and adopting the law in the new edition. So that we don't have any objections, can we put it that way? [[B in m in s a l in]] You don't have to? Dear colleagues! The proposal is not supported, especially since it is not included in the Rules, but given the sensitivity of this point I have formulated my proposal with which you do not support – your right. Now, honourable colleagues, I'm putting to the vote the committee's proposal on. Please, for reasons of urgency, insist on Ivan Alexandrovich, please. Well, dear fellows, let's keep it together, please speak again, calm down. Prepare to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u125	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. I understand this scream and noise, because I know that the two megablocks have agreed to divide power, to move people away, to deprive them of their right to be active in the election campaign, and I understand the ideology of these people, so I don't even pay attention to them. I want our voters to know that there is a bill in this room today that will allow us to elect a President without the will of the people who weakens the electoral process that allows us to manipulate a list of voters that allows us to manipulate the results of the election and many, many other procedures that are a departure from even the level of democracy that was enshrined in the People's Elections Act in 2006 and 2007. I'd like the media to show them how to vote with someone else's cards today, and they don't even want to take it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-08-21-m0.u126	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I am voting on the proposal of the committee to overcome the veto of the President of Ukraine on the Ukrainian Act “To amend certain legislative acts concerning the election of the President of Ukraine”. [[Registration number 4741]] I'd like to make a statement. [[16:43:35]] For 325 The President's veto on the Ukrainian Act on amending certain legislative acts concerning the election of the President of Ukraine has been overtaken. By factions, please, the Party of the Regions – 168, Block of Timoshenko – 153, Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense – 4, Communist faction – 0, Block of Lithuania – 0, non-fractional – 0. Dear National Deputies, the list of issues that have been identified for discussion and decision-making at the next session, we have exhausted, questions considered, decisions taken. We'll start our work, or we'll start our next session on September 1. The day before, or Monday, the Conciliation Council will meet. I'd like to ask the factions, committee leaders, to make proposals immediately to the order of our day work for the next session so that we can make this decision on the first day of our work. I declare the sixth call of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed.
