ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Please prepare for registration and invite the national deputies to the session room. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:36]] There were 424 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary meetings on February 5, 2009. Seven issues of the agenda, including three bills and 39 draft regulations, were considered. Two laws and 33 decrees were passed, one bill and six draft decrees were rejected. Honorary colleagues, in accordance with article 25 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, are being questioned on Friday for 30 minutes. Allow me to make parliamentary requests from the Ukrainian National Deputies: Mr. Vladimir PILIPEN to the President of Ukraine on the involvement of the Head of the Office of the President of Ukraine, the Head of the Department of State Protection and other high-ranking personnel in the illegal transfer of state property (aircraft) to private entities associated with officials of the Office of the President of Ukraine and the Department of State Security, which makes it impossible to implement a state-wide infrastructure project of international importance from the creation of the Uzin International Truck and Passenger Airport. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:03:21]] For 244 Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:03:44]] For 288 Decision taken. Igor ŠAROVA to the President of Ukraine on the reasons and reasons for Sergey Paska’s release from office as Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of Ukraine to the United Arab Emirates, Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of Ukraine to the Kingdom of Bahrain, Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of Ukraine to the State of Qatar. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. Please vote. [[10:04:20]] For 288 Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[10:04:41]] For 288 Decision taken. Leonida GRACH to the President of Ukraine on the catastrophic situation that took place at the International Children's Centre, Artek. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. Please vote. [[10:05:09]] For 196 Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:05:29]] For 203 The decision is not taken. OXANI BILOZIR to the President of Ukraine to mark the national awards of the country's outstanding Ukrainian musicians Vladimir Iwasuk and Igor Bilozer. [[Post-mortem]] I'll put it to a vote to support the request. Please vote. [[10:06:00]] For-74. Request not supported. Ally ALEXANDROVSKI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the inappropriate response to the Ukrainian Ministry of Defence on the issue of the preservation of the State Enterprise "110 Kharkiv Car Repair Plant". Vassila PETOVKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the cessation of funding for the rehabilitation of objects affected by the natural disaster of July 23 - 27, 2008 in the Rakhiv district of Zakarpat. Vladimir CARPUCA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the restoration of the work of the trucking customs complex "Autoport Yagodin" in the Volinsk region. YEUGENA GOOD TO THE Prime Minister of Ukraine for the recalculation of pensions for working pensioners. MICHELLA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to carry out radiation and social protection measures for the population of the city of Yellow Waters of the Dnipropetrov region. Alexander ŠEPELEV to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the transfer of the main gas pipeline to the villages of Mikhailivka and Verbek Murovan in the Hmmelinsky district of Hmělní region from the balance sheet of the Čerkasitransgaz Mainline Management in the use of the open stock company Hmielnickgaz. Paul SULKOVSKI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the conservation of the Ravnen Regional Project Technology Centre for the Fertility of Lands and the quality of produce located in the village of Shubkov in the Plain region. Paul SULKOVSKI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the unsatisfying response to the parliamentary request to the Minister of Defence of Ukraine and the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the abuse by military officials of A1519 to provide housing for the families of members of the armed forces of the city of Dubno Plain region. LITHUANIA’S Jury to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds from the State Budget of Ukraine to complete the construction of the Wilshan Central District Hospital in the village of the village of Wilshanka Kirovograd district. Group of National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, on the inadequacy of the public procurement procedure with respect to the requirements of the current Ukrainian legislation. [[COMARA, TABICA, and others. Total 5 deputies]] Mr. Mikoli Sherschun and Ms. Katerina Vashuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the repayment of the debt for the large cattle farmed in 2008 by farmers of the Dubrovnik region of the Plain region and the legislative settlement of land and agrarian issues. Mr. Andria PAVLOWSOVSKI to the first Deputy Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, Valentin Navejchenka, concerning the non-payment of salaries for 2008 to employees of the Administrative and Economic Administration of the Ukrainian Security Service in Kiev. Victoria DEMJANČUK to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine on the non-application by the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine and the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine of the active measures aimed at the dismissal of the occupied position and the criminal responsibility of the Chief of Linear Administration at the South-West Railways of the Ministry of Internal Affairs on the rail transport of Paul Güzola for the promotion of stable criminal groups that are audaciously violating the rights of citizens and causing damage to the State in a particularly large way. Vladimir DENILENKA to the first Deputy Head of the Security Service of Ukraine Valentina Navejchenka for the submission of lists of Soviet leaders who participated in the organization of the Holodomor in 1932-1933 in Ukraine and political repression in Ukraine. Victoria DEMJANČUK to the Minister of Interior, Head of the DPA of Ukraine, Minister of Health, Head of the State Committee on Technical Control and Consumer Policy, Prosecutor General of Ukraine on numerous abuses and systematic corruption by the head of the South-West Railway Management Board of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the railway transport of Paul Güzola, who has created a number of entrepreneurial structures that he currently personally "breathes" and organizes their criminal activities with a view to the satisfaction of his own and family interests. Igor KALETNIKA to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the inappropriate response of Ukrainian law enforcement authorities to cases of open banditry, arson, attacks and persecution that take place in relation to the Communist Party of Ukraine and the property of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Vladimir DANILENKA to the Ministry of Transport and Communications of Ukraine regarding the installation of a passenger platform in the village of Likarska Suma district of the Suma region. Vladimir MATWEYEVA to the head of the National Tax Administration of Ukraine on corruption in the state tax administration of the Dniprov district of Kiev and the inaction of the tax police. Gennady ZADIRKA to the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the introduction by the City of Kiev of an irregular order of blocking cars in parking spaces in Kiev. GREGORY to the National Bank of Ukraine regarding the provision of information on Ukraine’s gold stock. Mr Eduard PRUTNIK to the Minister for Culture and Tourism of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Head of the District Government Administration of the Chernigiv Region, Head of the District Council of Montenegro on the need for verification of the facts set out in the collective address of officials of the central library system of the region of Czernigiv region on the implementation of the order of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism of Ukraine dated 18.10.2005. No. 745. Mr. Eduard PRUTNIK to the Minister of Health of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Head of the Regional Government Administration of the Chernigiv Region, Head of the Ministry of Health of the Chernigian District Administration, Head of the Regional Department of the National Property Fund of Ukraine in the Chernigiv region, Head of the District Council of Chernigiv region, on the need for urgent action to resume the work of the Ferdsheer-Ackuscher village of Velika Doch in the region of Chernigiv. Igor KALETNIKA to the Ministry of Culture and Tourism of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the improper reaction of the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine to the criminal acts of officials of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, who violate the requirements of current legislation and abuse their official status, wrongly take away the status of cultural heritage from monuments and memorials of the Soviet era. Mr. Mikoli KULCHINSKI to the head of the Supreme Qualificational Commission of Judges of Ukraine for the conduct of the service tests by the Higher Qualification Commission of Judges of Ukraine for the performance of the official duties of Judge Paul Žmurk of the District Court of Poltava, presiding judge Michael Macarczuk, Judge Lydia Philipczuk, and Judge Alla Doros of the Court of Appeal of Poltava. Mr. Mikoli LESSINA to the Finance Minister of Ukraine, Chief of State Service of Ukraine, for the dismissal of the Chief of Audit in the Odessa Region of Lilia Tomaszewski for violating the ethics of the conduct of the civil servant and the immoral acts that are incompatible with the position taken. OXANA BILOZIR to the Ministry of Regional Development and Construction of Ukraine on the first-line allocation of housing construction costs, which have been suspended in connection with the failure or improper performance of the developers of their liabilities to investors in housing. Oleg MALIČA to the Head of the Chief Auditorate of Ukraine, Head of the Court of Auditors of Ukraine for the verification of the efficiency of the use of the funds of the Ukrainian State Budget at the Ministry of Defence during 2008. Ms. Alexander ŠEPELEVA to the Minister for Agricultural Policy of Ukraine on assisting agrarians to carry out a sowing campaign. Jury CARMAZINA to the Ministry of Regional Development and Construction of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the head of the Ternopil Regional Public Administration, the Ternopil City Head on the verification of the facts of service negligence, corruption, the non-application of actions by the head of the Ternopil Regional Inspectorate of Control in the Ternopil Region, the report by the Head of the Ternopil City Administration of the General Administration of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Ternopil area on the prohibition of construction and installation of construction works on the street of Biletsky,31, the use of measures for the immediate cessation of construction work by the private firm "TF Builder" and the involvement of those responsible. LITHUANIA’S Jury to the Head of the National Tax Administration of Ukraine on the return of the VAT due to the Open Association for Agricultural Engineering of the Red Star State Tax Administration of Ukraine. Groups of National Deputies to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Security Service, the Ukrainian Attorney General's Office on the state of freedom of speech and the facts impeding the legitimate activities of journalists in Odessa. [[BONDARENKO, LARINA, SULKOVSKI]] Mr. Andria PAWLOWSKI to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegality of setting up a fee for medical services in the city of Kiev by the State Administration. Valery of the Writer General to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the systematic violation by the Head of the Kyiv City Administration of Leonid Chernevski of the requirements of the current Ukrainian legislation in the establishment of housing and utility tariffs. Vassila GREECEA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the possible existence of a criminal group formed by officials of the Secretary of the Ukrainian President and the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine. Mr. Vladimir PILIPENK to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the involvement of the Head of the Office of the President of Ukraine, Victor Baloga, Head of the State Security Department of Valerius Hellet and other high-level owners in the illegal transfer of state property to private entities associated with officials of the Ukrainian Secretary of State and the Ukrainian State Security Authority, which makes it impossible to implement a state-wide infrastructure project of international importance from the creation of the Uzin International Truck and Passenger Airport. [[runway]] GREGORY TO THE U.S. Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation by the State Administration of the Kyiv City of the property rights of a limited-liability society called Centr-Cort. GREGORY to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding compliance with the requirements of the Ukrainian State Secret Act when auditing the gold reserves of the National Bank of Ukraine by the International Monetary Fund. Igor ŠAROV to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the assessment of the actions of the State officials on behalf of Ukraine at the UN International Court of Justice in The Hague on the delimitation of the continental shelf and exclusive economic rights of Ukraine and Romania. [[about Snake Island]] SERGEANT GORDIENKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for giving legal assessment to the management of the collective firm Valtex for deliberately bankrupting the company, experts from the limited liability company "Expert Service" in assessing the assets of the listed firm, the officials of the law enforcement authorities who investigated the cases referred to in the application of the founders of the collective firm "Valtex". [[Lubna city of Poltava region]] Ms Gordijenka to the Attorney-General of Ukraine for the protection of the interests of land and property owners of the Malomid village council of the Kostopil Region of the Plains region against the aggression of the management of the agricultural production cooperative Serpanok and the limited liability society of Malomidska. Mr. Stephen DAVIMIKI to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the official inaction of officials of the Drogby district attorney’s office in the region of Lviv. Stepan KURPIL to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the need for a criminal offence against payment of the paid wages owed to employees of the Lviv bus factory. Jury KRUKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the use of prosecutorial measures to protect the interests of Ukrainian citizens. Jury CARMAZIN to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the organization of an improper response by the employees of the Lviv District Prosecutor's Office to a parliamentary appeal No. 829 of October 31, 2008 concerning the examination of illegal actions by the Head of the Qualificational Commission of Judges of the Lviv District of Appeal of Jurij Makarim concerning the retention of parliamentary materials from 12.09.2008, No. 699 without consideration, the examination of the gross violation of the Ukrainian Law on the Court of Justice of Ukraine and the Rules of Procedure of the Qualifying Commission of Judges, the overcoming of official powers, the obstruction of the activities of the national deputy, which was reflected in the failure to comply with the legal requirements of the deputy, the adoption of measures for the consideration of the said parliamentary appeal and the involvement of those responsible. Groups of National Deputies to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the facts of public incitement to international hostility and violation of citizens' rights, depending on their ethnicity by the Minister of Culture and Tourism of Ukraine. [[TAPACICA, COMARA, AND OTHERS]] Groups of National Deputies to the Attorney General of Ukraine on violations by the Minister of Culture and Tourism of Ukraine of the Law on Protection of Cultural Heritage. [[TAPACICA, COMARA, AND OTHERS]] Caterina VASCHUK to the Prosecutor of the Plains Region, Head of the Plains District Council, for the enforcement of the requirements of valid land lease law by the Clevanske Village Council of the Plains Region, for the enforcement of the legal rights of residents of this inhabited area to acquire land rights in the light of long-standing use. LEFT BIRJECA to the Head of Hmeljna District Administration, Head of the Chief Financial Administration of the Hmeljna District State Administration, for information on the use of budgetary funds by the Structural Units of the Hmeljna District Administration in 2008. Alexia KOSTUSEVA to the Odessa City Council on raising tariffs for maintenance services in homes and insurmountable areas. Alexia PLOTNIKOVA to Kiev City Head for the replacement of elevators in House 102 on Red Army Street in Kiev Groups of National Deputies to the Kiev City Head on the illegal attack on the rights and property of the Kyivrada Association of War Veterans. [[CIBEN, TABICA, AND OTHERS]] Dear colleagues, 55 requests have been made, including four to the President of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the subject of defined issues, please sign up, your honors, five minutes on the organization of our work. Please. Yeah, there's a recording going on. Please put the name of the national deputies on the sign - up table. Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u2	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! I think we need to get to work, especially since the first issue on the agenda is the Report of the Interim Investigative Commission on the investigation of the state of functioning of Ukraine's gas transport system and the provision of gas to consumers. The thing is, unlike winning relationships, when all TV channels, radios, the media, all Kabmina walls, and inside, and outside, there's a figure of 228, the manufacturers are standing at $500 per gas. $500 is a funeral. That is why I want us to start faster and, indeed, objectively assess what is signed on the basis of the gas negotiations and how our industry will continue to live and survive the economy. I therefore propose to begin the agenda from the consideration of the report of the Commission of Inquiry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u3	Mikola Kravchenko, Communist Party faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u4	Thank you. Cowchenko, the Communist faction. Vladimir Mihajlovich, well, I've been talking about my, uh, second week in a row about the need to listen to the reports, and they're very important. But let's look at those bills that are relevant. To date, there are several bills to cancel the reduction of taxes on transport equipment. It's not because they picket. And I talked about it earlier this week, and last plenary week. We must consider the situation in Kiev. There is a bill, a specific bill on the delimitation of the functions of the city head and the heads of administration. Why are we afraid to take this case? Why do we make a mockery of Ukraine and the capital of Ukraine and cannot decide on such a crucial fate? If to this day we're afraid to touch Chernewsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u5	Give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u6	If we are afraid to take Montenegro and the fate of the capital, then let it treat us as the elephants and horses he speaks of from the television screen. There's nothing more to talk about.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u7	Thank you. Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u8	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I have no reason to say that among the bills that are now scheduled for the day, there are some passages, in the poor sense of that word, all are serious, and that are related to customs problems related to the formation and circulation and control of credit stories. This is very important both today and not only today. An important bill that applies to both combat and increased responsibility with the inflaming of hostility of various kinds. I'm interested in the principle. And I'd like to ask you this question. Yesterday we stopped at one or the other bill. So obviously logic suggests that what we couldn't do yesterday should be considered today. There were important but other bills. This might be some way to produce a normal algorithm. When we stop for something, we start working the next day. I think that would make sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u9	National Deputy Karpuk, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u10	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense", faction "For Ukraine!" Dear Volodymira Mihajlovich, the 2734 bill is now in the agenda of the report of the Interim Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I won't go on. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we had a hearing on 25 September 2008, and this ruling has already been put to the vote. There were several other suggestions. None of them received the required number of votes. Next. There has been a transcript of the Supreme Council of Ukraine since 18.12.2008 concerning the activities of the Interim Commissions of Inquiry, where it is proposed that the Committee on Rules and Deputies be chaired. It is decided that those committees that have already heard reports are considered to be their work.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u11	Give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u12	So I don't think that putting and putting this issue in the agenda today is relevant.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u13	Thank you. National Deputy Kravchuk, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u14	I give the floor to Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u15	Ivan Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u16	Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! The first issue of the agenda is the report of the Interim Investigative Commission on Gas Transport is not prepared. There was no committee meeting. The decision is not taken. So putting it in today is just setting the room on fire, the baseless charges of listening again, the hysteria and so on and so forth. Today, this issue needs to be removed as unprepared, moved to later periods to be considered in more detail. Instead, we need to place the things that are vital today. First question. Cancel the transport congregation. Prepare a document for an hour or two and cancel a transport convention that is today that concerns society. The second thing to do. 3556 — a draft pension bill is essential. He is ready to be considered, placed in the order of the day, and voted. Cancel the election decision in Ternopol, because 10 million is planned in the budget, all 10 will go to Ternopil. We voted yesterday on how many elections we have to make, and we can't.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u17	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u18	Ternopils, 3686. The issue of ratification with Saudi Arabia, 0114, the bill is fully ratified because two days later our serious delegation is leaving. Ratification refers to the protection of investments. It is also an extremely important bill, which would also be important today. And 1105, there's a bill that's ready for consideration that deals with the order of payment of wages in the event of business bankruptcy. These are small but extremely important bills. The faction insists that they be placed in the order of the day and considered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u19	Dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts. As for the suggestions that have been made. I'm asking for your attention. Regarding amendments to the Transport Congregation Act. Right now, my fellow Members, we have eight drafts. And there came bills from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. You and I have decided that the next plenary week, on the first Tuesday, this decision will be taken. I mean, your honor, otherwise the Supreme Council will be working on the challenge. She made a mistake and had to correct it. Tomorrow other people will come under pressure, and we will make decisions. So the first one is Tuesday, because we have to consider the government project. And we need to make a unanimous decision if you're going to support us to go out with one bill, because if we do eight, we're not going to make any decisions, but we're going to take all the proposals into account. So let's not insist today, because tomorrow we won't be able to start a job at all. As for honorary colleagues, the Friday schedule. You and I have decided that all the working days are Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, if we haven't considered one or the other, they're going to be the next day. But on Friday, we work on Friday, because we have a clear fixation: reports of temporary special committees, decisions on reports that we have not made before, and at 13 o'clock “Varises”. So I would ask you here with an understanding of this fact. It's Kramatorsky. Dear colleagues, I must tell you the exact information on this subject. We have already considered it because there has been an appeal by a number of deputies. Yes, 18.12 The Supreme Council of Ukraine decided to suspend a number of temporary investigation committees, including the commission. As well as considering the report of this commission, I read: “Dear colleagues, since there is no willingness of factions to support the obvious things now, that is to say, to take note of the report that has passed, and to refer these materials to those bodies that have constitutional powers to approve the decisions on this issue, we can now give the task of developing draft regulations and returning to that matter to the point of readiness. [[That's the chairman.]] Is there a denial? There is no objection.’ So let's do it this way. When we approach this issue, we exchange our thoughts, for there is insistence on one side and denial on the other that it has lost its relevance and is out of date. Because we fight back and we get nothing out of it. With regard to the proposals made by John Grigorovich Kirilenko, distinguished colleagues, we made a preliminary report on February 6th when we took the decision to create this commission. Dear colleagues, let's go into the normal area. We will now take a decision by the Supreme Council, but I would like to remind you that the Order we adopted on January 13, 2009, paragraph 9, reads as follows: “the preliminary report of the Provisional Investigation Commission to hear on February 6, 2009 at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.” Report, listen, I want to say again, dear colleagues, I want to say again. If we want to work properly, I'm asking you to start talking about how we listened to the National Bank reports. Well, you understand everything perfectly. So let's now, as we look at this issue, let's say that the previous commission that works and the question of whose report should be considered that they had previously submitted a report and that there was a protocol. Whether this report has been reviewed and approved by the appropriate commission. So I'd like to tell you, dear colleagues, I'm addressing you. Let's show principle when we look at all the issues, let's do it. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, you don't put us all in an awkward position. The second question is about cancelling the transport congregation. I'd like to ask my respectable colleagues not to insist on this. Because tomorrow we're going to cancel all the other laws, including the law that we didn't pass on pension insurance. And all the other suggestions, let's just agree to them now, and we'll be the first to look at them in the next plenary week. Because now we're going to ruin the decisions we've made. As far as ratifications are concerned, this is the law, draft Law 0114. I'd like to ask your colleagues to support us, because two days later, our delegation is leaving for the proper negotiations. We have an unratified document. And I'd like us to look at it. No warning? And on other issues, let's get back to them in the process. Let's do it this way. I'll ask the committee to file a motion for a ruling. Then I'll contact you, if there's no objection, I'll put it to the vote to step away from the approved schedule and include it in the schedule of meetings. If the Supreme Council backs up, we'll look into it. Let's do it this way. Well, it's an accident. Do we have a deal? I ask you to provide the necessary documents. Dear colleagues, this is a preliminary report from the interim investigation committee on the state of play of the Ukrainian gas transport system and the provision of gas to consumers. I want to say, if we have differences and we have a special idea, and who will speak with a special mind, we will give this opportunity to the members of the committee. The following is suggested: Within 20 minutes, the head of the temporary special commission, Inna Hermanovna Bogoslovska, will be asked and answered in 20 minutes and 20 minutes for the exchange of thoughts, that is, statements by Ukrainian national deputies. No warning? I ask you, Your Honor, let us vote in favour of this rule of procedure. Well, colleagues, then we'll work like this, well, please, 20 minutes -- report, 20 minutes -- answers to questions, if there's a special thought -- 10 minutes and 20 minutes -- exchange of thoughts, that's the speech of the national MPs. We have to vote. Dear colleagues, we're moving away from the Rules, let's make everything according to the Rules. I mean, 20 -- report, 20 -- answers to questions, 10 -- special thought, and 5 minutes -- answers to questions when it's gonna be a special thought, and 20 minutes -- statements from deputies. Is such a proposal supported? Please vote. Then we'll go to the usual rule -- we'll talk about this for three hours. [[10:37:45]] For 176 Then we follow the normal rules. Ten minutes. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes, you will speak with a special mind, but the chairman of the committee will speak. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen! Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! I'd like to ask everyone to sit down, that's a nuisance when a national MP comes up and says, "I have a decision to make." I have many things at home, but the documents to be submitted to the Supreme Council, please refer them to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. What's the interesting question?Oh, my God! So let's follow the normal rules. For the 10-minute interview, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u20	It's a procedural question.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u21	It's not a procedural question, it's not a decision to make, unfortunately. We've been consulting here.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u22	So what's the order?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u23	Ten minutes to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u24	What's next?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u25	Ten minutes of answers to questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u26	Well, if you want ten minutes to report, then I'll speak very briefly. First and foremost. For those who were always in opposition, he shouted about the rights of opposition. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that the temporary commission of inquiry is a tool for the activity of the opposition. That's why they vote “in favour” – 150 votes in the room. That's why they don't make decisions by a majority, but by any procedure. And that's why we're going to talk about what's installed. That's why I'm going to insist on putting the previous report in the media because the Supreme Council is not giving us an opportunity to listen. The report is that, yesterday, the commission was sitting out of the fact that neither the representatives of BUT nor the representatives of our Ukraine came on board, and it did not become illegal, honorable, because if you read the Rules, it is in the commission's competence to determine how it works. And that's why I'm telling you the facts, just the facts. On October 2, a memorandum was signed between the prime minister of Ukraine and Russia. A previous agreement between Naftogaz and Gazprom was signed to implement this memorandum on the signing of a gas supply contract in Ukraine by February 1st, a transit contract will be signed and debts will be repaid before Gazprom. It wasn't done. The Cabinet of Ministers did not finance Naftogaz, in violation of its approved financial plan. In addition, the talks on behalf of the Ukrainian side were withdrawn by December 30th, and on December 30th, I want the whole country to know that, on December 30th, the Ministry of Fuel and Energy signed a lawsuit before the court, the Ukrainian Court of Justice declaring the Russian gas transit contract invalid by the Ukrainian side. On the same day, on December 30, Mr Dubina of Naftogazu Ukraine signed a letter to Gazprom stating that Naftogaz would not be transported from January 1st to the contract that works and that all Russian gas could be confiscated by the Ukrainian side as a smuggling operation. And on December 31st, such a letter was submitted to Gazprom during the negotiations. Right after such a letter was filed, Gazprom made a statement that Ukraine was blackmailing, and as you remember, the negotiations were broken down. Since January 1, Russia has cut supplies of gas to Ukraine since January 1. But she was still transporting gas because there was a long - term contract for transportation. On January 5th, however, the Ukrainian court had already appealed to Minpalevenergo and, on January 5, the Ukrainian court, by its ruling, had banned the “Ukratransgazu” and “Naftogazu” from transporting Russian gas through Ukrainian territory. And it was after that that that Russia, on January 5, for the first time, reduced the volume of transportation by only 50 million. And on January 7th, it stopped because it was forbidden to transport this gas by the Ukrainian side. On January 9, in the final hearing of this case, the Cabinet of Ministers joined the case because it was clear that Minpalevenergo had no right even to be an appellant. Thus, the facts have proved that this was a coordinated activity on the termination of the contract and the provocation of the gas conflict on the Ukrainian side. This time. And we're going to demand from the Attorney General's Office a criminal offence. The other one. Those who accuse Ukraine of stealing gas. We don't support theft, because it wasn't intentional, there was no point in stealing. Indeed, Ukraine removed 52 million Russian gas from the pipe in seven days of January 2009, but this was returned in the near future, not to steal gas, but to provide technical transport conditions. So the idea of stealing wasn't here, and we can't agree with the Ukrainian accusations of gas theft. And third, reverends! The damage caused to Ukraine, Russia, Europe by the collapse of gas transport contracts is billions of dollars that our citizens will pay off with you from their own pockets. And those who are guilty of premeditating the termination of the contract and delaying the withdrawal of the contract, and if you remember, for seven days all the authorities of Ukraine disappeared, no one could even find them in the negotiations, and that means that the conflict was deliberately provoked. And all the evidence is presented by the commission. Next. The Cabinet of Ministers, Minpalevenergo and Gazprom, and Naftogaz, and this is confirmed, and this is confirmed by a documentary letter stating that Ukraine is refusing transit, calling on the court to annul this treaty and banning the Ukrainian court from transporting Russian gas in the territory. Next. As for the terms of the gas deal. The gas deal was signed, first, on the basis of a document that was made with abuse of power. On January 19, 2009, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, acting on his own authority, signed directives on a gas agreement under which conditions of a gas agreement were established that are detrimental to Ukraine. Under the Cabinet of Ministers Act, the Cabinet of Ministers is a collegiate body and its decisions can be taken in a collegiate manner. According to the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers, the directive is a decision made solely by the Collegiate Authority of the Cabinet of Ministers. Therefore, the Prime Minister of Ukraine did not have the legal right to sign directives on gas contracts on a case-by-case basis. She did it. As we know, it did so because without directives, Naftogazu leaders refused to sign agreements that did not fully comply with the President's directives and the Framework Agreement of a memorandum that was signed between the prime ministers of Ukraine and Russia. Under these terms of the gas contracts, the main principle of which had previously been reached was that gas prices would rise at the same time as the price of transit was increased. Moreover, this gas agreement has laid a mass of foundation, a foundation for us to have constant scandals over gas issues over the course of the year, and that is why today the Ukrainian industry has no definition of what price will be for gas for industry as well as how we still do not know what price will be for the “Heatcommunerge”, because if you know, at the price now signed in the “Naftogazu” budget, the price should be up to 16 billion, and the budget will be 1.6 and who will compensate for this difference in money, which will be Ukrainian citizens who will become beggars. And this error rests with those who, after violating the law and beyond their authority, signed directives that went beyond the legal instructions of the Ukrainian President and a memorandum signed between the prime ministers of Ukraine and Russia. As for the terms of the gas deal. I want to draw your attention to another deception that is trying to hold power in Ukraine right now. We are making statements to the government that the transit rate is not set for 2010 and that this will be the subject of negotiations. That's a lie! By paragraph of the Gas Transit Act, the formula for the following year is clearly established and at an average cost of $228.8, this transit will amount to $2.4. This means that even in 2010, Ukraine will not have about a market price for transit. It's a betrayal of national interests, that's for sure! These are the direct losses that have been incurred in these gas contracts! Besides, I want to draw your attention to the fact that we still all think that the transit rate is in.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u27	Let me finish. One minute! I beg your attention, fellow officers!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u28	And about the commission's work, the last trailer. If you, Your Honor, think you've mastered all power in Ukraine, you're wrong and the truth will come to the people. And this temporary commission will work until the first handcuffs are fastened on the guilt of the hand! Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u29	Yes. Inna Hermanovna, questions, questions. Dear colleagues, questions, please sign up. Please give me the names of the national deputies who are registered, please. Zabzaluk People's Deputy, faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u30	I have a question for the reporter. Have you really heard your previous report by members of the TSC? I continue to give the floor to the National Deputy of Terrena.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u31	Victor Terrence, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u32	Well, there is no doubt that in your report, as it were, the words “on the fault of the Ukrainian side” would have spoken, because you are essentially defending Russia, because your party was and will obey the Kremlin's instructions. This time. But the question. Either on the direction of the Kremlin, or on which the leader of your faction, the leader of your party, Yanukovic, claimed that the price of gas should be $240 per thousand cubic metres. If you're saying that $228 is a betrayal of national interests, 240 dollars is what Janukovic offered, which is a super-surrection of national interests?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u33	Thank you for asking. Last night there was a meeting of the interim commission of inquiry, which was not attended by the representatives of BUTU, “Our Ukraine”, but there were representatives of the “Block of Lithuania”, the Party of the Regions, and then Mr. Kzarkov received these documents because he was simply on another commission. The fact that “Our Ukraine” and “BUT” are breaking down means that they do not know that the provisional commissions of inquiry are not governed by the Rules themselves and that even if two people come to the meetings, its meetings will be real. So your attempt not to come is just another confirmation that you do not want to give the people of Ukraine the truth. You're hiding everything. You're afraid that normal professional people will open the dust over what you've made. And behind your back, they're actually betraying national interests and trading because I haven't been able to say. A major achievement.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u34	Complete the answer to your questions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u35	Thank you. You accuse us of serving interests. Please tell Mrs. Timoshenko when she agreed that 25 per cent of the volume of imported gas should be given to Gazprom's daughter, who is 100 per cent owned by Gazprom, who will serve you, in fact, the entire Ukrainian industry. Who, then, serves whose interests? How much it cost.?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u36	Thank you. Please, the Kraljkov National Deputy, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u37	Inna Hermanovna, two questions: one of the factions, the other of the commission. Well, from the faction, I would like to examine the conclusions of those arrangements that were between Ogresco and Condoleezza Rice, and Ogresco represented the President's interests in diplomatic escorting the negotiations on the gas transport system. What kind of language is that? And you know it. And the second. The fact that we've practically introduced a watershed on the commission today, yes, by flowers, that's unacceptable. It is clear that, unfortunately, the Rosukrenerego is not defined by one color of the commission, somewhere that we do not know why we have 0.9 on the tariff by the other side for 2009. Plus, we have a project to set up a third commission on Rosukrenergo. I propose that we answer these questions here at the time of the discussion, not create new commissions, and that the Commission, in fact, does not share flowers, but also deals with Roskrennergo, and with the directive that Timoshenko signed by hand, without having the right to do so when she went to Moscow.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u38	Give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u39	All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u40	Please, Inna Hermanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u41	Thank you. I'll tell you honestly, we've been trying to get things right from the start. But when my colleagues in the U.S.A. realized that experts were working and that we quickly got all the information and gave it professionally. You can't argue with any of the facts in this note. You just can't argue because under every argument of the document. And so if you don't laugh, you're going to cut the country off, reverend! As long as you can! As for the Strategic Partnership Charter. Of course, we will study that question. With regard to “Rosukrenerge”. We've made all the right requests, we've asked the Prime Minister of Ukraine to provide us with information on the termination of contracts, and the President of Ukraine, and the Prime Minister of Russia, and the Head of Gazprom to provide us with documents. Regrettably, of these four persons, only the President had agreed to meet. From everyone else we're waiting for an answer. I'm telling you here that everything about Rosukreenergo will be investigated.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u42	Give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u43	It's in our interests. Because we are sure that all calls are unprofessional and unfounded.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u44	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u45	But we have to prove it. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u46	Burlakov National Deputy, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u47	I'd like to give you the Chechnya word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u48	Mikhailo Chechetov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u49	Dear Inna Hermanovna, well, we hear Kabmin's solo songs every day and they end in tragedy for the people. We heard a solo song about market fees in this room. The Poles put it on their heads, almost tossing our entrepreneurs into the asphalt. Then there was a solo song at the transport station. Once again, tens of thousands of people moved here, and we almost destroyed all the traffic. Now we hear a solo song on the gas, that's 228. But they're addressing the director of enterprises from eastern Ukraine, where the industrial heart of the country is located, and they say we don't care how much it says in Kabmin. Explain why we're paying 520?Oh, my God! I have a specific question. If there's 228 in Kabmin, and the enterprises pay 520, where does 300 go?Oh, my God! Whose presidential campaign does that charge, right?Oh, my God! Where's that margin going? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u50	Thank you. A venerable Ukrainian community! Now I want to tell you again that this report is the previous one. The Supreme Council has decided that the commission will work for two months. So we decided in the first session that the circle of issues that you're dealing with today is just the first stage of the commission's work. We invited both Naftogaz Ukraine and Transgaz about information on tariff formation, prices for internal consumption and so on. Unfortunately, as we know, at the direction of one high person in the country, but we don't know whose exactly, but also Naftogaz, and Gazprom have actually refused to give us documents and let us go around. And only now did they offer us every document to come to them and get there. We'll do it too, Your Honor. But I also want to tell you that I am very pleased to see the Minister of Fuel and Energy today, whose fault was four times the session of the commission was torn down because he did not appear on it. And only when we gave him a burning welcome and told him that there might be a criminal responsibility did we get a letter that he was ready to meet with the commission at any time. I thank him very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u51	National MP Volintz is passing on the right to the question to Peter Stepanovich Cibenk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u52	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear Inno German, I understand that you have a chronological framework for researching the problem. But please tell me, did you try to explore the issue in a broader perspective of the contribution of nationalists to the fact that when they first came to power, the price was $50 per thousand cubic meters, now it's 450. Has the commission, for example, tried to investigate this phenomenon? And the second question. Please tell us if there was a problem that, when there was a problem of halting gas transport, Ukraine claimed that even technically Ukraine could not stop the supply of Russian gas to Europe, we did not have valves. But when Russia’s supply was renewed, Ukraine stopped it. So it turns out there's a valve. Have you examined this problem or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u53	Thank you for that question. Dear citizens of Ukraine, it must be understood that there was intense pressure before the work of this temporary commission of inquiry. Already at the second session of BUT, “Our Ukraine” and “Block of Lithuania” tried to ask questions about removing me from their heads. They're so scared, they're so scared of the truth. And the fact that you have not even given 20 minutes to report today means that you have already given the diapers, as your prime minister says. So you're going to need them many more times because Ukraine won't forgive you for what you did to the gas. I'm answering your question. All the most beautiful conditions Ukraine had with regard to gas supply were destroyed only when the orange team came to power. And for many years you will be responsible for what you have done with the Ukrainian industry. And the fact that Ukraine is today defined by UN experts as the first one that is closest to the default, and that today by European experts this government is called the most inefficient in the world -- the government after the crisis -- means the quality of your work, and how you are.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u54	Complete your opinion, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u55	I'll fire in the gas market, actually destroying all our privileges and preferences. So you did with the country as a whole. And as you commit corruption and criminal crimes in the gas market, so do you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u56	Thank you. Time's up. Thank you, Inna Hermanovna. A national MP is invited, Goodima. Please, five minutes for the show, five minutes for the question. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u57	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! I'm here as the deputy head of the interim commission of inquiry, and I want to say that the head of the commission, the national deputy, from the Party of the Regions today represented the position not of the commission but of the Party of the Regions. And I want to give you the facts. To compete with a national deputy, head of the commission, in an emotionally futile matter. I'll only give you the facts. So this morning, most of the members — six out of eleven — made an appropriate statement to the head of the commission, the head of the commission. I can name names, regardless of your findings, to continue the work of the interim commission of inquiry, in particular to examine the circumstances of the influence of “Rosukrenerego” on the deliberate deterioration of the financial situation of NAK “Naftogaz” of Ukraine and to prevent the breakdown of negotiations with AO “Gazprom”. The second is the TSC's previous report not to approve. And the third is to invite the Supreme Council of Ukraine to listen to the TSK report if approved by most members of the commission. We have heard today from the chairman of the commission that, regardless of that, one member came or two members, there is still a decision of the commission. Well, let the regulatory committee analyze it. I wanted to say, however, that I agree with one statement proposed by the Lady of the Godsister on behalf of the Party of the Regions in what they called a temporary report. And you can't disagree with her. Paragraph 4 admits that the allegations of theft of Ukrainian natural gas by the Russian leaders of the Russian Federation have not been confirmed. That's the only thing I can agree with. [[Applause]] Everything else is not true. On the basis of the information provided by Oleg Dubina, the commission had no reason not to consider the operation of Ukrainian gas or gas carriers unprofessional. On the contrary, their actions were professional, and they saved not only the gas transport system but also the economy of Ukraine. What do we read in the so - called report? It turns out that the Ukrainian side acted unprofessionally. You can appreciate what the Party of the Regions is proposing, or what the majority of the commission is offering. But we wanted the Interim Commission's materials to record how NAC Naftogaz's financial situation affected the day before the negotiations with Gazprom, and who caused such a terrible financial situation? Clearly, there is no such thing in the proposed version. But we know very well that early in 2008, NAK Naftogaz set us up with a 10 billion debt, and over the course of the year, the government of Yulia Timoshenko and NAK Naftogaz reduced that debt and managed to leave the debt behind and go to zero in negotiations with Russia, which is their credit. We would also like the so-called previous report to describe the role of the political group of Ljowczyn, Firthash and Boyk in the collapse of the negotiations, as said by Gazprom’s head Miller, because he said who is the real culprit of the breakup of the negotiations, that RAO “Gazprom” was offered by “Rosukrenerego” such proposals as finally led to a break in the negotiations. So we know that the party of regions is a major lobbyist of the interests of Rosukrenerego. But today, as a commission -- and I'm handing it over -- we've got another big lobbyist in the interests of Rosukreenergo. Unfortunately, it's the Ukrainian Security Service. Here I am demonstrating to you, distinguished national MPs, an unprecedented case when the first deputy head of the Ukrainian Security Service in his letter to NAK “Naftogaz” Dubini proposes to provide an appearance to the Ukrainian Security Service of the responsible persons of the company who prepared documents for the clearance of Ukrainian gas, which Gazprom handed over to the Ukrainian NAK “Naftogaza”. It turns out, and not just Ljowczyn, and not just Firtash, and not just Boyko, not just the Party of Regions, but today's roof.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u58	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u59	and today the “breath” of “Rosukrenerego” is the Ukrainian Security Service. Please consider my presentation in the final stage to be a question of the name I don't know, because we don't have the heads of the Security Service with regard to Mr. Horoshkowski's actions that are damaging to Ukraine's national interests.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u60	Thank you. Questions. Question five minutes. Please sign up for the question. Please, it's recording. Please put the names of the national MPs on the board. People's deputy Beales, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u61	I have one question. Well, in large numbers today we're talking about consequences, unfortunately. Your position, correct or confirm. Is it true that Russia gives priority to the North Stream in 2011? And is it true that Russia provides another pipeline for the South Stream in 2013? Is that it or not, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u62	First of all, I think there are very few optimists in the Supreme Council who believe Russia will build the North Stream, because neither Poland nor Scandinavia will allow a questionable pipeline across the Baltic Sea. The South Stream will not be built either. But hypothetically, if these two streams were built, they would have no impact on the transport of Russian gas by the Ukrainian gas transport system. Those volumes will be preserved, more than that, they will increase.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u63	John the Rabbit's handing over the right to a question to a colleague of Jozik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u64	Dear Mr. Alexo, Jaroslav Jódzik, Ukrainian National Party. In January 2009, Ukraine and the whole world witnessed the unprecedented barbarism of the 21st century, when instead of in civilized litigation. Russia unrepentantly shut down both Ukraine and half Europe from gas. You've really confirmed that the only positive thing about the commission's report is that it confirmed that Russia, that Ukraine was not to blame for what the Russian high-level owners were talking about. At the same time, was it the subject of the commission's investigation of the fact that Russia deliberately shut down its gas supply to shut off eastern Ukraine's heat to cause social discontent and thus intervene?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u65	Let me finish the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u66	And that's how you intervene in the affairs of an independent state. Do you not think that the chairman of the commission by his report shows that he does not stand for the national interests of Ukraine but is the fifth column of the Russian State?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u67	Thank you. The final question, Mr. Joyce, will be the final report, and I think you will be able to directly ask the head of the commission whose interests it stands for. I'm not going to talk about myself, I'm going to talk about most of the stuff I represent on the committee today. Hearing the transporters of Ukraine can also be a small fact when we should be proud of the actions of our engineers and dispatchers, because the actions of Russia's Gazprom after we stopped gas supply to both Ukraine and Russia, and then the chaos that they wanted them to supply gas, knowing that on an existing scheme, if we went to that option, we would have left industrial Donbas without gas. And there's the high professionalism of Ukrainian gas transporters and the position of the government that we didn't go so wrong, that we left the Ukrainian population with gas, and finally we were able to compromise with Gazprom and supply gas. But at the same time, we need to conclude that the main culprit behind the gas crisis was the “RosuUkreenergo” and the political party that is on the roof.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u68	Anatoly Stepanovich Matvienko, faction of "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u69	The Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, the "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" Block. Mr. Alex, first of all, I would like to express my wish to you and to Mrs. Bogoslovak, because the emotion shown in this rostrum by you and especially Mrs. Bogoslovak shows that there is obviously no configuration on the committee to come out of the national interest. So the opposition you're demonstrating is about who's going to beat who. We need to think for Ukraine, including those bold statements you make, more so, Mrs. Now for the question. Tell me, the Prime Minister said yesterday that the industry has increased its price of gas by seven percent. Unlike metallurgy and chemistry, there are preferences. Today, statements say $520. Tell me, did NCRE decide what gas prices are today, and can we talk about what they are fixed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u70	Dear Mr. Matthew, well, I admit it's hard after such an emotional performance to contain your emotions. But when opposition tries to make Boyka, Firtash, and similar heroes of Ukraine on one hand, well, there is no way to agree to that, because the conclusions are diametrically opposite. Dial numbers, all transparent. The National Regulatory Commission comes out of the price that the government has offered the average per year. And I think that even though the increase is, the Ukrainian economy will hold because it got a signal from the government. It's only this year. If the price of oil, and the trend is that the price of oil is going to be stored at $40 to $50 over a six-month period. This would mean that the price of gas in the next 2010 formula we got from Gazprom would be less than $150. I think business, as it gets clarity from the government that's waiting for it over the course of the year and next year, will take this with understanding and use its internal capabilities.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u71	Yeah, time's up. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, we have 30 minutes to discuss this. First, we invite the faction leaders, or factions, to express their position, and the people’s deputies. Yes, I'm asking you to record it. We've got 30 minutes. Members of the factions will speak first, followed by national MPs. There's a recording going on. Please. Vladimir Yavorowski, faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Are you going to act from the faction? Microphone, please. Valentin Zubov, faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u72	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I'm going to try to get out of my emotions, although I'm going to say right away that I'm not an expert in the gas industry, I'm not a member of the interim commission of inquiry, I'm going to try to figure out the logic of what's going on in our room today. First of all, this is where all the market people sit. When I listened to the chairman's statement, I asked myself: are we discussing the problem of whether we are supplying Russia's gas or Russia is supplying us with gas? What am I talking about? If, under current conditions, Ukraine could acquire 50 dollars of gas in Iran, 75 dollars in Kazakhstan, 100 dollars in Uzbekistan, 30 dollars more, and the Cabinet of Ministers and Yulia Timoshenko went to Moscow and acquired 450 dollars of gas, then I understand that it would be the subject of conversation. And that's how it happens. Shut up! And so the problem is that a serious international conflict has arisen on a gas-based basis. Has the Government done everything in its power to exhaust this conflict and make serious progress by unlocking the solution, good or bad? And the fact that we're buying gas from Russia at a price of slightly more than a minimum, as Belarus acquires is good? Sure, fine. On the other hand, the question is purely technical. Mrs. Bogoslovska did not say that the vast majority of the metal industry in Ukraine is in the hands of the representatives of the Party of the Regions. These leaders, these owners of 17-year-old technology enterprises, are operating 46-55 years. And they spend the gas on the production of tons of products ten times more than the average world without any reconstruction of enterprises, sucking up the latest juices from these enterprises and the people working for them. So please do the reconstruction and the gas will not be worth 450, as you say, but it will cost $70. We have to work, not drool at the Cabinet of Ministers today. And the last. Dear colleagues! And especially Mrs. Bogoslovak, you know, when you start talking about the Cabinet of Ministers and especially the Prime Minister, you're not the only one. Mrs. Bogoslovak, you're not just a politician, you're a woman, when your face overwhelms evil and hatred for Julia Timoshenko, it's insane. It doesn't look good on you. I mean, you're a woman who's pretty and you're being very self-sufficient. We need to speak with arguments, not with emotion. Therefore, all we have heard today is a purely political problem. Let's take care of these issues and deal with them.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u73	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the Lithuanian Block. Get ready from "Our Ukraine People's Self-Defense," John the Rabbit from the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u74	Oleg Zarubinsky's Block of Lithuania. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! So I'm looking at the name of the commission and the name of the question that's being considered right now: investigating the state of functioning of Ukraine's gas transport system and providing gas to consumers. Is that what this was about? No, it's not. Didn't I understand what was being investigated in terms of the gas transport system? It seems to me that the heads of the commission, the representatives of the commission, should do their job. And you don't have to politicize the work of any temporary commission of the Supreme Council, otherwise the essence of the matter will never be heard before we hear it now. That's a first thought. That's a good point. You know, when energy security is said to be an ingredient and obviously one of the key components of national security, maybe that's the way national security should be treated. You've heard that in the Russian Federation, there's a discussion about a fuel-energy complex, about gas sales, oil sales, and so on. It was like one part of the country wanted to bury another part of the country, and eventually to eliminate the fuel-energy complex of the Russian Federation. Nothing like that! Perhaps we have heard the corresponding tonalities and notes when this is being considered in France, Germany, and elsewhere? What are we doing? But we are ruining and damaging Ukraine's national security. There are experts who know what a gas transport system is. There are people who "lived," sorry, teeth are already on external economic issues about energy supply. For this reason, people are incompetent and dilettarian rather than provide objective information, they try to politicize and to rise to the level of mutual accusations rather than mere mutual destruction. Who needs it? And the next moment. You know, all that happened in the gas field, I think, already smart people, and there are a lot of them in Ukraine and even among politicians, they've long said that today the question that's just been asked and never worked out about energy conservation is question number one. That although the question of diversification today is not just about flows, it's about diversification of energy sources and energy countries, by the way. And as for the alternative energy that we voted for in this Supreme Council, and gave the green light to develop alternative energy, it should not become a toy and hobby of individual entrepreneurs, but a question of number one. That's the kind of plane you have to consider! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u75	From the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" who will act? Ivan Alexanderovich? Please. From the Party of Regions here will Burlakov perform?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u76	John Hare, Ukrainian People's Party, faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear National Deputies! We didn't hear any report, it was just some kind of free thinking like that, and it says again that this commission is not coming out of the national interest of Ukraine, so it's never going to give us an objective assessment of both our authority and Russia's politics in terms of Ukraine. The first thing to start with is to assess Moscow's shares after stopping gas supply to Ukraine and to Europe. And this estimate can't be any different than energy aggression. There was military aggression in Georgia, there was political aggression in Ukraine, so as not to allow it to be allowed into the U.S.F.F., so as not to recognize the Holocaust as genocide, but now to use such weapons as energy aggression. And this is not the first time that Russia has used the Kremlin as a weapon against Ukraine. Remember, when they accepted, zero-distribution agreements were concluded when agreements were made for the temporary stay of the Russian Federation fleet in our territory, and so was the use of gas blackmail, and the use of gas to put Ukraine on its knees. So this was planned in advance by an action that pursued a whole set of goals, and Russia pursued the following goals: 1) to set very high prices for Ukraine in order to improve the financial situation of Gazprom, because Gazprom has received fifty billion loans and does not know what to pay. The second goal was to eventually break the formula for price fixing for gas supply and transit for all of Europe and start with Ukraine. Third, access to Ukraine's gas transport network through the creation of a variety of consortia, because of the collapse of Ukraine's Naftogaz. The fourth, to split Ukraine, to set its southern regions and eastern regions against Kiev, so that the people would go to Kiev to endure this authority. And the fifth is to split Europe apart, because Russia was counting on it to force Europe, the same Germany to finance the northern or southern flows, and thus, to give to Germany the northern pipe, to the Balkans the southern pipe, and to leave Central Europe with nothing. These were the whole of Moscow. So you can't say today that you've lost or won Ukraine, but you can only say one thing that's been done to us, if we don't understand these things, we don't understand anything about this policy. If you evaluate the agreements themselves, yes, the damage is great. But when there is no unity in power, there will never be anything. That's why both the opposition and the authorities had to demonstrate unity. The $40 base price suggests that there is no formula for both gas and transit supplies. So let's think about all of this in the complex, form claims to Russia all over.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u77	Give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u78	Let's look at all of this in a complex and go into a European gas and transit pricing scheme. So let us act in national interests rather than lobby a firm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u79	Vadim Koleschenko, faction of the Party of Regions, please, instead of Burlakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u80	Dear colleagues! Respectable voters! You know, the conversation in this room reminds us of the glorious Slav saying: "Swow in their eyes, they will speak the dew of God." The Interim Investigation Commission has drawn all its conclusions on the basis of documents and are on the committee. That's the first one. Second. These documents clearly confirm all the conclusions reached by the Chairman of the Bogoslovak Commission. The fact that Mrs. Timoshenko has refused to cooperate with the interim commission of inquiry speaks for herself. The fact that representatives of our Ukraine and the Yulia Timoshenko bloc are trying to disrupt the Commission's work speaks for themselves. What they say is true lies, it speaks for itself. One fact about RossUkrenergo. Our materials have specific answers from this company that this company did not participate in the negotiations in December and did not claim any participation in the negotiations. That's why. Excuse me, gentlemen. Watch yourself. Next question I would like to reflect on Mrs. Timoshenko. Today, in fact, according to my assessment, she is an official criminal because she, without a collegiate decision, has adopted directives on gas negotiations and these are objective things she has confirmed on her own and which are confirmed by documents. And these are facts that cannot be denied. The statement that the findings of the Commission on Non-Professionalism do not fit in is once again such a vote, because the question of professionalism refers to Mrs. Timoshenko and those who participated in the negotiations, and it does not speak of those techniques that were prepared for the start of the war on gas with Russia in advance of the year and prepared the system for the conversion, of course, they did this remarkablely. And thank them for participating in the gas war we organized. And these are the facts that are confirmed, unfortunately, by documents. The excellent documents that confirm that Ukraine did not really steal the gas -- 140 million cubic metres -- were temporarily removed for its technical needs to organize a reverse in its territory. Not anymore. And we are accused of defending our public interests. It is an excellent phrase that we, the Government of Timoshenko, are doing everything possible to reduce energy risks. However, the contract “buy all or pay” under which, irrespective of the quantity of NAC Naftogaz gas consumed, Ukraine will be obliged to pay at least 80 per cent of its annual gas supply contract. What's he talking about? We're going to use it, we're not going to use it for 80 percent of the pay. In such a situation, it is pointless to engage in energy-saving technologies because the State will have to pay for it. Finally, just.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u81	You might end up thinking.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u82	The director of the Dneproenstroprom plant from the town of Svetlovodska just called. He says, "Why does Timoshenko lie again? In December we paid for the gas 1901 bracelet, in January it was 2614. 37 per cent travel and Timoshenko explains 7 per cent.” You know what I'm gonna say. EES may be forgotten, but the crime against the people will not be forgotten.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u83	Thank you. From the faction of the Communist Party, Mikola Kravchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u84	Cowchenko faction commies. But I will tell you, my distinguished colleagues, that the people are already tired of these divisions, and he understands clearly and clearly at the grassroots level, that today there is simply a separation of the clans that are now engaged in the struggle for the transfer of the gas market. This is offset by the nationalist policy of President Yushchenko, who in this gas war also wanted to address the problems of nationalists. Thus, to date, the people and without an investigative commission know what is happening today. It is important for it to have access to the gas that we are talking about so much. And if this people, they're not interested in the Fertash gas, or Naftogaza gas, or the swindle, they're interested in the price, they're interested in the opportunity to buy it. And today, by destroying nationalist policies, by breaking normal agreements with Russia, we suggest that the people: let's think about new technologies in the form of kiosks and wood, let's think about how we're going to invent something there, and how we're going to survive the winter, we don't recommend it. Therefore, respectable colleagues, we must first understand one thing: gas is in Russia, we are buyers. Therefore, we must build our internal and external policies so that we can sit at the negotiating table and look each other directly in the eye. These are not the words of our nationalists, this Russianophobia. And the last thing that struck me was the speech of the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Ogrisco, who said it was time to forget about the Slavic brotherhood and so on. This is a final gas problem that translates into a political one. Therefore, respectable colleagues, if we do not accept the normal principles of domestic and foreign policy, if we give the floor to such statements by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, we will be sentenced to $500 and $1,000 of gas. Therefore, the faction of communists and the Company is in favour of removing from the negotiating processes the nationalist stupid policy that our countries are divorcing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u85	Dear colleagues, the factions are over. Now speak to the MPs. National Deputy Trofimenko, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u86	Yavorowski. Give Yavrovka a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u87	Please, Vladimir Yavorowski. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u88	Vladimir Yavorowski, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. The city of Kirov. We're done. Now, it turns out that there's a nationalist gas, and that's all we've had. We have, honourable colleagues, honourable voters, we have today, and the Ukrainian government today has an opposition that has more than once been in power, and in fact the price of this power we know very well. So to me, this opposition reminds me of a little girl who's involved in the death of her parents, but in court she's speaking and saying, but I'm an orphan, but I'm a round orphan, so you have to pardon me for it. This is exactly the same situation. During my parliamentary activities, I led the commission of inquiry on numerous occasions, including one that examined the causes of the Chernobyl disaster and so forth, and was a member of the commission on many occasions. But one that the head of a commission that was just elected yesterday, and he's already on TV channels the other day, and he's making accusations, it's already pissing, means, on cabbage, who falls under his hands, - where do you see it?Oh, my God! We're creating a commission, yes, it's a minority prerogative, and it's wonderful that it is. But there's a commission that needs a report from the person who's speaking, to discuss, to make his own amendments. After that, you can do it. I think how much noise there was around this committee, how many sound effects there were. What did we hear from the rostrum today? To be honest, what we heard from the rostrum today was not just printed by every district newspaper, but, I think, even by a lot. All of this has long been chewed, experienced, this poor Ukrainian of ours, of course, has been poisoned with so much gas today that he no longer knows where the ends are. And wouldn't it be better if this commission, which we created, and today, asked the question of the ruble, did everything every year for Ukraine to go to Russia somewhere in December or on its knees, to Moscow, and to resolve these issues immediately. It was the first year we had supplies, underground supplies in the Bogorods. And when we could still feel more or less calm and normal and human. The president claims in Warsaw, but we're already ready for $450, just as long as it ends. Three weeks before the new year, the president said so. The Prime Minister's bringing in 228.8. That's the price she brings and says, here she is. It turns out no, it's a betrayal of national interests. Guys, I feel like you and I are on a ship of fools, or you won't understand. I can't understand what kind of authority this is? Why aren't we talking about developing gas in a shelf? By the way, it's not known that there's an island with this Snake, we've won or we've lost. Because of this, we have to finish this. I ask you very much, Madam Inno, take off your gas mask, Ukraine is no longer a gas sector.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u89	National deputy of Kzarykov instead of a colleague of Zibank. Please, Vladimir Bondarenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u90	Respectable People's Deputies, distinguished voters! Indeed, as the representative of our faction Nikolai Kravchenko said, the conclusions of the communists can be considered the most objective because we did not participate, participate, or participate in this study. And in Soviet times, four kopecks were paid for gas, and no one remembered who to contract with and how to treat Russia or Turkey or Europe. However, the Commission was objectively interested in noticing such points. First of all, everyone understands that that year they played the principle of a spoon, you know, gold. And Victor Andrejevic, with his surroundings and with some of the region's surrounding areas, laid the bed in 2008. In 2009, Julia Vladimirovna wanted to transfer this bed to her pocket. That's basically what it looks like. That's why the commission doesn't work. At first, we gathered and really wanted to see if the people were happy and to move them to the economic plane. And by the end of the day, this presidential race is again facing the foreheads, and we can't draw a normal conclusion. Second question. Indeed, the consumer does not care who brokers, who buys gas. But the difference was: $179, when it was closed by one side, and now that we're 10 years old, we're at the base of 450. Question three. Yes, there is a question that the treaty is not legitimate. And today we all know that in a year, two, three, on the grounds that it wasn't signed legally correctly, and you know, this is about the directive, so tomorrow it will be cancelled, we'll run out of gas again. And the last question is international. The people's deputy Beviz correctly noted and noted that in 2011, Russia would find ways to close the 65 billion in Europe. This will be Nabucco, it will be the North Stream, it will be the South Stream of Europe, and we will be truly free. And you know that negotiations are currently under way, Lukashenko is ready, and he's going to have it in the first ballot, both in one chamber, and in the other, to allocate a plot of land for a 33 billion-dollar pipeline. And then we'll stay with the nose at all. Finally, I think I need to think about drawing conclusions here, removing all political ambitions, punishing the guilty, both on the one hand and on the other. I don't understand why he doesn't agree with either side. It's said to the board: go to the B.S.A., to the D.A.'s office. There were those responsible -- punish them, punish them here -- punish the other side. And the most important thing is to regulate properly through quotas. Because today, 500 companies have licenses to supply gas, and only 26 million people, billions of dollars of them are being smuggled. And there's a big theft going on. No one is talking about this, but some are waiting to bite the Party of the Regions for 2008; others, how to punish the oranges and the BUT for 2009, because, as in Russian, the frog pressures someone to come instead of Rossukrenerego to sit in another pocket. Please remove all the political elements of this issue, the Commissions will continue their work, because this is only the beginning of the crisis, and the price of gas will have a direct impact on it, and normal conclusions will be made somewhere in April, May.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u91	Thank you. Vladimir Bondarenko, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. Oleg Lazko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u92	Vladimir Bondarenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear friends, there's been a lot of talk today that gas relations are primarily about the relationship between Ukraine and Russia, and it's kind of a problem here. I don't think it's that far. And thanks to the fact that the Ukrainian government has asked the question of making direct agreements between the states of Russia and Ukraine, we have moved away from a terrible corruption pyramid. It was her interests that she today tried to protect the chairman of the commission. It protected the position of the President's Secretariat, which is long-fed from this pyramid, the faction position, which is called the “gas fraction”, the position of the Ukrainian Security Service, which I propose to rename as Russia, there the FSB, and we have the FSB Security Service. That would be right. So today we have a unique situation where we have a very different focus. Unfortunately, the commission did not offer a way out of this gas well by diversifying the gas sector, but it did not answer the question of who braked, who hindered the negotiations in Moscow? And that's Miller's statement. He had to be asked to give an official response to the Ukrainian Parliamentary Commission that blocked the agreements. The commission could answer the question when the gas was 179.5, and when would it be 50? Who led to his becoming 179.5. Isn't the leader of your faction running the government? And where did the difference between the 550 dollars for which the gas was sold to Russia and the 179.5 that came to Ukraine? Where did the money go? Where did they go? Ukraine did not get anything out of it. Hence, the fear of losing the most powerful source of funding for its violent political activities has evidently caused the hystericalness we have seen here. I'd like us to stay focused, first of all, on how we can start extracting our gas today. Not the Wenko project where Mr. Ahemtov's SKM is involved, as well as the Firmash company, as well as the X citizens, I don't know who it is, but the citizen of Ukraine X and some other companies. Why are they blocking the development of Ukrainian gas crops today? Because it is certainly not the “Gazprom” that has had “Rosukre Energo” here with his hands today. "Rosukreenergo" as much supply as possible. So no diversification program, no energy conservation in Ukraine. But first of all, it's terrible, really, corruption. And what we've heard today is the expression of this corrupt pyramid, the word expression, and there's also a monetary expression that obviously needs to be counted today. I would like us in Ukraine to know all the citizens of X, I Greek and Jot who are robbing Ukraine. They are indeed enemies of the nation, enemies of the state, and there is no need for nationalism here. That's not where it's from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u93	Oleg Laszko, faction of the “Blanket of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u94	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. The draft decision of the Supreme Council, proposed by a member of the interim commission of inquiry, because, as we have heard, six out of nine members of the Commission are proposing not to consider this project, stated in paragraph 3: “Acknowledgment that the breakdown of negotiations on contract making has caused serious consequences for the economic and political interests of the State, the material situation of Ukrainian and foreign enterprises, and the interests of citizens.” But the authors of the project are modestly facilitating, and who caused these contracts to be broken, the signing of these contracts, why Ukraine was gas-free from Russia by January 19, 2009. The prime minister of the Russian Federation, Vladimir Putin, and the head of Gazprom, of Russia's Miller, answered this question, who clearly and unequivocally indicated that the company itself, RosUkre Energo, had led to the collapse of the negotiations, offering conditions that were notoriously inconvenient to the country, but which resulted in the collapse of the negotiations. Why did this company do this? Because it's losing its ability to earn -- and it's lost because of the Timoshenko government -- the ability to make billions of dollars in private pockets, while transferring debt to Ukraine and putting Ukraine as one that owes Russia gas. Why do our opponents spit in saliva because Ukraine has a gas deal with Russia? But because we have a 10-year contract, not every year we sit and think about it at the end of the year, but whether there will be gas or not, and at what price; and the second, because the agreement without intermediaries, and all the money that Ukraine earns will go to the State Budget, and the State Budget to pay wages, pensions, to pay social benefits, not in the private pockets of a particular group of people, not to fund the opposition political party, which then, by reaching power, will return the middleman to the gas market again. That's why both the President and the Party of Regions are condemning gas contracts. Why? Because the President made billions of dollars on a gas pipe through his relatives and the Party of Regions through Firthash and the company. And notice, there are no members from the Party of Regions who are directly linked to the “Rosukreenergo” to the damage to the country today. Because they're not interested in the fate of the country, they're not interested in how the price of the enterprise gets gas, they're interested in how to break the deal, and they're interested in coming back to this gas pipe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u95	People's Deputy Mojcan, faction of Yulia Timoshenko. What, what? [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u96	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, I am surprised, first of all, by the way in Ukraine's second attack of planned, strategically designed Ukraine, by those who had to defend the interests of Ukraine -- they were representatives of parliament. And when I heard on the "Inter" channel, Vladimir Mikhailovich, where you were present, and where the head of the Interim Investigation Commission was a powerful spokesman of another state, I felt, as today, that they were representatives of the State Duma of Russia, who were defending the interests of a foreign state. I didn't see any Russian channels, and at this time I was looking at everyone literally not to attack the Ukrainian, just the Ukrainian, whether he's east or west. We were all made enemies, consistently, on a running tape, with stories, with everything. There were no oranges, there were no white-blues, there were Ukrainians and the Ukrainian was an enemy, the Ukrainian was a thief. They formed a consciousness that could already be activated tomorrow after Medvedev formed the SND’s armed forces. It's an alternative because it's a Europe block of protection, where Russia's efforts prevented us from being released when we were left defenseless. When the Muraviovs arrive, this is a recent event, 90 years old. They won't ask where Anna is, where's Vitaly, where's Vladimir? They'll all be Ukrainians. And you know very well how many innocent people were shot in Kiev itself. Does history teach you anything? Look, look, look! I understand the special role of FSB representatives, they're sitting here in the Party of Regions, we know them by name, they come out here. But the head. The head of the commission of inquiry, you're not! You were there, you were here, you were in the middle. Surprisingly, you will not be protected by Firthash, who is not a citizen of Ukraine. He was openly on the channel where you were sitting, giving yourself brightly, telling who he was serving and how he was attached to the Gazprom. Well, these lessons can't be important to us to understand that we're defending and defending national interests, not the way your party representative did when he was talking about the weapons that went through the tracts to Georgia. So let us learn those lessons that we had and adopted so that we do not repeat them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u97	Dear colleagues, we are. I saw it, now we are. Let's do it this way. Well, one minute. Let us see how we can complete this consideration. Now, Alexander Efraemov is going to be a replica, and then I'm going to be the Minister of Fuel and Energy for one minute, and three minutes is the head of the completion committee, and we're going to decide on the decision. Alexander Sergiyevich, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u98	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. You know, respectable colleagues! I will not understand the hysteria of the ruling coalition on this issue. And since it is, perhaps what is reflected in the Commission’s material has affected the most painful. We are not saying that the current Prime Minister, in the past, the leader of the Single Energy Systems, has twice robbed the whole country with such a series of figures that it is even difficult to present to a person who is actually reasonable and understanding something in mathematics. But to link us to a company that has a whole party or a whole faction, a company that is friendly, especially with the orange bloc, and is constantly spending its time in the President's Secretariat, which is not mentioned by representatives of the ruling coalition. We have great doubts. Dear colleagues, you'll find out in your camp, you'll understand each other, you'll figure out your own team and don't fold.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u99	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u100	And don't make trouble with your headaches. We understand what we're doing. We know where your violations are, and we'll be sure to transfer the files of the commission to the Attorney General's Office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u101	Fuel and Energy Minister Yuri Prodan. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u102	Dear Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished national deputies, of course, after receiving a draft ruling prepared by the relevant commission, may be said to propose a decision by the Ukrainian Parliament, which in most of its parts protects the Russian national interests and interests of RosUkrenergo. Ladies and gentlemen, fortunately, the actions of the government, the actions of the Minpalevenergo, the Naftobaz NAK were concerted and professional and aimed at protecting Ukraine's national interests, and as a result today we have one of the lowest prices in 2009 in Europe for gas supply. A $1.6 per 1,000 m3 per 100 km for Russian natural gas transit was broken by the year 2010. And this is the decision of Minpalevenergo, which Mrs. Bogoslovska was talking about, and it wasn't a contract breaker, it was just an extension and a price of gas. And thanks to this decision, since 2010, we're going to have an increase of 1.6 times the Russian natural gas transit rate. There are transparent, direct, market-free pricing conditions for gas supply and transit rates in Ukraine. The international image of Ukraine has been substantially elevated. You know that the European Commission has welcomed contracts for gas transit and gas supply as a guarantee of transit reliability for the long term. And finally, I would like to say that Ukraine's gas transport system has demonstrated its extraordinary reliability in its extreme working conditions. The high professionalism of the Naftogazu NAK workers, which we should thank today. Thank you, distinguished national MPs! So I suggest you don't support that decision, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u103	Please, Inna Hermanovna Bogoslovska – three minutes to cheat. Dear colleagues! We're going to the Rules, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u104	And I want to remind you that it was the first thing I wanted to do to make a normal report. Since the earth is already burning under your feet, you have failed to report, but at the gate the hat is on fire, and so as of today the whole of Ukraine will know who is to blame for the first time in the history of transportation of the Ukrainian gas transport system Ukraine 21 days was gas-free, Europe 21 days was gas-free and now billions of debts. I said it was gas-free because Ukrainian officials: the Cabinet of Ministers, Naftogaz and Minpalevenergo -- had banned the transport of Russian gas by Ukrainian territory. For these reasons, this is the decision of the Ukrainian Court, signed the Mintopa suit and signed the letter “Naftogaz”. So no matter how you look up to the sky, to all of you, the faction that now supports these thieves will be, too. We need to answer to our own people, as well as to the European people. It's such a shame and such a shame. And my friends, who are part of the Lithuanian Block, I'm ashamed that you're supporting these thieves. Here you go. Oleg, you don't treat friends, so you don't have a line. And after what you've done here and called a faction that represents two thirds of the Ukrainian industry, a gas fraction, it's already coming out of fear, it's honorable. That's what you're so afraid of, because, frankly, handcuffs are the basis for wearing them in two days. It's simply a question of whether the will of our guardians who sit and also feed on either one of our hands or the other. It's terrible what you've done with the country. And what you're saying right now, Minister of Fuel and Energy, is you're not ashamed to say that as a result of these events, Ukraine has increased its international image. How else does your tongue come back to say that? Barrose. In the report we brought you direct quotations from the first officials of the European Union, where they said that Ukraine had received such a loss of international image that it would take years to regain confidence somehow. This is done with your hands. And the fact that industry now has $530 worth of gas is done with your hands. You're destroying your own country and you can't answer that. History and people will punish you. He'll punish you! And you know it, and that's why it's so loud today. [[B in m in s a l in]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u105	Dear colleagues! We're done here. The Zarubinian Oleg was mentioned, please, as a replica. All the other names you didn't mention, don't mention names, be higher than that, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u106	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I will be absolutely tolerant. I just want to say that the huge problem is when a political deputy is an unscrupulous lobbyist of a corporation. And when that happens, we hear emotions, we hear hysteria and stuff. The MP must defend the interests of the electorate, not a particular business, even perhaps a very large corporation. This is the first facility. The other one. You know, I'm once again convinced that the work of any commission of inquiry should take place on a professional basis. When these political statements are replaced by real analysis, real predictions, real proposals, no one needs them. Unfortunately, today we have seen this one more time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u107	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Question completed. I want to say that we should probably draw everyone's conclusions when we were looking at the previous reports and the commissions that worked for the National Bank and today's commission, we were counting on the truth to be established. But we've found that we've got last night: we've got political accounts going on, we don't want any truth, and we don't care what people feel, and we don't even have a gas transport system. Because the question was, "The State of the Gas Transport System." Have you heard the word? No! No! And gas supplies to consumers. Inna Hermanovna! I've done everything I can to make sure that you consider this question. And please do not follow the principle of a well-known policy: “The arguments are weak – raise the voice.” Don't move, please. [[Applause]] It is quite obvious that we should ask, honourable colleagues, to ask the commission to carry out a detailed non-politicized work and to give us a final report on the terms of both the Supreme Council's Rules and our decisions. So I'd like to ask my respectable colleagues to give up politics on both sides, not to blame each other or to demonize each other's names. We call the names here which have no relation at all to the Supreme Council. Let's talk about what we have to demonstrate, what's true. And I want to focus on that, and I think that both the chairman of the commission and the members of the commission agree with this idea. Now for the draft decision that is proposed. It's a draft decision. I'll make an announcement. Of course. Roman Mikhailovich, I haven't told you what this is about. Wait a minute, wait a minute! There's a motion for a ruling. Dear colleagues! The Supreme Council of Ukraine, when deciding on the previous report, is obviously taking an assessment in the form of a draft decision on the previous report as we have done before, and the treatment of the draft Order may vary. So now we have to look at a project that can. I'll give you one minute. Roman Mikhailovich, let me finish. When the question is being considered, it can be brought up as an institution that is responsible for the consideration of this issue, I mean in this case, the TSC, or the National MP. Is that what I'm saying? In this case, the project has been introduced by the Ukrainian National Deputy, and it has been fixed, not by the head of the TSK, but by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Other God’s Word. And now we have to make a decision on this. By procedure, Roman Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u108	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I am speaking out of the procedure because there is a strange article in the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine that regulates the consideration and, by the way, the decision-making of the Interim Inquiry Commission report, this is 83 articles. And according to this article, we can make just conclusions, decisions, more loyally, according to the Interim Investigation Commission. In order for us to do so, they must exist in nature, which requires that the commission itself decide on its own conclusions. The draft decision, which is made by the subject of the legislative initiative in this case, is the Ukrainian national deputy, who happens to be the head of this commission, cannot be considered in the context of the question itself, which is the report of the Interim Commission of Inquiry. This may be a separate legislative initiative, but in the context of this issue, it cannot be considered. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u109	Goodima, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u110	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I have a specific proposal to get out of this situation. The information provided by the People’s Deputy of Other God’s Word is taken into account, for we cannot refuse it back and oblige the Commission to continue working on a temporary special basis and to present a full report at the time indicated by the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u111	Ladies and gentlemen, let's make this decision, you all have logic, and in order to find out here, one minute, in order to find an understanding, because we've had these problems when we're considering the reports of other committees, and we're already going to set a precedent, I'd like to say that if a group of deputies working on the committee doesn't agree with the very establishment of the question of how to deal with it in plenary mode, and from this point of view, the decision of the Supreme Council was taken, they could go ahead and inform the day of this decision. This morning, I met with the head of the Temporary Special Commission of the Other God’s Witnesses, received a preliminary report, and we discussed suggestions on the subject. If you thought it was necessary and came out that the decision wasn't made, you wouldn't agree, you could have warned me about it. But the question is, we're in the process of being considered. So today I can only proceed to put to the vote the decision that our colleague and chairman of the Temporary Special Commission have proposed, if it is not adopted, we will make a protocol decision to take the information to the knowledge, the commission works in accordance with the Supreme Council Rules. But in addition to everything else, we're going to write down another decision that we're going to be monitoring and receiving all the relevant documents for the Supreme Council's review of the Interim Commission report. And I'd like to ask the appropriate committee of ours, I'm talking about the rules, the MPs, the organizations and the jobs, and I'd like to make my own conclusions about whether we can consider the report of a committee or not, and we, I think we're going to get out of this commission. Do you agree with this question? So I will now put to the vote a proposal for adoption on the basis of the Ukrainian Supreme Council Project on the previous report of the Interim Investigation Commission on the state of play of the Ukrainian gas transport system and the provision of gas to consumers in 2008-2009, registration number 4031, on the basis of. I'd like to make up my mind. Based on the base. [[12:04:28]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask of you, honourable Members of the People's Parliament, let us take a protocol decision with you, the commission, in accordance with the terms of the Rules, continues to work. The commission has to prepare and submit a report and an appropriate draft decision, but this draft decision, let's also be aware today that it has to meet the basic requirements. Because if the commission proposes the following paragraph: “The Attorney General's Office, the Security Service, to file criminal cases.” We don't have the right to do that, we can hand it over to the Attorney-General to establish the facts, but by established fact, to make the decision. So I would ask that these documents, which will be prepared by all without exception by the temporary commissions, be conducted with appropriate expertise in our Main Committee on these matters, the Committee on the Rules of Conduct of the Parliamentary Ethics of the Supreme Council's Labour Organization. I mean, are we making this protocol decision? This applies to all other committees. Well, please sign up for 3 minutes or 5 minutes. Please sign up. Dear colleagues, we will continue our work for five minutes so that the national deputies will be able to speak if there is no objection. Please, it's been recorded. It's got a name tag on it. Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u112	Thank you, Your Honor. The Communist faction Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, this is a strange situation. You and I have decided that on Fridays we will regularly listen to reports from the committees, previous reports, and reports from the committees we have made with you. The previous report took place. The discussion took place. There's a draft decision. Then it's not clear why we don't accept it, why some of our colleagues, let's say, didn't vote in favour of this document, don't vote in favour of it, especially because it was proposed as a basis. And there is good reason to make any changes to this document. Because it's different that we've talked and the conversation itself is more important to us than trying to solve the situation than trying to make some decision that's moving us forward. So, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, let's try again, taking into account the discussion that will take place, to vote on this document in order to complete the consideration of this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u113	Another Bogoslovak, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u114	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! I don't take any charges about not preparing the report. I'm so sorry to hear that. Unfortunately, not only has Ukraine ceased to be the country where the most people read, but Parliament has already become a place where no one wants to read but only voices. But I know exactly what we read the previous report last night, because what we have here today is that, in fact, all the facts in this report, you're not going anywhere from them are documents, statements, contracts, hard numbers. And they mean that the thief should be in jail. Those who have led the country to such a state that we were out of gas for 20 days, those who have led Ukraine to now accept billions of lawsuits from those who have suffered should be responsible for what they are in the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u115	Katerina Vaschuk, Lithuanian Block faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u116	Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u117	Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u118	Dear colleagues, I have just read this report, with sufficient attention. And you know, I read it in the front, in the back, but the answer to the question is why the work of the commission is dedicated.? Once again, I want to say that the state of functioning of Ukraine's gas transport system and the provision of gas to consumers, there is no word on all of these pages of the brochure on the state of functioning of Ukraine's gas transport system. This is a key issue today. Is that not understandable? I realize that it's not a political issue, that they can't be challenged in a session hall, that it's hard to pry, because it's a professional, professional question. Someone can't do this professionally, please get the experts. But the report of the commission should be about the state of the Ukrainian gas transport system. So I think I should accept the proposal to strengthen just the meaningful professional part.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u119	Sergey Sas, faction of the Timoshenko Yulia Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u120	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! We heard a report from the Interim Investigation Commission. In accordance with article 88, part 3, of the Rules, the Supreme Council may make the following decisions as a result of hearing the report, conclusions, and suggestions made by the High Council. To conclude that the Supreme Council did not make a decision. The other one. Or suspend the mandate of the Interim Investigation Commission. Third. Or proceed with the commission of inquiry. I propose to put to the vote the question of the suspension of commission, given the circumstances. And last of all, for the transcript. Vladimir Mikhajlovich, commission of inquiry by the decision to create the next commission, was created by March 13. Therefore, if the proposal to terminate the commission is not supported, I ask that the commission be instructed to report by 13 March, that is, by the end of the commission’s term of office. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u121	Thank you. Colleague Arzewittin passes on the right to speak to Lilia Stépanovny Grigorovitch. Please, Lilia Stepanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u122	Lilia Grigorovich, MP “For Ukraine!” Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! It's so sad for the end. I think those who are listening to high-pitched television today think whether it's a theater in front of a microphone or a parliament. And it's very simple. Ukrainian, two pseudo - Ukrainian pseudoelites who grew up on gas continue to fight for gas. The group “For Ukraine! ” has not heard a word about national interests. Just one group defended the interests of another nation by 200 percent and the other by 95. We don't need commissions like that. Or the commission will answer the question of how it affected the citizen, the enterprise, the national budget, the national image at the end of the day, and not the theater in front of the microphone, or simply obviously the composition of the commission should be changed and the questions raised about national interest answered. Regrettably, pseudoelites who grew up in a pseudogasm cannot do that.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u123	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts. And in fact, we've come together to take a preliminary report. But I would ask that we continue to organize the work so that the commissions that we create can give us a full report, and then we will decide on the evaluation of their activities, because the Rules do not provide for a previous report, but the Supreme Council of Ukraine has made such a decision on the previous report. And you know it. So let's agree that we're taking the information to the known, and the commission is on schedule, and the deadline is until March 13th, it's going to report. If the report is prepared in advance, we will determine when to consider it, and then we will make decisions on the proposals made by the commission and on the actual fate of the commission itself. No other warnings? Therefore, the matter has been discussed. Dear colleagues, there's a break to 12. Dear colleagues, I'll tell you what it takes for a break, because there are no deputies now, and I need to go to the National Security and Defence Council meeting to address this issue. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Here's the offer to us. What? No, it's 12:30. Dear colleagues, the suggestion was that we continue our work until the morning session was concluded. I'm going to put up, there's an offer, we're going to put these proposals to the vote. I'm asking you, Your Honor, to support me. I am voting on the proposal of the national MP Hanna Herman to continue the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine until the conclusion of the consideration of the issues identified by the schedule for today, taking into account the need for ratification and other issues raised in the proposals of honourable colleagues. Please vote. [[12:14:35]] For-22. People’s Honourable Deputies, 22 / 22 A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 40 minutes. And as soon as I got the information that, indeed, the National Security and Defence Council meeting on this issue was postponed to Tuesday. But you didn't support the offer. Break up to 12 hours 40 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u124	Dear colleagues, we continue our morning plenary session. A draft regulation on the report of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to investigate the causes of the death of a 17-year-old child in Kramatorské Donetské region and to establish mass complications following vaccination against measles and rubella among the population of the Donetsk region, as well as to verify the correct application of the vaccine, which was carried out with the vaccinations. I invite you to Victor Petrovich Korja's report.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u125	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, citizens of Ukraine! I'd like to distract you from the gas issues and point out that the question that we're going to consider right now has no political color. It is the health of our young people, the health of our children, the future of the Ukrainian people. The question of the temporary commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council to investigate the causes of the death of a 17-year-old in Kramatorsk was already under consideration in this room. I would just like to remind you that the analysis of the results of clinical, pathological and anatomical tests, laboratory tests and expert findings, which are the leading experts in our country, indicates that a number of gross violations have been committed in the organization and conduct of additional immunization. The commission also found that Anton Tishchenk’s death and the mass health complications among the population in the Donetsk region were directly linked to an additional immunization campaign. Its conduct is deemed to be pointless, scientifically unwarranted, and not in conformity with current legislation. In this connection, I would like to say that the findings of the committee are based on the findings of a group of experts from the Academy of Medical Sciences who unanimously acknowledged the results of their studies. This data is also supported by leading specialists, who are the head of the department of immunology from all the leading institutions in our country. And this, by the way, is confirmed by the Attorney General's Office, who, for days, transferred a criminal case to 100 volumes in court. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that both the Minister and his deputies, who took part in the summary session of our committee and the commission of inquiry, have accepted virtually all violations. I'm an appropriate stenographer for this session. And I'm very sorry that, again in public today, they're saying absolutely reverse things. Although it has been admitted that this vaccine cannot be used, I believe it is a great victory for our commission of inquiry. I'd like to draw your attention to the fact that even the translation of the vaccine instructions did not match the manufacturer's instructions, it's unauthentic with regard to the safety of its use and the warnings available. I would like to point out that all of this could lead to enormous complications for pregnant women, and that would have a lot of other negative consequences. The vaccine in question did not carry out appropriate clinical-epidemic tests and state registration. Instead of making the appropriate conclusions that the members of the commission had been promised, and this included changes to the legislation of the Ministry of Health’s two basic laws. And it was a calendar that needed urgent changes, and it was, in the end, a national population immunization programme that just doesn't exist in our country. Instead of doing all these things that we have agreed on in a professional, normal environment, the Ministry of Health has only been trying for six months to get away from the existing set of abuses that unfortunately have become the norm of life in this department. Scientists, experts, are ignored, and it's based on the idea and supply of questions from the WHO workers who actually delivered this vaccine to our country. During the time that followed the tragedy, there was no proposal from the Department of Profiles to further address this very important issue. And I'd like to mention once again that a whole series of legislative other normative issues remain unsettled. Regrettably, the Ministry’s active activity today is aimed only at the abuse and corruption of millions of citizens, as evidenced by the infamous findings of the Court of Auditors. As a result, drug purchases under programmes: “Oncology”, “Tuberculosis”, “AlDS”, “Divisional Sclerosis” and other amounts of funds have been up tens of times in the past year alone. According to our data, in this year's well-known budget deficit, the department's departments only purchased, in January 2009 as a matter of urgency, vaccines for the prevention of pertussis, diphtheria, stem from a foreign producer that exceeds the domestic price of 69 million dollars; a vaccine for the prevention of pertussis, diphtheria and polio -- by 79 million dollars. Think about it, this one - time supply of vaccines alone has caused the state to lose nearly 150 million dollars. I emphasize that similar domestic vaccines have been certified and tested in our country. That's the answer, what the Ministry is excited about today, and we have to make the right conclusions with you. I believe that under such circumstances a valid minister does not have the moral right to be in office. I would like to emphasize that if this vaccine was carried out in the full range of colossal violations, with the right statistics of even a manufacturing plant, we would lose 20 children with you. Dear colleagues, I insist on the entirely objective, honest and professional conclusions of our temporary commission and ask you to take an honest civil position as well and support the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine that you are offered. This will allow us to make a substantial improvement in the situation of immunoprophylactics, to prevent abuse and abuse in this area, to return to the issue of quality testing of medicines and vaccines, and to stop the practice of buying drugs and vaccines dozens of times, which ultimately led to an increase in medicines throughout our drug network. And today we have a complete paralysis of research into the quality of drugs and vaccines. All of this will lead to a stream of counterfeiting and will not be tolerated. Dear colleagues, I have violated the very important public significance of the matter. I ask you to support the Supreme Council's ruling. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u126	Thank you, Victor Petrovich, sit down. Since this issue has already been discussed with us, it has been the subject of discussion, today we only have to adopt a decision because it has been put to work, a specific decision. For reasons, please write this down. Herman Hanna Mikolayevna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u127	Dear colleagues, we all need to support this motion together. It is very important that Parliament has played such a positive role in establishing justice in such a difficult case in which I am convinced that the very important interests of those who have tried to hide the matter and this tragedy are somewhere behind their business interests. We must show our high awareness here and show that Parliament will always stand for justice, regardless of who proposes the draft decree and which faction this person belongs to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u128	Thank you. Samolica Katerina Seminovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u129	Thank you very much. I want to support my colleague in that sense. I think that the question that we have just heard should unite the entire room, regardless of our party membership, is the civil position, there is the future of our children and there is a crime, please, but it's called crime, it's a state crime. And I want to talk to everyone. We don't have to remove any points from this decision. All points are very appropriate, and they demand the personal responsibility of those responsible for the death of our children. And what I'm saying is, even in a nightmare, I can't imagine in Soviet times killing so many people from negligence or some kind of business, sorry, please, interests, and not responding to it. We'll be with you. I think it'll be a shame.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u130	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u131	I think it's really gonna be a shame for every defender and Supreme Council of Ukraine if they abstain from voting for this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u132	Grigorovich Lila Stepanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u133	Please pass the word to Karpuk Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u134	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense", group "For Ukraine". Although the reporter was talking about how we need to get away from some political situation, from the charges, but most of his report was not about the Kramatorsky case, but about the corruption of solicitous purchases that are not related to the topic. And there is much to be said about previous substitutes. I want to say that those who joined the commission are also involved in signing the UNICEF agreement that provided humanitarian assistance from this vaccination. In the absence of time, I want to say that the decision really needs to be made, but I recommend that paragraphs two and three of this decision be deleted. Why? We write, recommend to the Attorney General's Office a legal evaluation. It's already done. In the Attorney General’s Office, this case has been dealt with, but unfortunately no conclusion has been reached so far.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u135	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u136	And the second question. Considering that the vaccinations carried out resulted in a fatal accident, the expert commission of the Ministry of Health. The great scientific and practical conference that took place on February 3rd where there were over 120 professors of experts do not directly link this tragedy to this company. That's why paragraph three has to be ruled out. And in general, the word “massively” has to be deleted.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u137	Scubenko Volodymyr Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u138	Dear colleagues! I believe that, in all our political opposition, the death of a child can never be justified. That's the first one. Second. Money has never been more precious, a person’s life, especially a person who enters into life, is always more precious. And the third most important point, the system should not produce such results. To date, parents depend very much on the vaccines they impose on us today or promote television. I will say that the situation that is now involved in this regulation and in this commission should be slightly expanded and extended to all medicines that are being shipped to Ukraine. And through that advertisement, people are being forced to do so today. I believe that this is unacceptable and that the work of the Commission that has been done today needs to be extended and extended a little. Expand to the full realization of the problem that exists today in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u139	Thank you. I'm putting it to a vote, I'm voting on the basis of a draft ruling on the report of the Interim Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to investigate the causes of the death of a 17-year-old in Kramatorské Donetské region. Registration number 2734, please identify yourself. [[12:55:16]] For 205 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party - 164, Timoshenko Yulia Block - 15, Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense - 1, Communists - 25, Litvina Block - 0. For reasons, please write down the reasons for the vote. Kryskov Eugene Igorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u140	Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u141	Adam Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u142	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I think after such a vote, we have to stay here forever. Because I don't know how we're going to look at people where we're in the same spot. There's absolutely no politics here. Although, unfortunately, some political forces think it's a policy, unfortunately, it's not a policy -- it's a child's death is there, a screaming one, and we all have children, grandchildren and tomorrow, after tomorrow, today, unfortunately, it can happen again. We were no longer elected to the Supreme Council to be so cynical here. I propose that the results of the vote be published in the Voice of Ukraine, so that every voter can see how we care for them.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u143	Welder Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u144	May I have a word with you, Vladimir Karpuk?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u145	Vladimir Karpuk. In fact, sometimes when a problem arises again in the country and there is much to talk about. I want to say that last year, 127 children who were not vaccinated died of chicken meningitis. And that's a very difficult question. The question, indeed, of national security. I'm saying that there's a criminal case a long time ago. I myself have written to the Attorney General's Office that a criminal case has been instituted and that the investigation has been completed and all the sentences have been punished. But it is not for experts to decide whether this is a direct link or not. Another thing I want to say is that the conference held by the Ministry of Health made a fairly wise and balanced decision on the inability to complete additional immunization of the population against measles and rubella in 2009 because of the lack of willingness of society.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u146	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u147	The use in Ukraine during 2009 of measles and rubella vaccine as humanitarian aid. An additional study of the situation with bark and rubella is being carried out because in 2010-2011 an epidemic is expected again and then to draw conclusions and so forth. And you don't really have to do the same thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u148	Vladimir Bondarenko, Timoshenko Yuli Block. I'd like to take any policy out of this, and she's here. I'd like to say that this is such an important issue for Ukraine to produce a system of vaccinations that would have prevented such a possibility of purchasing inconvenient products, as well as such clumsy uses. At the same time, I would like to point out that this faction, as it suggests not to leave this room, has a minister in his environment who has been sitting there recently in the ministry and where these purchases have been. The second faction, which calls on everyone to take revenge there and so forth, should remember that until recently there was another minister of health, who is now taking care of national security, where Kramatorskik began to be called “Tramadolski” in the people. So I want to point out that we have a unique situation of collective responsibility for so many people, and we don't have to bring it all together and blame it on today's Ministry. So let the commission rework
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u149	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u150	Let the commission rework. And first of all, I'm interested in the effectiveness of the commission in proposing a plan of action, not a plan of revenge, or a plan of bloody execution. This is the commission's plan of action, and we will gladly consider and approve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u151	Efraemov Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u152	Thank you, Alexander Vladimirovich. In general, I am ashamed to listen to such statements and to the decision we have not taken so far and cannot be determined on this matter. I would like to give the floor to Tatiana Bachtewa, who will respond professionally to these questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u153	Aunt Dmitrovna Bachteev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u154	Dear colleagues, this is the second time we have considered this issue. I very much ask to be objective, honest and orderly in this matter and to view the pain of others as my pain. Because a child died on the twenty-second thousand vaccinations, and as my colleague Prederiy says, and if nine million were vaccinated with this Indian vaccine, which was not registered, which had not passed the clinical trials, one hundred and fifty children would die, including perhaps yours would be there, or relatives, or acquaintances, and how you would react then. Therefore, that vaccination was wrong and unnecessary for our country was said by all the people's deputies, 15 members of the commission. The fact that a criminal case is currently open in the Attorney-General's Office indicates that there are questions and support for the ruling, and that we are simply obliged to work with our colleagues today and not to be indifferent. Yes, this situation today has affected the morale of our citizens, the authority of the medics, but we continue today.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u155	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u156	including, and the Ministry of Health, that vaccination alone is the only way to combat very important and rare infectious diseases. Vaccination is necessary, but it takes responsibility. The vaccine should be quality but not Indian. It's not supposed to be an experiment in our country, we shouldn't take those kind of supplies. We can buy a vaccine from French production, as Europe buys and vaccines, and we are obliged to do so. It was only the Commission that decided not to continue the vaccination and therefore would not continue because its expiration date ended in March 2009. So be objective, support the work of your colleagues. It's the right thing to do. We don't need to plant anyone, not shoot anyone, absolutely, to make the right objective decision because a child died, a 17-year-old child, because of vaccination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u157	Thank you. Dear colleagues, two proposals have been made for reasons of vote, a proposal to publish the results of the vote in the newspaper Voice of Ukraine and a proposal to return to the vote. I'm asking you to put your hands down, because that's not how we work, we only have a record, and according to what we're supposed to do, we're taking part in the discussion. I'm betting on the vote to go back to the vote on this question. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:03:54]] For 204 The decision is not taken. By factions, please, the Party of the Regions – 168, the Block of July Timoshenko – 11, Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense – 0, Communists – 25, the Block of Lithuania – 0. And the second proposal, which was made by Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, will publish the results in the newspaper Voice of Ukraine. I'm putting this motion to a vote. [[13:04:33]] For-191 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, according to the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from 1 p.m. on Friday, we have “Vizne”. At the morning plenary meeting, when the organization of our work was discussed, there was a proposal, a request that we ratify an international treaty today, according to the fact that our delegation is going to the country with which this treaty is signed. This question is not included in the meeting schedule. That's why I'm asking the people's deputies to identify themselves. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda for today's session and the postponement of the appropriate time for the start of the “Varison” on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia on the promotion and mutual protection of investments. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:05:46]] For 222 The decision is not taken. Please register with the “Victane”. Bondarenko Volodymyr Dmitrovic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u158	Vladimir Bondarenko “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear friends, radio listeners, I would like to draw attention to the recent events in Kiev, which unfortunately are not being responded to by the higher authorities of the government, as well as by the Prosecutor's Office and the Ukrainian Security Service. This is about the totally inadequate work of the city’s Kiev head, which produces various decisions, decisions, and ideas that produce real images. These include tariffs for organizations operating in Kiev. That's the whole question that's in the knowledge of the city's head. There is no attitude toward government. At the same time, in the pyar space, Mr. Czerniewecki is also told by his associates that this government is forcing them to raise tariffs. There's nothing like that. This is the result of the totally free management situation introduced by Leonid Mikhailovich in Kiev, when there is no order in urban systems, when huge resources are being stolen there, because the company that serves Kiev is in Cyprus. By the way, the representatives of the largest parliamentary faction should know and understand that this company is operated by the person in your faction. So I wonder why some of the problems that have long been solved in Kiev have not been solved. The president of Ukraine pretends that he wants to put order in place, cancels the completely inadequate tariffs that Chernevski has imposed, seems to be the fifth time. On the same day or after the day, Chernewsky changes his decision, lowers it by 5 copies, by 7 copies, leaving these tariffs insurmountable. These tariffs destroy small businesses, destroy everything that's possible. And what I'd like to say is that this is a game where a good president and a scary mayor find common interest in this game, they have to find an evaluation, an evaluation first of all, I think, a sneeze. We need to remember what the voices of those who gave them were for, and what we received from that authority today. I would like to say that this is going to affect those who go to the clinics. Well, there's no paid medicine anywhere in Ukraine, and it's being introduced here. It's for maybe to have a budget bigger than in the state, as Chernewsky said. But you don't have to have this big budget, you have to pay a billion for gas, and you don't pay, you have to count with those who supply resources here, and you don't. And with your pianist, Leonid Mikhailovich, you will not close those holes in the city farm that were formed. Your admissions for $10,000 or $100,000 -- this is an absolute violation of the Constitution and laws of Ukraine. Today you have become the sword of Kiev, the thunderstorm of Kiev, but the thunderstorm is stupid and wild and uncontrollable. We need to stop this vacchanal in Kiev! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u159	Kravchenko Mikola Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u160	Cowchenko, the Communist faction. Respectable voters, respectable colleagues! From 23 to 31 January, protests took place in Donetsk. And on 31 January, the final final action was the eight thousandth protest in the form of a protest and rally. At that meeting, for the first time, a decision was taken calling on the Supreme Council to initiate the President's impeachment. Why did the Donans ask such a question? The fact is that in the Donetsk region today, with the assistance of the President, its pressure on regional leadership has become the centre of nationalist policy in the field. Think about it. Nine monuments are desecrated. To date, 56 monuments have been placed on the victims of famine. I'm not talking about the actions they're trying to do by planting this famine. The industry itself is now close to famine. Why? Because production is falling, wages are not nearly paid to miners. To date, if no action is taken, the area is doomed. And you should know that this is an area that gave 12 per cent of Ukraine's domestic gross product. That is why we have planned and warned the leadership of the area, and today we declare that we continue this action on 16 February and will begin to block roads in the centre of the city with West to the district administration. I would like to say that today's vote on this case, on the death of the little boys, here, let Karpuku, the false doctor who is twisting the situation today, twists and hides what money, of course, is incomprehensible, hides what can eventually happen to everyone. We're fed what we got today, and we're being treated for what we got today. To date, Karpuk needs to know that insulin has not been purchased today for our diabetics. Therefore, if we do not make a decision, it is not only because Knazević is a personal doctor of Yushchenko. That's why, that's what the price of the NS-NS policy is today. Therefore, respectable colleagues, we do not have a conscience. And if we have not been able to join the child in death, then we have a price as a parliament of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u161	The national MP of Kzarykov instead of Naydionov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u162	Honourable People's Deputies, Honourable Voters of Ukraine! I am speaking to you on behalf of the Voters of Clothing, on behalf of the entire group of the Ukrainian Danube Shipping, from the Association of the Danube Captains and the entire composition of the Ishmael City Council. This statement relates to the fact that almost 19 of Ukraine's ports and the status of the Ukrainian Sea Power are today the last enterprise that is still a carrier and was the number one carrier in 2008 is attempting to bankrupt. He's doing it persistently, he's doing it abruptly. Under the roof of both Mintrans and law enforcement personnel. The history of bankruptcy of enterprises such. In 2006, when Transport Minister Rudzikowski sent crisis managers from Lugansk Shipping, they had already named these persons, who had not even graduated from maritime education and had not lost 62 million bracelets. [[UDP chief financier at the time had a four-month distance education at Kharkiv courses]] And when they said in an open meeting of the collective that the State form of ownership for the Ukrainian Danube Shipping was a loss, I would like to add only two figures. At the time of the collapse of the Soviet Union, there were 200 vessels in the UDP. Of these, 70 were passengers, and the rest represented Ukraine as a Power in all European countries and in virtually all the seas of our Power. To date, think of the fact that only three ships are on board from the Ukrainian Danube Coast, and that the free politics of Minstrasses has led people to sit without fuel, without food and virtually no prospect of getting out of the crisis. And today, we will receive neither Faina nor two, and all of us will be taken hostage by the free Mintrans. I wanted to draw attention to another one — the enormous pressure of Samushina’s companion. This leader, who was appointed to serve as head of the Danube Shipping Authority in 2008, led the enterprise into the profit zone in the first half of the year, people began to receive wages, ships began to exit the MLC and to make some profits. However, under the pressure of Mintrans, he was forced to write a statement. And I'd like to put another emphasis on the point. You know, when you're taken to the parish or the manager's port manager, he turns out to be forced to write a clean statement, and I have the forms of those statements. Rudzkowski and Vinsky did it. And leave a free date only, number and for what reason. And he doesn't go into the port until he signs that statement with an empty date. That is the way they keep accounts today with the last pamaradour in our country. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u163	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u164	the security of Ukraine to verify the facts that I will attach to the appeal of the community and members of the city council, to send the commission there and to criminalize the forced bankruptcy of the State enterprise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u165	People's MP Mironenko is handing over his time to the Popescu People's Deputy and the Popescu People's Deputy uses his regulations for six minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u166	Thank you. The great colleagues, the distinguished voters of the Cherniew region, the great Ukrainian people. I want to give chronology today to one fact of the political repression of the era of Ukraine's new history. On January 24, 2007, Ukrainian citizen Duczak Vassil Stepanović was appointed head of the Derjeko inspection in the Montenegrin region. And according to the order of the Minn Nature of March 22, 2007, he began to carry out his duties. During the entire inspection period, she entered five of the best in Ukraine. And all of a sudden, on March 27, 2008, while in the hospital, he was suddenly relieved of his position by order of Minister Filipchuk at number 188-O. Vasil Stepanovich appealed to the court. The Order of the Court of Chernivci of 20 August 2008 annulled the order of the Ministry of the Interior for the release of Duček Vasil Stepanović and the decision to reinstate him as Head of Inspectorate of 27 March 2008. But the minister doesn't give up. Two months later, Command 513 established a commission to conduct an inspection of Duchak during his duties as Head of Inspection. According to the results of the test, the evidence was drawn up with false and entrenched facts for the purpose of the release of Duczek Vasil Stepanović. But at the same time, by decision of the court on 16 December 2008, Prime Minister No. 856-O took the compulsory reinstatement of Duček Vasil Stepanovich as Head of Inspectorate for the direct participation of the bailiff. Justice seemed to be, and it won. But it's not over yet. On December 29, 2008, the New Year’s Eve, by order of the minister, was removed from office by the first and first Deputy Chief of Inspectors on the basis of an official note by Mr. Trigubenko’s deputy minister. And on January 8th, 2009, on the basis of Prime Minister Philipchuk's order, number 1-O, a new service investigation was opened for Duczko Vasil Stepanovich, the head of inspection, to verify the facts of improper performance of his duties. And finally, on January 28th, without waiting for the results of this commission, at the order of the minister number 31-O, the organized second internship of a citizen of Tkako W.M., who happens to be the advisor of Minister Philippchuk, and guess what position? Of course, he's in charge of the inspection in the Chernobyl area. So it becomes clear that the minister is willing to release Duček Vasil Stepanovich and push his advisor into this position. The question is: What did Vasil Stepanovich Duczak not please? The answer is that he is a professional of his work. The principle of man is that he is an opportunity to engage in corruption, and the main problem is that he is a member of the Montenegrin City Council from the Party of Regions, and this anti-national government will not allow it in Western Ukraine. That's why we're asking the Attorney General to do this. Thank you for your attention. And I'll add the last one. Vasil Stepanovich said he would go to the end. If the issue is not resolved at the level of Ukraine, it will be brought before the European Court of Human Rights. Does this government, which says it is a pro-European one, need such a problem? It's purely for one honest person. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u167	Instead of the National Deputy of the Blacksmith, there is a national MP, Tarasjuk Boris Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u168	Boris Tarasyuk, National Movement of Ukraine, NUNS faction Dear colleagues, dear fellow countrymen! I have the honour to announce the address of the National Movement of Ukraine on the occasion of the 70th anniversary of the creation of the Carpathian Ukraine, which was approved by the National Movement of Ukraine on January 25. At the beginning of the spring, Ukraine will celebrate the 70th anniversary of the national nation-building event: on March 15, 1939, the Seima of Carpathian Ukraine declared the statehood of this historic Ukrainian land. The Carpathian Ukraine was the fourth attempt of our people in the twentieth century -- after the ZUNR, the UNR and the Gethmanatu -- to restore their own statehood. By the end of March 1939, however, the Carpathian Ukraine had been occupied by the predominantly and technically dominant forces of the Hungarian occupation. The government of Carpathian Ukraine led by Augustine Volosyn and formed by the patriots Carpathian Sich for the support of the local population was desperate, even though the forces were uneven. Despite the military defeat of Carpathian Ukraine, Ukraine has demonstrated the unbreakable will of the Ukrainians to freedom and independence. In connection with the great importance of the act of March 15, 1939, both for the whole state and for the Ukrainians, the Ukrainian People's Movement supports and welcomes the Presidential Decree on the 70th anniversary of the proclamation of the Carpathian Ukraine and the veneration of the heroic defenders of the red field. At the same time, we have to conclude that the artificially imposed problem, the so - called Russians in the Zacarpathian region, remains unresolved today. The people's movement has already addressed the Ukrainian Attorney General and Security Service on provocations and outright separatists in the Zakartat region, which threaten Ukraine's territorial integrity. The official start of the escalation of this dangerous phenomenon was made on March 7, 2007, when the Zacarpathian District Council adopted a decision on recognition of Russian nationality in the territory of the country. In the same spirit, the Zacarpathian District Council addressed the issue of acceptance of the flag of the area. It was strange to see a particular part of the MP's corps being controlled by the head of the President's Secretariat to approve as a flag the area of blue and white and red tricolour. And already on January 14th of this year, with uncharted cynicism, the Zacarpathian District Council approves the decision on budgetary financing of the newspaper Podkarpatski Rusin. The movement calls on the Supreme Council to immediately dissolve the Zacarpathian District Council, whose activities run counter to the interests of the Ukrainian people. To our conviction, the Zacarpathian District Council serves the 5th Column and makes decisions that actually lead to increased separatist moods in Ukraine. Please consider this request as a parliamentary request. We demand that the criminal responsibility of the organizers, the instigators be drawn.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u169	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u170	and active participants in the global gathering of the undercarpathian Russians and the National Council of the Rusins of the Carpathians with the simultaneous forced disbandment of these structures. Practically, the consolidation of the Ukrainian people, the preservation of historical memory and unity is the most effective resistance to the activation of provocations that openly fan the flames of hatred and separatism on Ukrainian lands. Carpage is Ukrainian land. Glory to the heroes of Carpathian Ukraine! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u171	People’s deputies, Dracz and Samofalov, pass their time on to the national deputy Koleshnenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u172	The Party of the Regions faction, Vadim Koleschenko. Respectable colleagues, Ukraine and Ukrainians are hardly the most affected during the Great Homeland War by the horrors of the Fascist regime. More than eight million Ukrainians were killed and tortured in concentration camps. That is why the special law of Ukraine on the perpetuation of victory in the Great Homeland War of 1941-45, which was adopted in 2000, established that the country had undertaken to abide by its international obligations to prevent any form of fascism in its territory, to prevent the falsification of the history of the Great Homeland War in scientific research, teaching and methodological literature, textbooks and the media. However, a number of Ukrainian politicians in power, in violation of UN norms and national legislation, have embarked on the rehabilitation of fascism and the attempt to build a nationalist state. With the current President Yushchenko, the State of Ukraine did not support the November Declaration of the United Nations Organization, the founding member of which we are the “Condemnation of Fascism and Fascist Cooperation”. The President's legislative initiatives to grant the National Liberation Movement to members of the UN-OPA, the active perpetrators of the genocide of Jews and Poles, the assignment of the name Hero Ukraine to the captain of the SS, awarded by the Iron Cross to Roman Shuhevic, and the attempt to award the State Prize for Stephen Bandera and the celebration of his birthday are only a few steps, the last in this direction. That is why, in accordance with the principles of the Charter and the resolution of the Organization of United Nations, the sentence and the statute of the Nuremberg Tribunal in the light of the millions of Ukrainians who gave their lives to fight against the fascism and memory of my father who burned in a tank in Belarus, protecting the Soviet Family from the German-Fashistic occupying forces, pursuant to the decision of the Sevastopol City Council, the Luhansk Regional and Urban, Harkov City and Regional, the Supreme Council of Crimea and other local authorities on preventing the Fascistization and Heroization of UN-OPA, I have introduced to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the Ukrainian Law on the Prohibition of the Rehabilitation and Heroization of Fascist Collaborators of 1933-45. It has already found support among the population of Ukraine. The bill will finally allow Ukraine to join the family of the peoples of Europe. I recall that, according to the laws of most civilized countries, the work of collaborators after the defeat of the fascists was recognized as treason. No European country has recognized as a feat or worthy of respect in its territory when the citizens of those countries were speaking with German-Fashistic occupations against their countries. To date, the activities of Fascist parties, organizations are prohibited in the constitutions of Bulgaria, Poland and Italy. Anti-fascist laws and laws criminalizing the non-recognition of Fascism crimes and attempts to rehabilitate collaborators, adopted in France, Portugal, Romania, Spain, Mexico, Switzerland, Sweden, Austria, Israel. Since 92, there has been a law in Austria that criminalizes fascism, their conduct for political and propaganda purposes that establishes up to 20 years'imprisonment. So what's the point of what we're talking about? Today, we are being tried to announce that some of the forest brothers fought the Communist regime and the Soviet Union for Soviet Ukraine or for independent Ukraine. I will recall the United Nations resolution adopted last November, which Ukraine refused to support, but which was voted on by the majority of the members of the United Nations. The UN stated: “UN expresses its deep concern at the glorification of the Nazi movement and former members of the WAFEN SS organization by declaring or attempting to declare such members and those who fought against, stress, the Anti-Hitler coalition or cooperated with the Nazi movement, members of the national liberation movement”. Thus, the myth that someone in Ukraine had fought against Soviet Russia or the Soviet Union had destroyed, allegedly, communists, and in fact destroyed young girls and boys who had been sent from all over the country, teachers, agronomists, technicians, to celebrate Bandera, Suhevic, for the purpose of creating Ukraine only for Ukrainians. They fought against the Soviet Union, which was a member of the Anti-Hitler coalition. That is why it is so important for us today to understand that we are in a State that is in violation of its own laws that have made and made commitments to the international community. I would like to recall that during the years of the world war, in fact, in every occupied country there were such organizations that were on the side of the fascist German side. Belgium, Denmark, Holland, Poland, France, Czech Republic, Croatia. Nowhere, however, have these traitors of their homeland, who, along with the fascists, shot their people, been recognized as heroes, that is why I call on those who advocate historical justice in behalf of the memory of our fathers, our grandfathers, our family. Of course, the adoption of my bill will have significant positive social consequences, remove social tensions in the area of heroization and rehabilitation of fascist collaborators. It will contribute to enhancing Ukraine's international authority, which will finally implement its legislation and will comply with European standards that do not allow for the restoration or celebration of fascism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u173	Instead of the National Deputy of the Dry, Hermanna Mikolayevna has the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u174	Dear friends! Today, there has been an event in this room that will disgrace those who have done so for many years. Today, the ruling coalition, "The Yulia Timoshenko Block", "Our Ukraine" and "The Lithuanian Block", which was very strange to me, because Litwin always said that he was needed by Ukraine, did not vote in favour of punishing the perpetrators of the death of a 17-year-old boy who was poisoned with a non-quality vaccine. In order to make sure that this vaccine, which has been converted into sub-investigative mice, is never used again in Ukraine. For this they did not vote because their pockets, their wallets, proved to be more important to them than the lives of our children. So Ukraine, Ukrainian children will continue to be studied rabbits, or mice, as you like, for all kinds of international experiments, and they will send us all kinds of poison and garbage here to test it for free on our children. When we said that a boy from Kramatorské Donetské region died, they cynically shouted from that row, “It’s not Kramatorsk – it’s Tramadolsk.” And they didn't even realize that children everywhere are the same, in all cities, children are the same. And you and I have kids, too. So, you see, the difference is that you can inoculate your children somewhere in elite clinics where there are French vaccines. And all Ukrainians must inoculate their children as they are vaccinated throughout Ukraine. And that boy's death became, you know, a symbol of our connection, around the humanitarian values, around the human life, and around the child's life. I looked into those people's eyes today and I urged them to listen, forget that the minister is your coalition vote for this decision, forget that you have to hide someone's corruption in there and vote for it. I looked into the eyes of Lilia Grigorovitch, who was a mother and a child, and she was shy about dropping them and not pressing the green button. I'm talking to all the mothers of Ukraine when you're dropping ballots in the urn -- remember those who today cynically put all the Ukrainian children at risk, covering up corruptionists and those who make all kinds of inadequacy vaccines. And who earns the health of Ukrainian children.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u175	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u176	Remember, people, today this day and those who cover up their dirty consciences with embroidered shirts.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u177	Instead of the national deputy Klimenka, the word is given by the representative of the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u178	John Hare “Ukrainian People’s Party”. Dear National Deputies! I want to draw your attention to the effectiveness of the Supreme Council. Not only are we concerned that we have been carrying out complex crisis management activities from day to day, but we are not even able to have a serious discussion about the causes of this crisis, the ways of overcoming it, and so forth. A clear example of the absence of the Supreme Council from the real life of humans was yesterday. Yesterday some attacked the government, others defended the government, there was a lot of barking, but there was no professional work, there was no professional evaluation, there was no professional analysis of the situation that Ukraine was in. And we need a real painting, and how did this painting come to be painted yesterday by our speakers? The analysis was limited to financial macroindicators: Whether a January-month budget has been implemented, whether the budget has been executed, whether funds have been received, or not. But everyone knows that today's crisis has fallen because they've hit on this financial liberalism, that everyone's still been obsessed with finance and didn't think about the real economy, the real life. That is why a picture came out yesterday that we have the Kingdom of God in Ukraine and that we should not rush into thinking. But everyone knows that it was necessary to say that today’s production is collapsing, businesses stop, people go on vacations, because in many people there’s a variety of supplements, like scientists, for example, even government officials, who are sent on voluntary unpaid vacations. And it's like it doesn't have anything, and today we're starting to talk about nothing again. So, from my point of view, we need to eventually change our vision and realize that the crisis has hit Ukraine for three reasons: because of the export-oriented type of our raw-type economy and because they've increased or stimulated imports, they've created the whole infrastructure, and it's clear that this economy has proven to be unprotected. So today we need to implement the ideology of the construction of the internal market. And there's a beautiful slogan that gives the right view and it's "Buy Ukrainian!", it's "Keep Ukrainian!" and "Dive Ukrainian!". Because when you buy Ukrainian, you don't just take goods, and you invest in jobs, you help your brother, your friend, your father, or your son to have a job and have a chance. So what I'm proposing is that the government will still make changes to the Government's Procurement Order, which would make government purchases exclusively, with the exception of critical imports by Ukrainian products. And I propose.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u179	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u180	And I propose one more thing today, bringing power to the Cup and to the ruling power, and to the opposition, and all the authorities can only take one course -- this is the Council of National Security and Defence. So we need to activate this mechanism in order to produce the program and overcome the crisis. So let's be politically responsible people, not just do business and act on the principle: the worse, the better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u181	Instead of the National Deputies of Cibenk and Matthew, six minutes of the Rules has Samuelka Catherine Seminovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u182	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, dear voters, I have received a letter from the Prime Minister of Ukraine Timoshenko Yulia Volodymyrna and I think I am not the only one of the Ukrainian National Deputies who signed the academics of the National Academy of Sciences, in fact, the lights, our scientists, this is Toločko Petrovich, this is the Academy of Pahmov, the Academy of Sciences and the Academy of Sciences of Skopenko Viktor Vasilovich. In their open letter, they turn not only to the government but to each of us, to all Ukrainian citizens. They express their deep concern about the creation of the National Memory Institute at the Cabinet of Ministers. Sad to say, the authority of this state is not similar to that of Dr. Hebbels. We believe that such fine material as the nation’s memory is dangerous to repurchase officials who will sooner or later turn this institution into an authority for the control of ideological loyalty in the humanitarian and scientific environment. Scientific research into the material and spiritual past has been carried out by academics, higher schools, various social organizations, foreigners, cultural and artistic actors. Knowledge of the experience of the past and the historical memory of the people is crystallized in the context of an open discussion by society of its past with different, including assessments of different and different thoughts, any attempt by the State to administratively centralize and regulate this process counterproductive in addition to being illegal, because they violate the freedom of scientific and social thought guaranteed by the Constitution of Ukraine. That will be the case with the official site of the institute located on the government portal, which informs us of the major historical events of Ukraine, which we now owe no doubt to recognize and honor according to the position approved by the government. This list of dates doesn't even mention the Great Homeland War, by the way, those who are humming, but you all have those who died during the Great Homeland War, the liberation of Ukraine from the German-Fashistic invaders, and the State Victory Day celebration is actually celebrated the Day of the End of War in Europe. The stated orientations of the Institute’s activities, research, educational work, monumental care, preserves, competitions of schoolchildren testify to the absence of a well-formed scientific concept in which the new institution resembles the symbiosis of the academic institute, the methodology of the Ministry of Education and Culture, and the headquarters of the Galician Landing. We believe that the creation of the Central Archive of National Memory, which will lead to the dispersion of central and notable archives, will make it impossible for our past historians to have a comprehensive study of future generations. Surprisingly, the Institute of National Memory intends to collect only documents that deal exclusively with repression in Ukraine. What is more, the tragedy is our nation’s national memory. Surprisingly, the generous funding of the Institute’s security system, if 3 million dollars were allocated in the 2008 budget, provides 38 million dollars for this year. The National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine is the budget of about 10 socio-humanities institutions in each of which has 20 doctors and 60-70 candidates for science. Is it not too much for an institution that consists mainly of science officials, some of whom do not even have historical education? And with what potential doesn't even fit one academic institute. The main thing is that there is no need in the above institution. The functions she's supposed to take on are successful at academic institutions: history, archaeology, ethnology, art, Ukrainian language and literature, and so on. All of them are studying the National Memory as well as the corresponding Departments of Ukrainian Universities. In addition, numerous archiving institutions that not only preserve the memory as documents but also introduce them into scientific circulation are busy. And so, of course, I think we need to think about what we're doing, where we're sending this money. Why we're replacing whole institutions with some kind of administrative structure. All scientists in Ukraine. I want to ask the Prime Minister again: let's stop, let's everyone do their job, and let the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine do their job to raise the economy and well-being of the people of Ukraine. And that's absolutely right. And all similar institutions at the Cabinets of Ministers of Ukraine only harm the entire Ukrainian people.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u183	People's deputy of Leapina.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u184	Kseniya Ljapina, “For Ukraine” MP. I continue to inform my colleagues and the Ukrainian society about what is going on between the millions of Ukrainian people's protractors and today's government and the government coalition. Sadly, opposition continues. Today, I have placed business associations in the drawing room that point out that all developed countries are making the development of small businesses a priority during the crisis. Because this is the most flexible area where jobs can be saved and jobs created. We have everything going on the other way around. Left behind an axe over the neck of a small enterprise, the draft Law on Local Taxes and Congregations. It hasn't been canceled yet. At the same time, even today, they tried to put in order a daily draft of the Law amending some of Ukraine’s pension laws, saying that it was a useful law. Dear colleagues, take note of what is written there. Pensioners are limited by one hand, while working pensioners are subject to double taxation by the other hand on the subjects of the smallest single - paying enterprise, doubles the tax burden. Guys, we're gonna run out of jobs and not have a penny of pension contributions at all. We will have nothing to pay for all pensioners in general if we continue to develop such policies. It is impossible to pass this law; it must be repealed. Why did such laws happen to pass here in the Supreme Council Hall, and we do not refer to them? We don't think about what's written in them. And it's very simple, look, all of these laws went through a reduced procedure. The Supreme Council turns into buttons. We don't think about what's written in the laws we vote for. This is not a normal situation. We cannot approach all laws from a political point of view, governmental, so whether we support or not. The law needs to be approached from the standpoint of forecasting, and what will result from the adoption of such a law. The same was true of the law that we passed with you more than 400 votes, note January 15, this year. A wonderful law on the system of assembly and the calculation of the only social contribution to compulsory public social insurance. The Omrian dream of a single social contribution was stained with a spoon. There was a version of solicitation room number two, such as the interdisciplinary commission, which would set out the reporting rules. This will in fact be a meal for several million businesses in Ukraine. Instead of taking a meal in the government budget, a private pocket has been removed. And again in 10 minutes, without thinking about what was going on, we voted in favour of that law. Such shameful practices must be stopped immediately. The Supreme Council of Ukraine is where they must be.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u185	Finish up, time's up.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u186	Where we have to demonstrate a responsible approach to the adoption of laws that apply to millions of citizens. I urge everyone to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u187	Instead of the People’s Deputy, Kinakh, the national deputy of Chechetov has the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u188	Dear voters! Today, without exaggeration, the catastrophic macroeconomic situation in Ukraine is largely due to the fact that the Cabinet of Ministers of Yulia Timoshenko, despite repeated warnings by the opposition government and the Party of the Regions at the beginning and throughout 2008 about Ukraine by international organisations, has already manipulated the social consciousness in August 2008 to the last, saying that the world crisis will not touch Ukraine. The entire composition of the current Cabinet of Ministers, personally Julia Timoshenko, instead of preparing anti-crisis measures, was in fact denied by mid - October 2008 even the very fact that there was a crisis in Ukraine’s economy. The result is lost time. Moreover, even with the late adoption of the so-called anti-crisis law, it has not resolved a whole range of issues, including how to support the real sector, how to ensure the stability of the banking system in practice, and how to maintain the capacity of the Ukrainian, Ukrainian people. As a result of the alleged inactivity of the Yulia government, Timoshenko summed up the work of the country’s economy in 2008 and confirmed the most pessimistic predictions of the opposition government, Viktor Yanukovic. The currency crisis is on the rise. Since August 2008, the bracelet has been undervalued by nearly 40 percent of the dollar. Such rates of decline in national currency are the highest in Europe. Timoshenko’s government, which is in possession of the third currency crisis, has robbed millions of depositors who kept their deposits in their purses, and has greatly increased the use of mortgage loans, 85 percent of which were in dollars. Tens of thousands of families are soon risking flooding against the sky. Now Julia Timoshenko is not tired of repeating that the exchange rate is solely the prerogative of the National Bank. It's another trick of the population. The exchange rate as an indicator of economic competitiveness is a shared responsibility of the government and the NBA, because it is a value that is determined by the internal value of national money, i.e. inflation and their external value, which depends on the balance of payments. Inflation and balance of payments are, if not under direct government influence. Sadly, tomorrow’s prospects still look bleak. And hopefully there is no reason to improve the situation in the future, because in its actions, the government of Yulia Timoshenko slowed down economic growth not only in 2008 but also laid the foundations for the deterioration of the situation in 2009. Today, Ukraine is on the verge of a systemic economic crisis that risks being rejected a few years ago. The only way out is to suspend the President, the government and the parliament for a period of time.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u189	People's deputy, Bilozore. I'm not in the hall. National MP Arjevetin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u190	Stanislaw Arzhevtin, a deputy group “For Ukraine!” A statement by the Association of Ukrainian Banks regarding the cessation of bank refinancing in January 2009. In the Ukrainian banking system, there is a significant deterioration in the financial situation of customers that is threatened by the incomprehensible, destructive policies of the Ukrainian legislative and executive authorities. In the face of economic downturns and a sharp financial crisis, the vast majority of countries are taking urgent measures to protect the bank’s own infrastructure, with a view to supporting bank liquidity through the budget. In our country, no money has been provided by the government to help banks, and the amount allocated by the National Bank on a reverse basis does not even compensate for the flow of deposits from the banking sector. Moreover, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has adopted and prepared for adoption a number of bills aimed exclusively at protecting the interests of borrowers, ignoring the fact that granting unilateral preferences will inevitably result in enormous losses on bank investors. On the other hand, the government's pressure on banks is increasing, requiring unhindered satisfaction with customer withdrawal requirements, including local authorities' funds, which, coupled with the practical blocking of the Supreme Council and the government of Ukraine since the beginning of this year, has put bank liquidity support through the refinancing system at the limit of loss of capacity. In such destructive behavior, there is no logic that can be traced and understood. Or is it the loss of power of a sense of reality? The blocking of the refinancing system throughout January was the result of the adoption by the Supreme Council of the Ukrainian Government of the State Budget 2009 Act, article 86 of which provides for the joint approval of the order and rate of the refinancing of banks by the National Bank and the Cabinet of Ministers, which is virtually nowhere in the world, and which will only contribute to the spread of responsibility. And so far the final version of this order has not been defined, and the refinancing of banks since the beginning of this year has slowed down. Why? To make bank and customer investors a problem to cause an artificial conflict between a client and a bank? The factors listed below, along with a case-by-case flow against the banking system of negative pyars, including by individual high-ranking individuals, are very negative for the economy and the population of Ukraine. Was it not for these reasons that 16 billion were removed in the past month? The Association of Ukrainian Banks demands that negative information on the banking system be stopped immediately by senior officials in the state, including on all television shows and the immediate unblocking of the refinancing of banks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u191	Instead of the National Deputy, Billorus, the People's Deputy of Caplienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u192	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians, I would like to raise two questions from this parliamentary rostrum. In accordance with article 94 of the Ukrainian Constitution, the President of Ukraine signs it 15 days after receiving the law, taking it into effect, and formally publishes it. We're all talking about the failure of the banking sector to service the population of Ukraine, to get a stable currency corridor, and to change or deny the change in unilaterally and on the part of the banking sector of loans and so forth. Last year we signed two bills, we adopted it in this session hall: Bill 3343, Registration number, from 12.12.2008 and Bill 3309 from 31.10.2008. What is it? In fact, Bill 3309 regulated the establishment of the so - called stabilisation fund for bank capitalization, supported the external lending of the stabilisation fund, restricted the use of the currency proceeds by selling it to the interbank as a mandatory and actually earmarked for the income of the National Bank of Ukraine the fourth part of the creation of the so - called deposit guarantee fund for depositors from natural persons. This bill has been signed by the President but has not been published. So we actually don't have the ability, both we and the government, to influence this situation. The second bill, 3343, which is louder for the population, actually referred to the following, that banks are prohibited unilaterally from changing the terms of contracts made with customers, such as increasing the interest rate on credit contracts or reducing the size of the interest rate on bank deposits. Unfortunately, this bill was signed on time by Viktor Andrievich Yushchenko, but not published as required by the Constitution, in two appropriate media outlets, the Voice of Ukraine and the News of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. From this parliamentary rostrum by this parliamentary inquiry, which I have heard from me in this rostrum, I appeal to the President-in-Office of Ukraine, Viktor Andriyovich Yushchenk, for the immediate publication of the above-mentioned drafts in the “Voice of Ukraine” and “Reports of the Supreme Council” and for the opportunity of an active government and the population to finally be reassured in the so-called banking problem sector that we have for this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u193	The Landik National MP is not in the session room. National MP Kowal is not in the session room. Instead of the national deputy Lazko, the Pavlovsky national deputy was to speak. National MP Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u194	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Respectable citizens, respectable voters! During this week, when the Supreme Council is working, we are all convinced that the political forces represented in Parliament are actually pursuing their own interests. The interests of citizens, the interests of voters who voted for political powers, for them in the second place, if not elsewhere. What do I mean? On Tuesday, the Supreme Council began its work in a locked state. Why the Supreme Council was blocked: because our colleagues in the Party of Regions did not want the Supreme Council to consider a draft resolution on government mistrust. The question itself was initiated, and the question was asked to be moved to the fourth. Why? Because we were planning to bring people here to parliament in Kiev, rebel them, raise them up against the government, and then use it. What? On Thursday, most of the parliament didn't support our colleagues from the Party of Regions, and there were no people in Kiev, because people are not stupid anymore, because people have long understood, because people have long realized that politicians only use them. [[Wait! The real eyes of the circle, that you're leaving the hall? Listen to the truth!]] What the Party of the Regions wanted: A party of regions wanted to resign the government of Timoshenko. Why did they want to do this? It was a knife in the back, but not Timoshenko, it was a knife in the back of Ukraine, because the government of Timoshenko removed from the gas pipe “Rosukreenergo”, deprived the Party of Regions and Firmash, the owner of “Roskrenergo”, of making billions of money. First they suck this money out of the state budget, then they buy the voters for this money, they buy the politicians to vote for the resignation of the democratic government of Timoshenko, they buy the people in the elections, then they come to the Supreme Council, they come to the government, and they make the money that they spent on the election. Fortunately, the country won yesterday. We have a government that has the capacity to work that has the capacity to cope with an economic crisis. We call on all the political forces in Parliament to unite around the government of Timoshenko, to offer their representatives to the government and to pull the train together. Instead of sitting quietly and just being critical. Let's work. Let us take care of people’s interests. We're not hiding from people, we're actually pursuing only our own political interests, as our colleagues in the Party of Regions do.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-06-m0.u195	The morning plenary session is closed. Good luck. I'll see you Tuesday at the morning plenary.
