ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:14]] The 417 national deputies registered in the session hall. Dear colleagues, allow me to welcome you and all the cowards with the brilliant victory of the Shakhtar team. [[Congrats]] These are the moments of connection and the triumph that we should have in our everyday lives. Today, honourable colleagues, the birthday of Ukrainian national deputies: Logwinenko Alexija Stepanovich and Pavelenka Sergio Grigorovitch. We welcome our colleagues and wish them good health and every success. Now, information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary on May 20, 2009. 14 questions on the agenda were considered: Four laws were passed, six bills were adopted as a basis, and five bills were rejected. Dear National Deputies, the list of issues that are scheduled for consideration on May 21, 2009, you have, let's get to work. Now we have to look at the laws that the President of Ukraine has vetoed. It is announced before the review of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislation on the payment of arrears to the Ukrainian Pension Fund and on the strengthening of liability for violations of legislation in the field of compulsory state pension insurance, with proposals by the President of Ukraine since 27.03.2009. Reporter. There's no one from the government? From the President. Dear colleagues, there is no one from the President. [[B in m in s a l in]] From the committee, please, Valery Suškevitch. Please report. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, the committee at its meeting on 14 April considered the President's proposals to amend some of Ukraine's legislative acts to repay the debt owed to the Ukrainian Pension Fund and to increase the responsibility for violating legislation in the field of compulsory state pension insurance, and recommended that the Supreme Council re-adopt the law in general, overcome the President's veto in that edition, which was approved on 5 March 2009. I would like to remind you that today, this bill proposes to restructure fines and pennies on subjects paying insurance contributions to the Pension Fund, on dates from 1 January 2007 to 1 January 2009. In the President's view, this will result in a weakening of discipline on insurance contributions, resulting in a reduction in income to the Pension Fund. But the committee does not consider the arguments put forward by the President of Ukraine to be convincing enough to rule out the situation that this law actually does. Well, ineffective, in fact. And in fact, this leads to an increase in the debt of insurers, without guaranteeing that the Pension Fund budget is more filled. In addition, those companies that have become insolvent in the press, their employees do not actually work in terms of their insurance system, their pension insurance does not work. This also violates the constitutional rights of our citizens who work in these businesses. And the repeal of the rule laid down in the law, as proposed by the President, without changing the existing order, will result from the continuation of ineffective debt repayment practices and only worsen the financial situation of enterprises during a financial and economic crisis. I pay particular attention to that. In fact, the situation is that further debt is triggered and there is no possibility of filling the Pension Fund with current insurance contributions. And lastly, I want to say a very significant fact. In support of the adoption of this law, the committee received over 350 letters from enterprises from all regions of Ukraine, including from the industrial East and South East Ukraine, where business leaders, professional organizations and, in fact, the workers themselves who work in these enterprises simply demand that this law be passed as soon as possible, namely, to overcome the veto under Bill 2315. Please support the committee's proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u3	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? The President of Ukraine proposes that article 2, paragraph 2, of chapter 1 of this law be deleted. The committee disagrees with the proposal of the President of Ukraine and proposes to beat the President's veto on this bill. Therefore, honourable national MPs, I shall first put to the vote the proposal of the President of Ukraine according to the Rules. If it is not supported, then you will have a proposal to defeat the President's veto on this bill. Is there no objection? I'm voting on a proposal by the President of Ukraine that he proposes that article 2, paragraph 2, of chapter 1 of this Act be deleted. People's deputies please identify themselves. [[10:09:13]] For the 10th. The decision is not supported. A proposal is now being put to the vote by the committee on overcoming the veto of the President of Ukraine on the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine, registration number 2315. [[on the payment of arrears to the Pension Fund of Ukraine and the strengthening of responsibility for the breach of legislation in the area of compulsory state pension insurance]] Please vote. [[10:10:00]] For 396 Decision taken. It's being announced. That is, the veto of the law is over. Dear colleagues, the Ukrainian Act on State Support and Promoting the Development of Production and Consumption of Mineral Goods in Ukraine, with proposals by the President of Ukraine dated 4 April 2009, registration number 0909. Is there a reporter from the president? I can't see. People's MP Jankovsky will be speaking from the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u4	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished members of the people! On 19 March 2009, the Supreme Council adopted the Ukrainian Act on State Support for the Promotion of Production and Consumption of Mineral Fertilizers. The President, having considered the law, disagreed with it and vetoed it. In particular, the President believes that the benefits provided by law to producers of mines violate the provisions of the Constitution which establish the equality of all operators before the law. On this very controversial subject, I will allow myself to see the following. The principle of equality enshrined in the Constitution does not preclude the legislator from regulating certain relations to establish differences in the rights and obligations of economic actors. This position is set out in the decisions of the Constitutional Court and is an official interpretation of the Constitution of Ukraine. According to article 17 of the Ukrainian Constitution, the economic security of Ukraine is one of the most important functions of the State, the cause of the entire Ukrainian people. Through the adoption of the Law on the Support of Producers and Consumers of Mines, the Supreme Council acts as an economic security function for Ukraine by creating conditions for the conservation of the main subsector of the chemical industry and industry, such as the production of mineral fertilizers and agriculture. The sub-sector of mineral fertilizer production is not only one of the main producers and exporters of Ukrainian goods that will ensure the entry into the state of foreign exchange, but will also provide full mineral fertilizers to domestic agriculture. As a result of 2008, Ukraine produced mineral fertilizers totalling about $2 billion. By currency, this is the fourth place since the production of steel, machinery and agriculture. Since December of last year, the chemical industry has lost about 300 million losses a month. Only 50 per cent of the capacity of Ukrainian chemical enterprises is loaded. The decline in output per product ranges from 30 per cent to 60 per cent. I think that these arguments are enough to make sure that the support of producers and consumers of past good is now a very difficult time than ever before, as it is no violation of the Constitution. A violation of the Constitution would be precisely the inactivity of the Supreme Council in the matter proposed by the President. The introduction of environmental armour and the consumption of natural gas for nitrogen-fertilizers avoids technological and environmental emergencies as a result of the gas cut-off. The last thing the President has pointed out is the lack of legal capacity to obtain State support from farmers during the spring-field work this year. The annual spring-field work begins in the second half of February and ends in early May. At the time of adoption by the Supreme Council, spring and field work in 2009 had already begun, that is, even if the law had provided for agricultural support measures during the spring and summer work this year, they would still not have been able to be implemented in a timely manner and would have been in vain. In relation to the above, the members of the Committee decided to submit proposals by the President of Ukraine to the Law on State Support and Promotion of the Production and Consumption of Mineral Fertilizers in Ukraine for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And propose to overcome the veto of the President of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u5	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues! The president of Ukraine proposes to reject the law. The committee is proposing to defeat the President's veto on this bill. In accordance with the Rules, the President of Ukraine's proposal to reject the Ukrainian Law on State Support and Promoting the Development of Production and Consumption of Mineral Goods in Ukraine is the first to vote. Registration number 0909. Ladies and gentlemen, please identify yourself. [[10:16:02]] For -6 The proposal by the President of Ukraine is not supported. A committee proposal shall be put to the vote. On overcoming the veto of the President of Ukraine to the Ukrainian Act on State Support and Promoting the Development of Production and Consumption of Mineral Goods in Ukraine. Registration number 0909. Please vote. [[10:16:39]] For 227 The decision is not taken, the law is rejected. The faction? Please. Region Party - 169, “Block of Timoshenko” - 2, “Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense” - 10, Communists - 26, “Block of Lithuania” - 20. Dear colleagues! We now have to consider the Ukrainian law on amending certain Ukrainian laws on the employment of members of private agriculture, with proposals by the President of Ukraine from 24.04.2009. Registration number 4043. The committee requests that the draft bill be postponed. Please, Jaroslav Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u6	Dear colleagues! You know the history of this bill. The need to write this bill was triggered by a colossal instruction from the State Department of Agriculture, Rural and Urban Councils since 2005. This instruction was approved by Drjkomstat. When you and I adopted a bill in this room that was supposed to contribute to the work of the foundation and combat unemployment in case of unemployment and employment centers, an amendment was made during the second reading, which interfered with article 8 of the Law on Personal Farming. What's the matter? According to this instruction, everyone is not supposed to be able to get out of a private farm. A person who joins a private farm does not have the right to help with unemployment. So millions of peasants in Ukraine who, for various reasons now don't work, colporteurs, raphs and farms, you know what happened to them, they end up in the status of both unemployed and unemployed and without help. This bill costs 400 million dollars, if it wasn't for the veto, and it spreads to 200,000 of our peasants. It's small money, but it refers to a huge array of our people living in the countryside. We received the committee's comments by the President at the end of April. Yesterday, we gathered yesterday because only 19th did we get the conclusions of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. But in view of the fact that Ukrainian National Deputies from the “Julia Tymoshenko Block” members of the Committee on Social Policy and Work have not come to the committee meeting, the committee has not been able to take place once and for all. I am taking this opportunity today to address the leadership of the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko, I have addressed John Grigorovovich Kirilenko personally, again to you. Please note the work of the National Deputies of the BUT faction in the Committee on Social Policy and Labour. The Committee on Social Policy and Work does not have and cannot have elements of politics. What's happening in our committee right now is entirely on the conscience of your national MPs, who are constantly trying to play games: majority and minority. This bill needed to be considered and made a decision. That's why I asked Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvin to withdraw this bill today, to vote on his knowledge, because the committee did not meet and there was no response to the remarks made by the President of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u7	Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to support the committee's appeal and to invite the committee to consider the matter. To be determined about the comments of the President of Ukraine. And if it's necessary to make suggestions on what we should do to bring this situation in order to normalize it. Is there no objection? Let us postpone this consideration to the next plenary week. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on "Contemporary status and current tasks to overcome the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster" is under consideration. Registration number 4316. You remember that we accepted this document as a basis. And we've come up with a variety of readings because they've been supported by the Supreme Council of Ukraine with proposals on the need to recommend that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine decide to set up a central executive body on issues related to the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. And the final edition of this document was not voted on. The committee was working on a draft ruling. And we need to make a decision. Head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl Disaster, Anatoly Ivanovich Seminoga. Please, Anatoly Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u8	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Taking into account the requirement of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, numerous appeals by public Chernobyl organizations, the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl disaster prepared and finalized a draft ruling on the results of parliamentary hearings. The decision endorses the recommendations of the parliamentary hearings held on April 8, this year, taking into account the conclusions of the hearing at the plenary meeting on April 17 and the working trip of the committee headed by the Head of the Supreme Council to the Chernobyl Atomic Station, as well as the meeting with the working group. The committee proposes the adoption of a draft decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the recommendation of parliamentary hearings on the topic “Contemporary state and current response to the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster”, taking into account the following suggestions for parliamentary hearings. First. In paragraph 1 after paragraph one, complete with a new sub-item of this content. Consider how the Constitution of Ukraine improves the system of state administration to deal with the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. After paragraph 12, complete the new sub-item with this content. Ensure the implementation of article 12 of the Ukrainian Law on General Principles for the Further Exploitation and Disposal of the Operation of the Chernobyl AES and the conversion of the destroyed fourth energy cloud of this AES to an environmentally sound system, with regard to the installation of the employees of the shut-off power grids, as well as the employees of the “Hidden” facility for the period of the exploitation of the Chernobyl AES, at least below the average wage of the employees of the relevant professions and positions at active nuclear power plants with the preservation of the benefits provided by the Ukrainian law. In order to ensure nuclear safety and preserve qualified personnel in Ukraine, add a new point: “To accelerate the reconciliation of the necessary materials for the creation of the “Drevljan” natural reserve in the Žitomir region”. Paragraph 13 should read as follows: “Take steps to participate in the established order of domestic enterprises and labour resources in sub-sub-contracts to carry out international projects at the Chernobyl nuclear power station’. Paragraph 14 reads: “Approval of the plan of action for information escorting the process of removal from the operation of the Chernobyl AES and the conversion of the “Hidden” object into an environmentally sound system for the purpose of systemically informing Ukrainian society and the world community about the progress of work”. The second item is worded as follows: “The National Bank of Ukraine shall take measures during the month to ensure that citizens who have suffered the Chernobyl disaster can receive funds without any limitation of the amounts.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u9	Let me finish. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u10	without restrictions on the amounts and limits of their pension accounts in all without excluding banks in Ukraine, especially in those banking institutions for which temporary administrations are appointed.” This draft decision is agreed upon and supported by the deputies of all factions, members of the Committee on Environmental Policy. I ask you to support this decision as a whole as a determination to take into account the proposals made by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u11	Thank you. Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u12	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'm at the suggestion made by the chairman of the committee. Let's do this: where the National Bank takes action by 26 April, we'll take the date, because they're practically using it, but we'll take the date by 26 April.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u13	Adam Ivanovich, I apologize, the point is that there is such a point in the proposals and changes we have made.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u14	We've removed this item and introduced a new one.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u15	We've got a new one. It says that “in a month’s time since the adoption of the decision”.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u16	Adam Ivanovich! In the process of processing.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u17	Vladimir Mikhailovich, better. Yes, I understand, but it's better not to be "monthly," not to be taken away, because the National Bank has already started this work and is doing it. Maybe it's the moon. Then let's go to the moon. Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u18	Dear colleagues, we held a field meeting of a committee at the Chernobyl nuclear station directly. These recommendations were discussed, and these proposals, which are further suggested for your consideration, are in fact highly recommended by the Chernobyl nuclear station workers. With these additions in mind, therefore, there is a request to support the adoption of a draft decision as a whole. No objections? I'm voting on the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Resolution on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on "Contemporary state and current tasks to overcome the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster" based on the proposals put forward by the committee head. Registration number 4316. Please vote. [[10:28:11]] For 388 Decision taken. A draft decree on the consent of materials to choose the location of land is being announced for consideration. Registration number 4041. The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations, Valérie Fedorovich Beveljenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u19	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, honored ones! Your opinion is proposed for re-reading according to the Ukrainian Supreme Council Order of March 5, 2005, the draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the consent of materials to choose the location of land. [[Registration number 4041]] During the drafting process, proposals were made to the committee from the legislators, which were mainly based on the following. First: number all parts of the draft order. The offer is included. Second: the proposal suggested that the words “Conciliate land site materials” should be replaced by the words “Conciliate land removal materials”. Rejected, because such a proposal is not in line with part two of article 151 of the Ukrainian Land Code, which states that the Supreme Council of Ukraine agrees on the location of land on particularly valuable lands and not on their removal. Third. It is also rejected that part of the fourth decision is to be supplemented by the words “in the context of the implementation of VAT on all requirements of the law to restore the status of previously acquired land” and by the words “in the terms of the lease, the owner of the lease,” such as the rule of direct action set out in articles 97 and 151 of the Ukrainian Earth Code, which does not require duplication. Moreover, this agreement of landowners and help with the recovery of previously worked land is contained in materials sent to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to choose the location of land. In view of the foregoing, the committee proposes this draft decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that it be accepted as a basis and as a whole as a determination. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u20	Dear colleagues, we've reviewed this bill several times, we haven't found common support. In this regard, the committee finalized the document. Is there no objection to putting him to the vote? It doesn't, does it? That is why I am voting on the proposal for a committee on acceptance as a basis and for the whole of the draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the agreement of materials, the choice of location of land. Registration number 4041. Please vote. [[10:31:50]] For-179 The decision is not taken. The factions. Region Party – 147, Timoshenko Yulia Block – 5, Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense – 8, Communists – 0, Litvina Block – 19. What will we do with this document, dear colleagues? Is he rejected? The draft decision is rejected. [[Registration number 4041]] It is announced for the consideration of the Draft Decree on Amendments to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order of 5 June 1996 on the establishment of named scholarships for the Supreme Council of Ukraine to higher education students. We have reporters, Deputy Minister of Education and Science, Peter Musiovich, and Secretary of the Committee. Yeah, yeah. And the secretary of the Committee on Science and Education, Samuelka Catherine Semenovna. Dear colleagues, in view of the enormous amount of work we have today, I am proposing that questions that are not related to the second reading, as well as to the staff, that is, the selection of judges, should be considered by a reduced procedure. Please support this proposal. [[10:33:19]] For-142 The decision is not taken. We'll work in accordance with the Rules. Please, Kulikov Peter Musiovich, Deputy Minister of Education and Science.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u21	Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! For your consideration, there is a draft decree of the Supreme Council amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order of 5 June 1996 on the establishment of named scholarships of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to students of higher education institutions. The project is designed to bring the number of nominees and academic scholarships applied by the Supreme Council of Ukraine for students in higher education institutions to the size of higher academic scholarships for the same category of scholarships introduced since 1 January 2008. The reason is that, starting in 2008, the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the laws on the State Budget for the year in question sets the size of minimum academic and social scholarships for educational institutions of different categories and sets the size of all other scholarships that exist in the state. So far, government decisions have built a clear system of academic scholarships that includes a minimum scholarship, a scholarship of the difference, academic and nominal scholarships of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, academic scholarships of the President of Ukraine. Since January 1, 2008, the size of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's name and academic scholarships for students in higher education institutions has not been determined. The adoption of a draft decision will help maintain the relationship between the sizes of scholarships based on different branches of government, as it has been in previous years. The size of the academic scholarships of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be determined in absolute figures as well as in the size of other scholarships. That is: for the first and second levels of accreditation for higher education students – 850 dollars, for the third and fourth levels of accreditation – 900 dollars. The draft ruling is in agreement with the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economics and the Ministry of Justice. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u22	There is a question. Please sign up for the question. Please put the names of the people's deputies on the board. Vadim, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u23	Dear colleagues, this has not yet been the case in the history of Ukraine, with the issue of changing scholarships to reduce students. It is at a time when the beautiful, bright words speak of the need to fight for the future of our nation, for the health of our nation. We condemn our students to the ulcer, to the gastritis, to working at night so they don't know anything, because they're deprived of their native Russian language, forcing us to Ukrainianize, and we're still trying to deny them the right to live. Therefore, I believe that such a bill cannot be supported. Such a ministry must be disbanded and elected by a new Minister of Education, which will reflect the interests of Ukraine, the Ukrainian people and the future of our State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u24	I beg your pardon, distinguished national MPs! Today's Supreme Council scholarship is 638 bracelets. So the question goes to pick it up by 260 bracelets and make it somehow appropriate. President's scholarship is a thousand dollars, a 750-year scholarship to the Cabinet of Ministers. So that's what you have to do if after the adoption of the law they do the math, they're going to pay up to 260 dollars, so this is not going to go down.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u25	Adam Martinyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u26	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. I'm surprised if the deputy minister doesn't know what kind of scholarship the students get, if he wants us to have, if you'll excuse the non-parliamentary word, for the crooks. Today, the Supreme Council's nominee scholarship is calculated: the student's elevated scholarship, how much is it worth today? And it's multiplying by the coefficient of 3.2. The student's elevated scholarship today, if I'm not mistaken, somewhere between 600 and 700 multiply by three and you'll see what the coefficient is. This is one moment. Second, why do you think the Supreme Council scholarship for teaching institutions should be called academics? Which is why the Academy and the academic scholarships of the Supreme Council are here. If we were to grant scholarships to young scientists, it's another matter of academic scholarships to the Supreme Council. And to the educational institutions, the word of academics is completely out of bounds and out of tune. There's probably people working at the Ministry who don't know what an academy is and what learning is.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u27	Dear Adam Ivanovich! In fact, there are 600 bracelets available today. Yeah. I am now answering, and the question is now about academic and nominee scholarships. That is why there is a difference between us. There's a breakup. And if we take this to 96, the coefficient of 3.2 is really going to be 1888 dollars, and then the President's scholarship is going to be four and one times, and that's going to be 2,000. And for today, the teacher, the associate, he's got 1900 dollars, which is almost a scholarship. Deputies! What you're going to do is we're going to make a decision, here's the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u28	Thank you! Have a seat, please. Catherine Semenovna Samojlik is the secretary of the Committee on Science and Education, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u29	Dear colleagues! I would like to draw your attention to the proposal for a draft regulation amending the Supreme Council Order on the establishment of named scholarships for the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the students of higher education institutions. Why would I be an alternative? Only because Adam Ivanovich said. I made a comment at the committee meeting that there is a high status of the Supreme Council of Ukraine scholarship and that it cannot be academic, first. And secondly, it's the first time we've met a fact like this when the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is the author of the Supreme Council of Ukraine ruling. The decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine have always been adopted and initiated only by the Ukrainian national deputies. That's the only way, that's the size. I mean, there's my initiative in this cut. I want to tell you this: in fact, 500 scholarships were established in 96: 175 for the first and third levels of accreditation and 325 for the third-iv levels of accreditation. And their size was definitely a factor. But since January 1, 2008, I ask everyone to listen, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has decided to unify virtually all scholarships, leaving a larger scholarship just for the President of Ukraine, and everyone else should be smaller, these scholarships. It was called upon that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine had made an appropriate decision, which Peter Musiyovich, had no bearing on it, but today he presented and that is what this was caused. We've decided in absolute numbers not more than in presidential figures. Adam Ivanovich is right. By our determination, the scholarship for the third level of accreditation should be 1280, and for the third-iv it should be 1696. For, they said, what scholarships for the President of Ukraine were 800 and 1,000 bracelets and the Cabinet of Ministers 700 and 850 bracelets. I want to draw your attention to the bill. I asked this bill last time because we, in principle, do not have the right to make things worse, we do not have the right under the Constitution to reduce the amount of scholarships, but because, starting in 1998, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine stubbornly does not pay the scholarship of this category of children, this is what the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine decided to do. Of course, our committee made a decision by a majority, by a majority, by an inexhaustible majority, decided to support the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, but I express my point of view and I want to say. By accepting this decision, we ignore the Constitution of Ukraine and significantly reduce the social protection of students. And I would like to point out that in 1996, it was precisely us who adopted this decision, which is being considered today by a completely new version of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u30	Dear colleagues, we have two draft rulings on this subject: a government decision, and also a committee directly introduced by Catherine Seminovna Samojlik. Now, one minute. So I'd like to ask, dear colleagues, to exchange your thoughts on this matter. Please sign up for the performance. Please put the names of the people's deputies on the board. Vladimir Ivanovich Polochalo, chairman of the committee Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u31	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Because there have been questions about numbers, and since the Supreme Council is currently registering various student support bills, I'd like you to pay attention to these figures, which is what gives students. Today, a scholarship from the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which was established in 1996, 532 bracelets – for the first, second, level of accreditation and 640 bracelets, even a little less – third, fourth. [[It's 500 named scholarships.]] If this decision is approved or Catherine Seminovna's ruling, because, in fact, only the Supreme Council can take decisions or the Cabinet of Ministers, then the students, these 500 scholarships, will receive 900 sums of the third, fourth and 750 dollars for the first, second level of accreditation. [[Increases substantially]] What's not consistent? We get almost half as much today as we get, the Supreme Council with respect to nominee scholarships as the President. Because the presidential scholarship is 1,000 bracelets for the third level, the fourth level for accreditation, and the first, the second, 800. The Minister's office has named scholarships. There's 850 bucks and 700 bucks. If we want to accept today, improve the status of nominee scholarships, raise the title status of this scholarship, this determination increases scholarships today, not tomorrow, during the election campaign. It has flaws, of course, we support it on the committee. I absolutely agree with Catherine Seminal, it has to be the high status of this scholarship, and it has to be bigger, and it has to be a name. So we supported this decision, which is even better than today’s situation. If we really care about students and we want these 500 named scholarships to have a bigger number from tomorrow, and the students get a bigger number. The Committee therefore requests the Supreme Council to consider draft Decree No. 3302, which was introduced by the National MP, Catherine Samoylik, as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u32	Lilia Stepanovna Grigorovich refers to Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u33	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “For Ukraine!” Dear colleagues, I think we were all students present here in the hall, at least the vast majority, and we know that scholarships are never enough. And it's still not going to be enough, either by name or by any other. So, of course, this is an important question, we need to take care of the students, remember that this is our future, and make the right decisions. But I'm not left with the idea that we're giving a lot of attention to issues of a passing total character. Now under the walls of Parliament came representatives of small business. They are protesting a decision of 366, adopted by the Government of Timoshenko, which increased the threefold contribution of small businesses to the Pension Fund. People on the verge of destruction, people from all parts of Ukraine, have absolutely socio-economic requirements. The question is, why do we have a lot of time every day to create investigation committees when one clan against the other wants to work out, on other transitional issues related to state awards, merited titles and so on, and there is no time for ordinary people who come from despair from all parts of Ukraine here, to parliament, then go to the government, then go to the President, then go to the Ukrainian House, where there's some misunderstanding about how the government helps small businesses. Business. When every honest person knows that this small business is destroying, destroying 2 million people and doing it in a destructive and unappealable way. So you, your fellow believers, can laugh on different sides, or at least laugh at yourself, but people will not forgive you. 2 million people bring resolutions to Parliament. You've been handed over to everyone, and you don't even want to pay attention to it. So I want to say on behalf of the small entrepreneurs who have asked for this, that they are demanding the annulment of wrong government decision No.366 of April 14, which has increased contributions to the Pension Fund and is practically destroying people right now, and that they introduce a moratorium on raising all congregations, taxes, increasing rents to small and medium-sized businesses by the end of 2010. And they already have political requirements for major elections, reducing the number of civil servants and so forth. And I want to say, the Head of the Supreme Council has promised for days that the bill of the parliamentary group “For Ukraine!” 3668, 4200 will be put to the next plenary week for consideration. These are laws on a moratorium on tax burdens other than excise duties and moratoriums on small business checks by the end of 2010. Dear colleagues, if we all vote in favour of these decisions, people will say "Thank you" and we will do our duty. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u34	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. We have two draft decrees on this subject: government and national deputies. In order of their registration, I'll put it to a vote. The difference between these documents in the amounts that are supposed to be defined as the name scholarships of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for students. The first is the draft of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decree on Amendments to the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 5 June 1996 on the establishment of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's nominees for students in higher education institutions, government, registration number 3302. I'm putting it to the vote on the basis and as a whole. I'd like to make up my mind. [[10:51:30.]] For-174 The decision is not taken. It is now up to the vote to draft a decision by the People's Deputy, Catherine Samoylik, to amend the Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the establishment of named scholarships of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to students of higher education institutions. [[Registration number 3302-Deputy]] Please vote. [[10:52:07]] For 178. The decision is not taken. The draft regulations have been rejected. Dear colleagues, to your knowledge. The Supreme Council of Ukraine had 500 named scholarships, and it had to raise these scholarships for students who showed examples of learning. It's not a political question at all, but it's your will. She didn't understand. Dear colleagues, the question of election and dismissal of judges, we're putting off until 12 o'clock for 30 minutes. I propose that we consider the question of the appointment of out-of-court local elections. The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, Upper Sergey Petrovich. I'd ask you for a general decision, and then I'd read every decision, and we'd vote. Okay?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u35	Honorable Presidency, distinguished national deputies, distinguished voters! Your point is to consider 14 decisions regarding the appointment of out - of - turn village, village, and city heads. 10 rulings are the election of rural heads, one decision by referendum, one by judgment, six by personal statement, and two by death. The two decrees are the election of village heads, both of them have written statements of their own accord, and the two decrees are city heads, Alexandrivsk, Lugansk, according to the verdict of the court, and the Malin City Head, there by the decision of the council. [[Artemian Region]] The Committee considered all these decisions, and they all correspond and all the documents are in line with the legislation, the Supreme Council's Office in connection with local authorities, local authorities, the local authorities believe that it is appropriate to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with the Constitution and the Law on the Election of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crime, Local Councils and Rural, Rural Heads. Please support Decrees 4512, 4512-1 to 4512-12, and Decree 4331-39. Thank you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u36	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you and I have already voted on a package of 38 decrees to hold temporary elections on August 2nd. We need to determine these provisions in order to ensure that appropriate work is done if a positive decision is to be made. I'm betting on a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Registration number 4331-39 “On the appointment of consecutive elections of Malin Zitomirsk city chief.” [[10:55:29]] For 315 Decision taken. 4512 — the appointment of consecutive elections for the Kolarov village council of the Yellow Area of the Mikolai region. [[10:55:54]] For 309 Decision taken. 4512-1 is the appointment of the successive elections of the Fedunian Rural Head (Fedun Rural Council of the Shishat district of Poltava). [[10:56:18]] For 318 Decision taken. 4512-2 is the appointment of the undergraduate election of the village head (Pedgajczykow village council of the Zoločiv Region of Lviv Region). [[10:56:46]] For 321 Decision taken. 4512-3 is the appointment of the next election of the Tolokun Rural Head, Tolokun Rural Council of the High Town District of the Kyiv Region. [[10:57:10]] For 327 Decision taken. 4512-4 — on the appointment of the successive elections of the Alexandrian village head, the Alexandrian village council of the Zolochov district of Kharkish district. [[10:57:36]] For 318 Decision taken. 4512-5 is the appointment of the next election of the Greenwich Rural Head (Gristian Rural Council of the Labedin district of Suma Region). [[10:58:01]] For 327 Decision taken. 4512-6, on the appointment of the Verchainian village head election. [[Verenčany Village Council of the Czernovets region]] [[10:58:26]] For 339 Decision taken. 4512-7 is the appointment of the successive elections of the Naraiah Rural Head (Narai Rural Council of the Galician District of Ivano-Frankiv Region). [[10:58:50]] For 340. Decision taken. 4512-8 – on the appointment of the consecutive elections of the village head of Grakov (Gracow Village Council of the Chuguyiv Region of Kharkiv Region). [[10:59:15]] For 337 Decision taken. 4512-9 is the appointment of the successive elections of the rural head of peace (Mirnen Village Council of the Gorokhiv Region of Volin Region). [[10:59:40]] For 336 Decision taken. 4512-10 is the appointment of the successive elections of the Slavonic Village Head (Slavgrad Village Council of the Synelnik District of Dnipropetrov Region). [[11:00:05]] For 184 The decision is not taken. 4512-1 is the appointment of the viceroyal election of the village head of Vradiv (Vradiv village council of the Vradiv district of Mikolai district). [[11:00:33]] For 327 Decision taken. 4512-12 - on the appointment of the successive elections of the city head of Alexandria (the city of Alexandria, the Regional Council of Lugansk Lugansk Region). [[11:01:02]] For-166 The decision is not taken. With regard to the two draft regulations on which the Supreme Council of Ukraine has not made a positive decision, I ask the committee to return to the consideration of these committees. Dear colleagues! Now let's move on to the second reading. We should now consider a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Free Economic Activities. The committee made a letter requesting that the bill be postponed in view of the need for a large range of documents of a permissive nature to be included in the list. The National Committee on Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship is now carrying out this analysis. Is there no objection? Shall we put it off then? A draft Law on Wholesale Markets in Agriculture Production is being announced. [[second reading]] The rapporteur is the deputy head of the Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations, Sergey Mikolayovich Tereshuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u37	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! On September 18, 2008, a bill was adopted in the first reading by the national deputies of Tereshuk, Kirilenka, Poljančič, Vaschuk on the wholesale markets of agricultural products. 43 proposals were made by the people’s deputies to the second reading. All offers without exception are included. The proposals made by the national deputy of Jury significantly improved the bill, taking into account the proposals made by the people’s deputies of the Kingdom, Teryochina. They're even lowering tax benefits, but we still thought it would be a compromise to be able to adopt a bill in second reading and in general. I want to point out that in November our government adopted the concept of the development of wholesale markets. Without the adoption of the above-mentioned bill, the concept cannot be implemented. That's why I'm addressing you, honourable deputies! It's not a political bill, it's a bill that agriculture needs today, a bill that our citizens need, a bill that will allow us to create an agrarian market infrastructure. Agriculture is not just production, it's implementation, it's infrastructure. That is why I appeal to you, fellow members of the national parliament, to vote in favour of the above-mentioned draft law on agrarian politics and land relations, to consider the above-mentioned bill and to propose to the Supreme Council to vote in the second reading and to vote in general as a law. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u38	Dear colleagues! What questions might there be? According to the amendments, if they are all taken into account, what might be the question? Let's do it this way. Now we're going to define the decision on the law, and then you're going to present your questions directly. No warning? Dear colleagues! In view of the fact that all the proposals for this law are taken into account and the committee proposes to adopt in the second reading and, as a whole, as a law, I put to the vote the proposal of the adoption committee in the second reading and in general as a bill of the draft Law on the Markets in Agriculture. [[Registration number 2137]] Please vote. [[11:05:24]] For 177 The decision is not taken. I'm voting for a second reading. [[11:05:46]] For 324 Decision taken. Please, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u39	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! Maybe we wouldn't be rejecting the law right now if we had given the word before. The principal legal office made 12 substantial legal observations to this project. This law would have to be adopted. But there are things, let's say we're interfering with the tax system, not on the basis of these laws, we're doing the benefits, but we have to predict changes there. So, in my opinion, we had to take into account the proposals that now and the legal authorities, we had to anticipate now, maybe take a break, so that the committee would consider them to the end and take them into account, and we passed that law. I voted for him in that way, even though I realize there are a lot of mistakes and there is a very legal plan. They need to be taken into account, for the Chief Legal Authority’s second reading is quite correct. They immediately offered to reread the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u40	Dear colleagues, we have made the right decision. I would ask the committee to study carefully the comments of the Chief Legal Authority. Thank you. A draft Law on Building Standards is being announced for consideration. The rapporteur is the deputy head of the Committee on Construction, Construction, Housing and Utilities and Regional Policy, please. Kostenko, please. Microphone. Is there a Serb? Who's gonna report from the committee, please? Kostenko, I asked you to turn the microphone on.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u41	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I ask once again to put a motion for a reduced procedure to review the laws. We have many laws and laws that are very important. So I do.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, when we approach the first reading, we will set it up. Now the second reading here is a special procedure and cannot be shortened. So let's go through this chapter first. Are there people present from the committee or not? Well, I'd like to ask my respectable colleagues and committee leaders to stop this inconvenience. Aren't there people we're going to be looking at? A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Prizes is being announced for consideration. Reporter - Gordijenko Sergei Volodymyrovich, Secretary of the Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u43	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! The Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government at its meeting on 11 March 2009 considered proposals from the subjects of the right of legislative initiative to the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Prizes, prepared for consideration in the second reading. [[Registration number 3058]] Eight amendments were made by the Ukrainian national deputies, five of them counted, two in part. The committee concluded that it recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the prescribed draft law in the second reading on the basis and as a whole. There is a suggestion to move on to consideration of the amendments that have come to this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u44	The first amendment is partially taken into account. Oleg Lazko doesn't insist on her? No, it's not. Second readjustment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u45	Vladimir Mikhailovich, here's a question. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office would recommend that, perhaps, it was the committee members who agreed to it after what might have been more likely to be the case, that the title of the article should be: “Production of State rewards and documents that bear witness to their awards”.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u46	Is there no warning if this technical regulation is taken into account? Amendment three. Yuri Carmazin. Yuri Anatolyovich's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u47	Declined by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u48	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to understand the logic, perhaps I won't insist on my amendment, but I want to understand the logic of why we're asking the question that the production of these medals, medals and so forth, is being carried out exclusively by the National Bank of Ukraine's monetary and monetary courts. If possible, other institutions that have issued standards may have done so. And these could be other manufacturers who would offer better terms based on tender procedures. So if I hear an answer, because there is no motivation for deviation, I can change my mind. I'd like an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u49	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. The third and fourth amendments sparked a lively discussion at the committee meeting. But most of the votes were rejected, based on what we're making state rewards, and that's what we have to do with the National Bank of Ukraine's bank-monetary.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u50	Are you insisting on this amendment to the vote? No, it doesn't. Then your eighth amendment is taken automatically. Amendment four. National deputy Kurpil. Are you insisting on her? No, it's not. The fifth is partially accounted for. Please, National Deputy Kurpil, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u51	Dear colleagues! For decades, government jewelry factories have been successful in producing many State rewards. In particular, it is the Lviv State Jewelry Factory. No claims were ever made before the awards were made at this company. So I think that this is a limitation and a reduction in the production of government awards in the banking court alone, it's going to narrow down the quality, and it's going to take away the competitive environment. What reasons are there for disposing of the government’s jewelry companies? People work there and they lose their jobs easily. Why are we doing this?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u52	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u53	So once again, I'm stressing that the proposal, you're talking about the fourth amendment. She found a lively discussion during the committee meeting, but most of the votes were rejected. And so I ask that if you insist, the session room will be defined.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u54	Puts the vote to the vote. Take down the vote. Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u55	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, we can support this amendment, but then we don't need that law. And we're adopting this law, and we're laying down clear rules that all the state rewards from the President's sign, everything that the State rewards, everything that the State makes the documents to them, should be produced at the only enterprise that is a state-owned monetary court, there can be no other. If we want others, we need to take the law off the table, let them make a tender for who I want, so that's a completely different point of the law. Please take this into account when voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u56	Dear colleagues, I'm voting on amendment number four of the People's Deputy Kurpil. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:14:46]] For-60 The decision is not taken. The 5th Anatolia Amendment of Seminoga is partially taken into account. Don't you insist on her? No, it's not. The 8th Yuri Carmazin amendment is being removed accordingly.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u57	It comes out of the logic of the previous amendment and is therefore rejected in the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u58	Dear colleagues, all other amendments are included. A second-reading committee proposal is put to the vote, as a whole, for the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Prizes. Registration number 3058. Please vote. [[11:15:42]] For 347 The law is passed. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft Building Standards Act, 2587, is being announced for consideration. The rapporteur is the deputy head of the Committee on Construction, Construction, Housing and Utilities and Regional Policy of Serbian Yuri Sergiyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u59	Dear colleagues! I want to repeat the meaning of this law. He's making no revolution in the building industry. But if we adopt this law, we're going to have building standards and then we're going to have all of the builders, builders and designers to do these construction standards. Because if you can right now in court, you can right any building code and build it the way anyone wants. What is done under this law. We got 41 comments, 37 comments taken into account. One of the main points was to abolish territorial norms. We basically did it again, we did it. I was approached by a colleague, Vladimir Fedorovich Bevanko, and made another suggestion to article 11. From my point of view, it is not a principle and could be taken into account. When we come to this article, I will read it. All right, thank you for your attention. Please accept the law in the second reading and in general as a law. This is not my decision, this is our committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u60	Dear colleagues, let's go to the repairs. 27th Amendment. The National Deputy of Gorin. It's rejected. Are you insisting on her? No, it's not. Amendment 28 of the Yatzenka People's Deputy. Are you insisting on her? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u61	Dear colleagues! In this case, it is proposed to withdraw from the State procurement legislation the purchase of regulatory services. It's actually a competitive market. There are at least a few institutions that can and should be in competitive ambushes. Therefore, I would like to request my amendment to put to the vote and to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u62	Well, I can explain this amendment. Unfortunately, we have very few institutions that can develop state building standards. The Minregionbud defined these main institutions, based on their potential and experience, as the main ones in the development of these or other building standards by changing DBNs and everything else. If we're going to play in the Tender Chamber right now and we're going to win these tenders from unqualified institutions, we're going to play with you. The committee against this norm and I ask you not to support the amendment of my colleague. Don't support it. Because we, now we're all going to want to change building standards. Sometimes when tenders are won, you know. What we will then have, except for a stable system. Because what is DBN? This is in addition to the fact that the norm and others should be related to other standards. And there are over three hundred of these DBNs. And the bank of this data has only branch institutions, and now they're going to be on the Internet after this law, of course, but it's going to take experience. And for each institution that develops there are five, six experts no more who know how to link all standards so that they do not contradict each other. I'm definitely against it, so let's make a determination and the committee's against it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, Amendments 28 and 29 Jatzenka and Carmazin are called upon to exclude part two of article 9. The argument was made on one side and on the other. So I'm voting on Amendment 28. Ladies and gentlemen, please identify yourself. [[11:20:15.]] For-170. Correction not supported. Well, the 29th amendment is also being removed. Yes, the amendment of the People's Deputy of Goryny, 27th. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u64	But it's actually the same in another interpretation. The point is, I understand what Mr. Serbin is talking about right now, the specificity and limited number of professionals in those organizations that will do this, but the rule should always work. Public procurement should take place on tender terms. The Launch Ministry shall determine the list of organizations that may participate in this, but there shall be a competition. That's the first part of my amendment. And the second part of the amendment is that those funds, the savings funds of the incentive rules that will be set up, just to make it clear that the additional financial resources from the State budget for their establishment will not be created, that no additional money is needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u65	If you don't mind, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'll answer. Well, from the first question, I want to answer to my honorary colleague. Once again, there's only one institution defined in every direction. Determined. We don't have any more. It's not because of everything else. People. It's a specific job and it's only in this institution, well, maybe one, two more professionals. You can't do that. And as for the second amendment, half of the amendment, which sounds like “the creation and storage of building funds are carried out within the limits of the funds allocated for the financing of jobs”, this can be supported. And the first one we're just going to mess up. We're going to put on a stick, we're going to stretch, we're going to go after one performer, and we're going to report that we're good. Is that what it's all about? Why, we no longer trust ourselves and do nothing but harm! Here's an example of the Mini-Defense. Tenders were held, sausages were twice as expensive as they were for. So the price of these tenders?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u66	Microphone, Horina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u67	I understand that if the previous two amendments have not been supported in fact since the first part, let me take into account, in part, my amendment in order to ensure that at least additional money is not specifically allocated to these funds.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u68	I don't know what the committee's gonna say, but I support it. We can take the other half.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u69	Dear colleagues, I'll put this amendment in two parts. I'll read it. First for one vote, then for another. I won't. That's why the committee's backing up. Here we go. The first part. “ Part two of article 9 reads as follows: The purchase of construction work for public funds is done through the conduct of trades. ” [[competitions, tenders]] I'm voting on this part of the amendment. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:23:27]] For 236 Correction supported. Then I make the second part of the amendment: “The creation and storage of building funds is carried out within the limits of the funds allocated to the financing of construction work and does not require additional funding from the State Budget of Ukraine and the local budgets”. [[11:23:59]] For the 320. Decision taken. Please, the microphone. Yuri Carmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u70	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! We did the right thing by voting on Gorina's 27th amendment. But if we voted on the amendment of Gorina, then part of the second article 9 and my amendment should be excluded, because there is an amendment to Gorina and there is a part of the second part in the option that she was offered, it is impossible together, they are mutually exclusive, Vladimir Mikhailovich. So please announce whether it is expelled or put to the vote for its liquidation, this part two. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u71	My dear colleagues, I take it you know that this amendment cannot be ruled out because the Supreme Council did not support it. At the same time, we also need to be aware that the Tender Chamber is immortal in the decision that you voted in, the honourable colleagues. This is how it will be now: no matter how fast we roll, we try to squeeze what is not squeezed. [[B in m in s a l in]] That's what it is now. Please, let's move on to the amendments. [[B in m in s a l in]] That can't be right. Correction 36, People's Deputies Bebezenka. Are you insisting on her? You don't insist, do you?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u72	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, is the Bebezenka amendment. We came up with article 11 in which he suggested this phrase. He's only given up now. “They are not subject to the application of building standards which are contrary to the laws of Ukraine and decisions of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine.” From my point of view, it's butter, but let's still support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u73	What, are you suggesting we support the amendment?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u74	Keep it up, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u75	And the committee rejected her.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u76	No, it wasn't at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u77	I mean, 36 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u78	I mean, the first half can be accepted.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u79	Well, come on, your honors: we're going to determine the position of the committee, and we're not going to improvise now when we get to the session room. Therefore, only amendment 36 can be voted on if the national MP insists. I put her to a vote, that's all. 36th. There's a vote coming. [[11:26:55]] For two. The decision is not taken. Other adjustments are included. All other amendments are included. What are some of the adjustments that may be taken into account? Please, the final position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u80	The committee believes that the law is to be adopted in the second reading and in general. There is such a request.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u81	I would like to vote on the committee's proposal for adoption in the second reading and in general as a bill of the Construction Standards Act. [[Registration number 2587]] [[11:27:48]] For-187 The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u82	Well, there's still an offer to go back to reforming Gorina and to the committee's point of view. I reasoned, so our faction did not vote in order to avoid contradictions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u83	What kind of correction?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u84	To the repair of Gorina. There are two mutually exclusive positions. First position: Mountain.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u85	Dear colleagues, the amendment voted, we can't go back. Let's do it this way, by law: for the second reading again. That's it. And figure out what was offered there. And it's a public occasion to talk about it. I am voting for the second reading of the draft Building Standards Act. Registration number 2587. [[11:28:50]] For 312 Decision taken. The draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Economic Associations on the Non-Proliferation of the Act on the Limitation of the Number of Participants to Registered Associations with Limited Responsibilities, Registration No. 2081, is being announced for consideration. The reporter is Slobodan Alexander Alexandrovich of the Committee on Economic Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u86	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! I'm going to take a moment to recall the essence of this bill. On May 20, 2007, he entered into force of the Ukrainian Act on Change and Recognition of Certain Legislative Acts in connection with the adoption of the Civil Code of Ukraine. This law amends article 50 of the Ukrainian Act on Economic Societies, which establishes the maximum number of members of companies with a limited responsibility of 10 persons. In line with these changes, if societies do not reduce the number of founders to 10 within a year, such associations must be turned into an open stock company or eliminated. It should be noted that at the time of the adoption of these changes in Ukraine, 1 million 186,000 limited - liability societies, many of which have more than 10 founders. In our view, the limitation of the number of founders to 10 has created a particular problem for agricultural societies that do not have adequate material and professional means of doing things for them. the reorganization, including the creation of a mass of conflict situations. In addition, I want to remind you that today the minimum statutory capital of a society with limited liability is 100 minimum wages and shareholders are 12,50 minimum wages. The transformation of society into a stockholder society requires a substantial increase in statutory capital, causing economic losses to the country through the mass liquidation of economic operators. The Economic Policy Committee unanimously supported the bill without supporting other amendments, since the bill relates only to one article – article 50 of the Law on Economic Societies. Please support the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u87	Dear colleagues! Let's do some repairs. First amendment, Valery Pisarenko, is she rejected, do you insist on her? No, it's not. National MP Voropeyev, second amendment, do you insist on it? No, it's not. Valery Pisarenko, fourth amendment, do you insist? No, it's not. Fifth? No, it's not. If you don't insist, Your Honor, is Vladimir Bondarenko here insisting on his amendment? No, it's not. Anatoly Seminoga? The ninth amendment, insists? No, it's not. Pisarenko and Voropeiev do not insist, so we have every reason to vote. Yeah? The proposal for a second-reading committee is put to the vote and, as a whole, as a bill of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Economic Societies concerning the non-proliferation of the restriction of the number of participants to registered companies with limited responsibilities. Registration number 2081. [[11:32:41.]] For 338 The law is passed. Thank you. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on improving bankruptcy procedures and licensing features for the activities of arbitrators]] The rapporteur is the head of the Economic Policy Committee Committee, Alexander Mikolayovich Bondar. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u88	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! You have a very important and complex law that regulates bankruptcy procedures and the specificities of licensing the activities of arbitration officers in the second reading. The importance of this law is foreseen by the fact that the mechanisms of bankruptcy, rehabilitation and the activities of the arbitrators have many complaints now, as a result of which a moratorium has been imposed on the alienation of property in bankruptcy procedures and the task has been to develop three government bills that regulate the order of bankruptcy of enterprises. One of these laws is the law that I report from the committee, the relevance of the law is that now the crisis and very many businesses are subject to these procedures, and we need to improve the procedures, especially the activities of the arbitrators who are to deal with these procedures during the period of bankruptcy. I will remind my fellow national deputies that the main purpose of the draft law is to address issues about the more effective functioning of state enterprises and enterprises in the statutory fund, which have a share of state ownership of more than 25 percent. In order to finalize the bill, a working group was set up in the Economic Policy Committee, which worked on the bill, with leading experts from the State Department for Bankruptcy and Better Specialists, representatives of arbitrators. Many substantial suggestions have been made that have entered the comparative table, since this working group worked under the committee that I lead, most of the amendments have been made on my behalf. These are actually generalized agreed proposals that are made to this law. The project is also designed to amend the law on the licensing of certain types of economic activity in the area of licensing of the activities of arbitrators. These features are aimed at strengthening the control of the government’s bankruptcy authority over the execution of arbitrage orders, property managers, managers, ambulances, and liquidators at the entrance of the bankruptcy case of debtors. The committee believes that all these proposals should significantly strengthen the control of bankruptcy processes, making them more transparent and relevant for the period of crisis, and so on. Taking into account what has been said, the Committee on Economic Policy recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt this bill on second reading and in general. Please support the committee's opinion. Thank you for your attention! Dear colleagues! It's not just two amendments to our colleague of the people's deputy Krutz, it's the 14th amendment. Are you insisting on her? Don't you insist on your amendments? Then all other amendments are taken into account, and the committee proposes to accept them as a law in the second reading and in general. Is there no objection? A proposal for a committee to adopt a draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine is put to the vote as a law. Registration number 2148. That is, in the second reading and generally as a law. [[11:36:59]] For 193 The decision is not taken. Perhaps, fellow believers, we will now listen to the recommendations of the General Legal Authority for a second reading? I'm putting this motion to a vote. Please vote. To the others again. [[11:37:30.]] For-191 The decision is not taken. The law is rejected. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on the formation of statutory capitals of agricultural societies]] Registration number 2639. The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Economic Policy's subcommittee, Yuri Mikolayovich Voropeyev. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u89	Good afternoon, distinguished colleagues! May I remind you, we have already considered this law on first reading. The Committee considered the bill and its amendments and decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine support it on second reading and in general. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this bill has been commented on by the deputy head of the head of the Milovanov administration. This refers to only one document, which is provided here, which is a confirmation by the physicist of its declaration of source of income for the formation of the statutory funds of banks. I would like to recall that banks, financial institutions, form their statutory fund in accordance not only with the Community Act but also with the Banks and Banking Act, which have a separate specific nature. In addition, there are further FATF recommendations and EU directives on this issue, in order to be clear, it is clear how money forms the statutory funds of banks. The recommendation of the Chief Executive is therefore contrary to the Banking and Banking Act and, in this case, I do not think it is entirely correct. What is the point of this law? It is proposed that the statutory funds of public banks be allowed to be established by budgetary means, that is normal, that is correct. In addition, I would like to recall that we have adopted a law here in the Supreme Council of Ukraine that allows the State to now, in times of crisis, also through budgetary means, to form and support the bank's statutory funds. The recommendation of our Committee to the Supreme Council of Ukraine is to adopt it as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u90	Dear colleagues, as amended. Anatoly Seminoga, are you insisting on your amendment? No, it's not. Yuri Carmazin, third amendment, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u91	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like you to consider this. I propose the first sentence of part three of article 86 of the Ukrainian Code of Masters, and I will tell you how it differs from what is currently being proposed in the current version. I suggest this: It is forbidden to use the funds obtained in credit and mortgage to form a statutory fund of society, as well as budget costs. Here I write in brackets “except for the formation of statutory capitals of state banks established by the State Budget Act of Ukraine for the year in question”. It's because we're in a financial crisis right now, honourable national MPs, so we have to assume that there might be cases where these statutory capitals of government banks are formed. In the same project that's being proposed, there's just a reference to the law and everything. “Set by law for banks” is written there. So I don't understand why it improves the law, why the committee didn't take that into account. All of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u92	I would like to draw your attention to the following. The difference between the bill and the amendment of Mr. Carmazin is as follows. The law authorizes, as currently proposed by the Committee, the formation of statutory funds for banks and financial institutions through budgetary resources. Karmazin's amendment says not all banks, but only public banks. But you will recall, please, that, if I am not mistaken, we passed in October a law on urgent measures to maintain the financial system, on the basis of which the decrees of the National Bank of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the recapitalization of commercial banks, were drawn up. This means that if we accept the amendment of Carmazin, the State will not be able to support commercial banks and give money to buy their shares.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u93	Dear colleagues, take the vote. Attention, please. – amendment No. 3 of the People's Deputy of Carmazin. [[11:42:54]] For -14 Correction not supported. Amendment to Yuri Carmazin 5th. Well, it's essentially the same thing. If the Supreme Council did not support it, obviously there is no need to discuss it further. Would you please accept the committee that's offering us this?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u94	Adopt the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u95	Dear colleagues, the committee's proposal is to vote on the adoption of a second reading and generally as a bill of amendment to some Ukrainian legislation on the formation of statutory capitals of farm societies. [[Registration number 2639]] Please vote. Please vote. [[11:43:51]] For-167 The decision is not supported. What's the committee's offer? To the others again? I'm betting on the vote on re-reading the draft law. [[Registration number 2639]] [[11:44:21]] For 329 Decision taken. A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the improvement of legislation on agricultural societies is being announced for consideration. [[second reading]] Reporter: Europeyev Yuri Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u96	The Committee has considered the bill. [[3285]] It has been amended by various Ukrainian people's deputies. They are all included in this bill. And the Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the bill on second reading and in general. I would like to remind all of us that we have adopted the Act on Shareholder Societies, which has already entered into force legally. The bill was submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers before the entry into force and adoption of the Act on Shareholders. Therefore, many of the things that Kabmin has laid down in this bill are consistent and are in line with the law that we have passed with you. Well, in some parts it's kind of a contradiction, and that's why the people's deputies, by making their amendments, have brought the two bills into line. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, after our first reading of the bill, has submitted its comments on this bill, which have been fully taken into account in the finalization of the second reading. Comments were also made by another Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, but they do not concern amendments to the bill itself, in fact, and they have gone further. They are already working on things that we have not fully considered in our Shareholder Society Act. I think that's the subject, and so our committee thinks that this is the subject of a separate bill after we've all experimented with it and worked on the law that has already been passed. I therefore reiterate that the Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the bill on second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u97	Dear colleagues, all proposals for this law are taken into account by the committee. I then put to the vote a proposal for a second reading committee and, as a whole, a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving the legislation on economic societies, registration number 3285. Please vote. [[11:47:34]] For 208 The decision is not taken. I'd like to explain some logic to you, government documents. Let's not bring them in and look at them. On second reading, I put this proposal to the vote. Registration number 3285. [[11:48:09]] For 340. Decision taken. The draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences is the subject of the vote. The rapporteur is the head of the committee's subcommittee on law enforcement, Victor Viktorovich Shemchuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u98	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Law Enforcement has been prepared for a second reading of the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Code on Administrative Violations. The bill proposes to amend articles 107 and 238 of the Code on Administrative Violations with a view to further improving the state regulation of relations with regard to the administrative responsibility for infringements of animal quarantine and other animal health rules. The adoption of this law will allow the Ukrainian Code on Administering Violations to be brought into line with other legal instruments governing the activities of national veterinary health authorities; it will allow for the improvement of the legal regulation of the activities of the State veterinary health authorities to which the veterinary police departments are concerned; and the effectiveness of measures to monitor the quality and safety of food products controlled by the veterinary service; and the improvement of the safety of products coming to the consumer market in Ukraine. Five amendments were made to the draft Law by legal entities. When it was processed and prepared for the second reading, four of them were taken into account in an editorial way and one was taken into account. At its meeting on April 15, this year, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law amending the Code of Administrative Offences on second reading and generally as a law. The Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council appointed the bill without notice. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? All proposals for this law are taken into account. The main legal administration does not have any comments on the completed document. The draft Ukrainian Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences for adoption on second reading and in general as a law is on the vote. Registration number 2609. Please vote. [[11:50:44]] For 292 The law is passed. Announcing the introduction of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on anti-trafficking]] Registration number 3428. The reporter is Sweden's Viktor Dmitrovich. Please, Victor Dmitrovich. So that we can finish the discussion until the break.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u100	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! A committee on law enforcement prepared a second reading draft of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Some of Ukraine’s Anti - Bribery Laws. I want to remind you that on the first reading, this bill was voted by the constitutional majority of the Supreme Council. This means that Parliament unanimously supports the idea of increasing accountability for bribery, including by investigators, prosecutors and judges. The committee took a careful look at the bill. The responsibility for bribery has been deemed to be established since the time of Soviet power. These standards are kind of workable and they don't need change, but it turns out that's not exactly the case. For example, in the footnote to article 368, reference is made to the Law on State Service, but there is no reference to the Law on Service in Local Self-Government. This law was passed after the Criminal Code and was simply forgotten to introduce it to the footnote of article 368 of the Criminal Code. It was an obvious gap, and we're removing this gap right now. What other changes are proposed? The sentence in part three of article 368, Getting a bribe, in the form of 8 to 12 years of imprisonment, has been replaced by a term of 10 to 15 years. The amount of bribes has been reduced in a particularly large way, today it's 150,000 dollars, and the bill offers about 90,000, or 300 untaxed minimums. Judges, prosecutors, and investigators are referred to those who are particularly responsible. The author of the bill suggested that six parts of article 368 be made available for severe penalties for judges, investigators, and prosecutors. This approach in the committee will still be changed, since it significantly changed the appearance of this article, which is common to these bribes. The committee suggested that such responsibility should be foreseen in special articles on law enforcement. These are three articles: unlawful detention, pretrial detention, or arrest, preoccupation for a knowingly innocent person with criminal responsibility, and a judgment that is notoriously unjust. If such actions are combined with large-scale bribes, they are punishable by deprivation of liberty for a period of 10 to 15 years of deprivation of liberty and by certain positions or by some activity for a period of up to 3 years with the confiscation of property. And if they are linked to getting bribes on a particularly large scale, they are punished with permanent deprivation of liberty and confiscation of property. We have also established that amnesty will never spread to persons convicted of bribery in a particularly large way.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u101	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u102	A person who is particularly responsible. In general, 24 amendments were made to the bill, of which 17 were taken into account in whole or in part, and the rest were rejected. In a comparative table, all the motives are set out. Thus, the committee proposes to adopt the bill in second reading and generally as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u103	Dear colleagues, the committee's proposal is well known, and now, if they insist on amendments, we will follow through. Fourth, Yuri Carmazin, do you insist on her? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u104	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I am grateful to the committee for taking into account some of my amendments and for what it did in principle correctly, I agree with what the committee head has said now that he has brought in prosecutors and investigators and everything else into special standards. But the point of my approach is that I want to give a little less visibility to the judges. Therefore, in article 368 of the penalty, I propose that we write down "a fine of 2,000 untaxed minimums" but not as stated in "from 750 to one" this lift, but a clear set of 2,000 and a waiver of the will for five years, not as proposed from 2 to 5. And as much as possible, take away the right to engage in certain activities for 10 years and confiscate property. This is my proposal and I don't understand why it's not counted because it's not an anti-corruption bill that has one of its own.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u105	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u106	Dear Yuri Anatolyovich! We've been very careful about your amendment, but the point is that your proposal for a specific type of punishment is somewhat in violation of the principle of individualization of punishment, first. Secondly, as far as the law is concerned in part to prohibit certain positions for a period of ten years, it is in direct contravention of the current drafting of the Criminal Code. And the law has been fixed for no more than three years.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u107	The vote is amended by the Fourth Jury of Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u108	So we can edit you, but this needs to be changed criminally.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u109	The fourth amendment of Yuri Carmazin is being voted on.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u110	Please reject. [[11:56:54]] For-49
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u111	The decision is not taken. The fifth amendment of Yuri Carmazin
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u112	Dear National Deputies! Yuri Carmazin. I thank those who have supported this approach. I'm sure we'll still come to a change to the general part of the Criminal Code, because there's a maximum of three years to get rid of it. Imagine, a person has been “insured ” for several million or billions. Then she was deprived of three years, and three years later she left and again took office. That doesn't make sense! That's why I'm going to the committee. Ladies and gentlemen, let's make some changes to the general part of the code. And here I propose to write in this paper: “A large-scale bribe, either by a previous conspiracy group of persons, or again, or combined with a bribe, is punishable by 10 years of imprisonment”, and without alternative, 10 years, “and the right to hold certain positions and to engage in certain activities and confiscation of property”. I don't think that's going to give you a lift where they're still taking 10,000 each year. That's five years, 50 years.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u113	Dear colleagues! I've already motivated the position of the committee on this matter. If you agree with Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin's proposal, then the principle of individualization of punishment is violated, first. Secondly, with regard to the limitation of the right to hold appropriate positions, Yuri Anatoliyevich himself realizes that we cannot include this in this law right now, because there are appropriate provisions of the Criminal Code and that we need to amend it first. But the committee supports such efforts to strengthen your responsibility, including with regard to certain positions. But introduce a bill and the committee will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u114	Amendment 5 of Yuri Karmazin is put to the vote. [[11:58:59]] For-26 Correction not supported. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to continue this discussion, and then we'll announce a 30-minute recess. No objections? Thank you. Amendment 6 Yuri Carmazin. It's been proposed here for 15 years.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u115	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, the point is that this is part of the third, where criminal responsibility is anticipated for receiving bribes in a particularly large way. These millions, billions of everything that's going on right now, I propose that it be punished with 15 years' imprisonment and the right to hold certain positions, to engage in some activity for 15 years and to confiscate property. Obviously, this machine should be inserted into the general part of the codex. I thought it was going to be a machine. No, we will now add to the general part of the Criminal Code. But I'm comparing this with -- society has to compare it to the most serious, most serious crime, and that's why it's been treating it for 15 years. I don't agree that this is a hindrance to individualization. There are cases where you can individualize these things. But society has a clear definition that we are against this phenomenon. Period.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u116	Yuri Anatolyovich, you were once a judge, you realize that if we wrote 15 years, the function of the courts would be to judge the person's guilt and record 15 years. However, the Criminal Code provides appropriate provisions that oblige the court to take into account certain other circumstances that, for example, soften the responsibility of the individual. So the committee against your amendment thinks that, but we've partially satisfied it, because we're proposing to set the level of responsibility between 10 and 15. That is, the maximum penalty is in line with your offer. And on the part of being deprived of the right to take office, I've already talked about it. Please reject this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u117	An amendment to Yuri Karmazin’s sixth vote is put to the vote. [[12:01:24]] For the 18th. The decision is not taken. Correction of the eighth Yuri Carmazin. It's essentially the same thing. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u118	Yuri Carmazin. Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, for meeting the amendments, she really has an analogy. Thank God the committee has lifted sanctions by the age of 15, as noted. I propose from this article, I remind you, this part of the fourth is "Getting bribes on an extremely large scale." I mean, super-great-great, right, size? That is to say, it is “punished by the deprivation of liberty for 15 years with the denial of the right to hold certain positions and certain activities and confiscation of property”. So I think it's absolutely right, it's in an extremely large one when we write 15 years without an alternative. We don't say shoot. Because we don't have a shot. And a higher degree of punishment. But this, I think, is a civilized norm, in many countries of the world it is. And it doesn't allow the court to have a lift. That's what's very important.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u119	Dear Yuri Anatolyevich, we have partly considered your amendment. And in that part that doesn't count, I've already set out my motives, and the committee is asking me to reject this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u120	Vote number eight, Yuri Carmazin. [[12:03:06]] For-21 Correction not supported. 9th Amendment. Are you insisting on her? No, it's not. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Are you insisting? No, it's not. Yeah, Yuri Carmazin's 17th amendment. Partially counted. Does that suit you? Thank you. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Don't you insist? 21st, Carmagina, partially accounted for. Okay? Don't you insist? No, it's not. All other amendments are included. Please, Victor Dmitrovitch, what is the committee offering?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u121	Dear colleagues, the committee has adopted a decision, asking the Supreme Council to adopt this law in a second reading and in general. We believe that the adoption of this law will be an extremely important event in our lives, especially since in a few minutes we will be assigning an extremely large number of judges here in the Supreme Council Hall. It will also have great educational significance for the court. Thank you. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u122	There is a motion for a committee to adopt a second reading and, as a whole, a bill amending some of the Ukrainian laws on anti-trafficking. [[Registration number 3428]] [[12:04:53]] For 364 The law is passed. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, we have a recess of up to 12 hours for 35 minutes. After the break, the question of the election and release of judges will be considered.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u123	Invite the national deputies to the session room so that we can continue our work. Dear colleagues, we are under review. Is Sergey Vasilovich Kiwalov here? The question of the election and release of judges is being considered. Let's start the discussion now. And I'm asking you to invite the national deputies to the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u124	Mr. Volodymyr Mihajlovich, honourable national deputies, distinguished representatives, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Justice at its meetings on 13 and 20 May, considered the submission of the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the heads of the Supreme Special Court on the election of judges on an indefinite basis, the election of judges previously elected on an open-ended basis and the submission of the High Council of Justice on the dismissal of judges under general circumstances. You are well aware of the procedure, the judges are in the guest bed and the balcony. Draft Decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine 4466. The committee recommends the appointment of judges on an indefinite basis: the Odessa Court of Appeal – Domuschi Stepan Dmitrovic; Kyiv’s Appeal Farm.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u125	You have a warning about Home, don't you? All right, we've noticed. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u126	The Kiev Court of Appeal, Ivanenko Jan Leonidivna; Simferopol District Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Tomaschak Albert Stepanović; The Ladizín City Court of the Vinnitsk district of Susk Oleg Alexandrovich; Yakimiv District Court of Zaporozhye district of Samylenko Vera Volodymyrna; The Galician District Court of Ivano-Frankiv district of Yusip Irina Mikhailnov; Kirovograd district court of Kirovograd district of Gonchar Volodymyr Mikolaiovich; The Lightwater Regional Court of Kirovograd, Volosin Natalija Leonidivna; Ovidiopolsky District Court of Odessa, Kirichenko Pavel Leontijovich; The Suvorov District Court of Odessa, Vitaly Volodymyrovich; Podgajetski District Court of Ternopil Region of Horuz Ruslan Alexiyovich; The Suvorov district court of Herson Sklarski Irina Volodymyrna; Dniprovsky District Court of Kyiv Sitajlo Olen Mikolaynowna; The Cave District Court of Kiev Karabanya Volodymira Mikolaiovich, Tarasjuk Kristina Eduardo; The Economic Court of the Donetsk Region of Marchenka Oksan Anatoliyevna, Skovorodin Olen Mikolayevna; The economic court of the Kyiv district of Kristinko Olen Alexandrovna; the Economic Court of Kharkiv District of Svetlij Jury Valentinović; The economic court of Sevastopol Dmitryev Viktor Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u127	Sevastopol, right? [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay. Dear colleagues, the National Deputy School has apparently denied two judges, to Domus, yes, Stephen Dmitrovich, so vaguely written. Please, your warnings.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u128	Thank you. Well, I have two judges, so I'd like to add some time. There were a few in Judge Domuschi's work, and I'm just going to name a few decisions. On behalf of the so-called citizen of Shabashova to the “Bistimulator” about the illegal operation of orders and records in the workbook. Caller's decision. on the recognition of a contract-of-use as a valid definition of a partially invalid contract of sale, the definition of ownership. The decision is over. An approved decision. The lawsuit is dismissed because the court’s finding does not correspond to the actual circumstances of the case and to the misapplication of material law. Decision for a citizen of Rudjava to the Odessa District Military Commissioner for Recalculation of Pensions The decision is over. A new decision has been made. The suit is denied. The Court of Appeal noted that the judge had made a mistake in applying material law. So, from this point of view, I don't think we can vote in favour of choosing the House of Stéphane Dmitrovitch judge on an indefinite basis. And give me a moment to tell you about the Light. Thank you. Judge Light Yuri Valentinovich cannot be elected to this office. For example, in the case of the so-called “Harkovi Physico-Technical Institute” to a society with limited liability “Polyauto” on the collection of the corresponding amount and the counterclaim of the TOV “Polyauto” to the said institution on the definition of an invalid contract between them. Judge Svetlikni has been given the decision to settle the lawsuit, and also from the institute to charge for Polyutto with the holding and the costs. The decision of the Kharkiv Court of Appeal annulled such a decision, and the Supreme Court of the Economy of Ukraine decided to leave the decision unchanged on a case-by-case basis. The case for the U.S. State Committee's claim to replace material values, non-quality animal oil and to bring a million dollars to society with limited liability “International Legal and Industrial Organization” and “East of WST”, also on the replacement of material values. These decisions were annulled on appeal. The simple question is: Is such an examination by a Judge of Light an expression of incompatibilities or incompetence? I'd like to find out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u129	Please let us, perhaps, if there are any claims against the judges. Adam Ivanovich, please. Martinyuk, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u130	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, let's be traditional: there are observations to two judges -- we take them out of the ruling, we vote in favour, and then we discuss the issues raised by our colleague at school.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u131	Thank you. Let's do it this way. Now, dear colleagues, we will ask the judges to whom Andrew School has presented the claims, and then we will vote in the established way that we have always voted. Is that why Domuschi Stepan Dmitrovitch is here? Please come to the microphone. And while you go to the microphone, please take the seat of the committee, please, Sergey Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u132	Vladimir Mihajlovich, we have considered all the candidates today, including Domuschi Stepan Dmitryevich, and the second candidate, where the comment was made. The Committee decided unanimously to recommend to the Supreme Council that these judges be elected on an untimely basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u133	Stepan Dmitrovitch, please note the National MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u134	Regarding the civil case, this was in 2006, Shabashov to the Bistimulator, this was a work case that I had considered since the first instance when I worked at the Kyiv District Court. The decision was to settle the lawsuit and resume it at work. The appellate body has cancelled, forwarded for further consideration, and no decision has yet been made. Maybe it'll be the same, or maybe it'll be different. With regard to other cases called, I did not hear all the cases that were, but the percentage of cancellations was lower than the average in court. Every judge has a mistake, so I don't think it's the kind of gross mistake that's led to any consequences. There have been several cases of those that you called cancelled in pension cases when the Code of Administrative Justice was adopted, but the courts have not yet been established. When the time came for the prosecution of these decisions, administrative courts had already been established. And that's why the appeal was canceled because it was being processed procedurally by the wrong code. That’s all, in all five years that.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u135	Thank you. No questions to the judge? None. Have a seat, please. Light Yuri Valentinovich. Where's Yuri Valenovich, is he? Oh, up there. Please, for the claims presented to you by the National Deputy School, what can you say?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u136	I think so. This claim came to me earlier from the Ukrainian national deputy Ribakov Igor Aleksandrovitch. He referred to the six cases. In his letter, he noted that these decisions had been overturned. He also pointed out that I would be voted against by members of his interfractional group “Contrabandi STOP!” on the basis of the possible non-involvement of third parties, the possible failure to give permission to familiarize themselves with the material of the case, the possible misapplication of enforcement measures and so on. In these cases, two of these cases, indeed, were overturned by the Court of Appeal. But by the ruling of the Supreme Court of Agriculture, the ruling of the Court of Appeal had been annulled. And the decision of the first facility, which was taken as a part of me, was left in effect. Two other decisions were overturned, and the Court of Appeal upheld my decisions. The Supreme Court of the Economy overturned the decision of the appeals body, my decision in connection with the incomplete determination of the circumstances, and sent me for a new hearing. As a result of a new hearing in another court, I made the same decisions as I did at the first instance. Another, let's say, is that another fifth decision, it was taken by a college of judges, it was cancelled, yes, I admit. So the two decisions that were, they were overturned, because the courts, the appeals office and the Supreme Court of Commerce gave their assessment to the evidence available.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u137	Thus, your esteemed colleagues, explanations from judges who have been challenged, have been heard. The committee's decision to your knowledge has been proved. The committees unanimously decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the selection of these judges for term. But according to established practice, I will put to the vote the draft ruling, excluding the names of the judges of Domuschi Stepan Dmitrovich, this is the Odessa Court of Appeal, and the Svetlizi Jury Valentinovich, this is the household court of the Kharkiv region. We'll vote the verdict, then the verdict. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'd like to ask your respectable colleagues to see you at the right time. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] What's Vladimir Mikhailovich doing here? I'm not the one making the order. This morning, they all agreed on factions among themselves. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm asking you, we're looking at questions, and you're pretending to be me. Please, come on. [[B in m in s a l in]] What claims do you make to me, I cannot understand? Did you see that they were gone in the morning? Didn't you see? So why aren't you telling me anything? Dear colleagues! The draft ruling of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, excluding the surnames Domuschi Stepan Dmitrović and Light Jury Valentinovich, is on the vote. [[Registration number 4466]] Registration number 4466, please vote. Take down the voting, what other claims? Last name? Come on, please tell me, I think the Supreme Council has Ukraine to wait for you to come.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u138	Horuca Ruslan Alexiyovich is the Podgajetsky District Court of the Ternopil region. After all, Sergey Vasilovich, you have received an extract from the record of the session of the council of judges, where they have indicated that this judge has been violated and have also applied for the responsibilities of head of the Podgajetsky District Court, the removal of Judge Horuz from the monthly allowance and bonus. And because of that, there are a number of serious violations, and therefore I ask you to remove this judge from the ruling.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u139	Please, committee, what's the point?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u140	Vladimir Mihajlovich, I've already spoken to Judge Horusz Ruslan Alexeevich, we've looked at the subcommittee first, and then the committee itself. The Committee itself decided unanimously to recommend to the Supreme Council the referral of such a judge.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u141	Please, Portna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u142	People's MP Portnov, Timoshenko Street. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to reiterate once again that the Justice Committee, by an absolute majority of the votes and probably unanimously supported this judge, has dealt with this issue. And I propose to the people's deputies, regardless of what faction they represent, not to hang labels on judges, but to use constitutional laws and mechanisms that rely on deputies through committee work, by creating committees of appropriate working groups that study these issues in detail. Please support this judge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u143	Let's get this over with. Dear colleagues, we remove the last name of Horusz Ruslan Alexiyovich and vote on the draft ruling, then we will vote in person by person. I am voting on the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine ruling on the election of judges, excluding the names: Domuschi Stepan Dmitrovic, Horuca Ruslan Alexiyovich and Svetlički Yuri Valentinovich, please vote. [[Registration number 4466]] [[12:52:10]] For 231 Decision taken. Now, please, Domuschi Stepan Dmitrovich, the position of the committee once again.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u144	The decision of the Committee was taken to recommend that the Supreme Council should refer the judge to the judge on an uninterrupted basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u145	I am voting for the election of Judge Stéphane Dmitrovich, Odessa’s Administrative Court of Appeal. Please vote. [[12:52:49]] For-40 The decision is not taken. I am now voting for the election of Judge Horusz Ruslan Alexiyyovich, the Podgayetsky District Court of Ternopil. Please vote. [[12:53:18]] For-174 The decision is not taken. I'm voting for the election of Judge Svetlizi Jury Valentinović, Kharkiv County Economic Court. [[12:53:43]] For-23 The decision is not taken. Next order, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u146	4514. The committee recommends that judges be elected on an indefinite basis: the Court of Appeal of the Kyiv District of Gul Viacheslav Volodymyrovic; the Court of Appeal of Kulanda Miroslav Ivanovna; The Biological District Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Chubabria Vachtang Avtandilovich; The Dobrovelkiv district court of Kyrovograd district of Kotka Valentina Viktorovich; The Novopskovsky District Court of the Luhansk Region of Bondar Yuri Alexanderovich; Ochakov City Court of the Mikolai district of Chernienka Sergio Anatoliyovich; The factory district court of Mikolayeva, Sterbino Sergey Viktorovich; The Suvorov district court of Odessa Bobovsky Kostin Yuriovich; The Lenin District Court of Poltava Kononek Sergey Dmitrovic; The Krasnokut District Court of Kharkiv, Caliberd Viacheslav Anatoliyovich; The Berislav District Court of the Hersonian Region of Mirgorod, Valentin Stepanovna; Drabov District Court of Cerkas Region of Zadrodimir Petrovic; Ichnyan District Court of the Chernigiv District of Glaucenka Mikolaajovich; The Lviv District Administrative Court of Thomas Olen Petrovna; the Economic Court of the Viennese Region of Tisetsky Sergiyovich; Economic Court of Zaporozhye district of Cherkaske Vladimir Ivanovich. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u147	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? A draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of judges is put to the vote. [[Registration number 4514]] Please vote. [[12:56:07]] For three hundred Decision taken. Please, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u148	Draft Decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine 4467. The committee recommends that judges previously elected on an indefinite basis be elected as judges. the Court of Appeal of the Kirovograd district of Savechenko Seraphim Onufriyevna; Dnipropetrov's Administrative Court of Appeal, Dadim Julius Mikolayovna; The Kyiv Administrative Court of Appeal of Sweden, Eduardo Yuriovich; Odessa Administrative Court of Appeal Semenyuk Hennady Vasilovich, Turkish Irina Alexandrovna; The Zitomir District Administrative Court of Ivanenko Tetjan Volodymyrna; Luhansk District Administrative Court Borzanitsa Sergey Volodymirovich; The Suma District Administrative Court of Opimah Larissa Mikolayovna. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u149	Dear colleagues, the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of judges is being voted on. [[Registration number 4467]] Your names and court names have just read out. Please vote. [[12:57:31]] For 344 Decision taken. The next 4515 decree.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u150	The committee recommends that judges previously elected on an indefinite basis be elected as judges: The Court of Appeal of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Adamenko Olen Grigorovna; The Kyiv Administrative Court of Appeal, Goraynov Andrija Mikolayovich, Kostuk Love Alexandrovna; Kiev’s Court of Appeal, Kropitna Ludmila Volodymyrovna Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u151	No warning? Please, what's your last name? Please turn on the microphone. Last name. How? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u152	Upon instructions from the members of the People's Self-Defense Group, I ask the colleagues at the Hall to challenge Judge Gorjainov. The judge of the Pecher District Court of Kiev, Goryainov, has on virtually a systematic basis made judicial decisions concerning resonant, socially significant judicial cases, in violation of the Constitution and other laws of Ukraine. Such decisions by Judge Goraynov were further overturned by the courts of the highest courts. Among the achievements of the judge, cases such as the unlawful decision to close the court case concerning the illegal privatization of VAT “Criovorostal”. Thus, the judge has deprived our nationals of judicial protection. This decision has been overturned by a higher court. A well-known decision to acquire shares in the 1+1 channel on the basis of oral arrangements. Such a decision was taken by the public of the country as a personal, Gorajnovsky know-how in the Ukrainian trial. The decision was overturned, and the Supreme Court of Ukraine found a violation of the laws of the judge.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u153	Please enable completion.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u154	Please delete the name of Goraynov from the draft order.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u155	Committee position, Sergey Vasilovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u156	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! You know, with respect to Judge Gorajynov Andrey Mikolayovich, we have dealt with several complaints. We also have answers from the Qieva City and Qualified Commission, the Supreme Court High Qualifications Commission. We also have answers from the Supreme Council of Justice. All complaints that have not been filed with these bodies have not been confirmed. Therefore, at the meeting of the Committee yesterday, we decided unanimously to recommend that the Supreme Council refer the matter to the judge.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u157	Andrew Portnov, please. Then Bondik.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u158	Andrey Portnow, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The judge held a committee for more than six months. It created several working groups and commissions after study. Answers received from qualified commissions, the Council of Judges of Ukraine from the High Council of Justice and the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine. Each of these answers means that this judge is not involved in the incriminating of any of our highly respected Ukrainian national deputies. So the next time the committee reached its conclusion, the majority of the votes recommended that the judge be appointed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u159	National MP Bondik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u160	Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman! Our committee established a working group with me, the chairman of George Carmazin and a member of the commission Sergio Sobolev, which is from various factions. We carefully examined all the complaints that were made by Judge Goryainov. According to our conclusion of the complaints, these were not confirmed because, as our colleague reads, you know, there is a certain tendency, indeed, when in the process of both sides -- the defendant and the plaintiff -- any party will be dissatisfied at all and any party will initiate these tendency complaints. As Sergey Vasilovich correctly pointed out, there are answers to the Council of Judges, the case law worked, that is, appeals to the Supreme Court confirmed the rightfulness of Judge Goryainov. And I think it's, you know, actually because a person has worked and had such a hard time, and that's why someone might be dissatisfied with his decision, but the decisions are all confirmed by court practice. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u161	Dear colleagues, let's make this progress: we will remove the name of Goryainova Andrija Mikolaiovich from the draft decree, we will vote on the ruling, and then we will vote separately on this candidature. Is there no objection? I'm voting on the draft of Decree 4515 on the election of judges by removing from this draft a ruling called Goraynov Andrija Mikolaiovich. Please vote. [[13:02:42]] For 361 Decision taken. Now, honourable colleagues, I am voting for the election of Judge Goraynov Andrija Mikolaiovich, the Kyiv Administrative Court of Appeal. Please vote. [[13:03:12]] For 203 The decision is not taken. Next order, please. What? What suggestions? [[B in m in s a l in]] Turn it back? [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's, dear fellows, if there's no objection, there's a denial, let's have the committee look at it, then let's vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, they deny it, dear fellows! They deny it. Please, Efraemov Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u162	Vladimir Mikhailovich, well, I don't think the MPs have been able to organize anything. One faction denies that this is the problem of one faction. A vote will be shown. If the votes are not enough to go back, then the question will be taken off itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u163	Dear colleagues, I have. Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich, I have such an offer. Let's move forward this way, let's finish the discussion. May I have your attention, please? Dear colleagues, let us conclude our consideration of these regulations, and then I will put to the vote to return to the consideration of all those candidates who have not found support under different circumstances. Every single one, I mean. Then it will be. It won't be. It won't be. All of it! But there has to be one approach then. You agree with me, I think. Decision 4516, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u164	The Committee recommends, in connection with the submission of a notice of resignation, that the judges be dismissed: the Court of Appeal of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea of Tobacco Mikhail Stepanović; the Court of Appeal of Chernigiv districtJushchenko Nela Viktorovna; Amur-Pozniprost District Court of DnipropetrovskaTkacha Mikola Yasonovich. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u165	No warning? I'm voting on a draft ruling, registration number 4516, on the dismissal of judges. Please vote. [[13:05:21]] For 349 Decision taken. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u166	Draft Decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine 4468. On May 13, 2009, the committee decided not to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the selection of the written Aleksija Anatoliyevich as judge of the Lenin District Court of Kirovograd on an uninterrupted basis. [[One held up]] The decision was taken taking into account the information contained in the complaint made by the Ukrainian National MP on the fifth call of the Sadducee, regarding the gross violation by the judge of the requirements of the current legislation when considering the a rave for the appointment of a candidate for the post of the city of Korovograd. Please support the committee's decision and do not vote in favour of Decree 4468.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u167	Andrew Portnov, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u168	Andrew Portnov, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you what this is about. Your opinion is now proposed by a judge who in a few minutes before the deadline for the final registration of candidates for the post of the city of Korovograd managed to make a decision that effectively deprived a person -- I don't care what political power it was -- deprived a person of his right to be elected. This judge was a reporter in the trinity where one of the judges had already held a parliament and was a parliament not recommended to take office as a judge and actually ceased his activity. The committee unanimously invited the Supreme Council of Ukraine to suspend this high - ranking judge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u169	There's no other offer? That's why I'm putting to the vote a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of the written letter, Alexy Anatoliyovich, as judge of the Lenin District Court of Kirovograd. [[Registration number 4468]] The voting process is under way. [[13:07:43]] For -6 The decision is not taken. Yeah, let's keep going. Is that all you have?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u170	Draft Decision of the Supreme Council 4517. Ladies and gentlemen, on May 20, 2009, the committee decided not to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the election of Antonova Natalija Volodymyrna to serve as the judge of the Gaussian District Court of Kiev on an uninterrupted basis. The decision was taken by taking into account the information given in the address of the Ukrainian national deputy, Lukash, regarding the gross violation by the judge of the requirements of the current legislation when deciding to repeal the criminal offence order on the grounds of the crime, provided for in the second part of article 286 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code, a violation of the rules on road safety. Please also support the committee's decision and do not vote in favour of the bill. Antonova herself did not appear today at a meeting of the Supreme Council, and you have a telegram.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u171	Dear colleagues, we have a conflict here. Here I was just handed a telegram and from a committee on fixed treatment and asked to consider the matter in her presence, and these two telegrams were handed over to my name. So maybe that's how we are. Well, your honor. I read it to you. Please, Olena Lukash microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u172	Thank you. Dear colleagues! It is very difficult to say in a minute that it has been wise to create this judge by repealing the decision to initiate a criminal case involving the murder of a young girl, resident of the village of Palchik of Cherkas district of Ludmila Lysenko, a majeure boy. Yesterday, at a meeting of the Committee, I was supported by all the representatives of all political parties in Parliament, with video, photo, documentary data. The judge himself admitted to the transcript of the video, admitted her error, and asked her to forgive her for it. That's why I think today's telegram is manipulation to stay in office. I ask you to put this order to a vote, as provided for, since no telegrams are provided for by our Rules or by other acts. I believe that a man who covers a murderer cannot be a judge and bear that high rank. I'm asking the whole room to back me up, because there's no one more to stand for a murdered girl's mother than us.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u173	Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u174	Yuri Carmazin. Dear people's deputies, it's obvious that the step taken is just a trick to delay time. To take time and continue to count as a judge. Last night we examined the presence of this one, with the permission to tell the judge all the circumstances. We looked at and studied all the materials that she had canceled. She actually wouldn't let the investigation move. That's the problem. In doing so, she was totally unconscious. So we met all the requirements of the law. Yesterday we discussed her participation. Today, nothing obliges us to postpone meetings. We don't have that standard. I think the committee has worked it out in detail. This is a rare case where 100 percent, all of them, voted in an open manner for not having this right. I ask and insist on voting today, and I support my colleague Lukas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u175	Sergey's got it, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u176	Sobolev, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko”. Vladimir Mikhailovich, yesterday this judge was present at the committee meeting. We've given the committee literally an hour of time to figure out the details of every fact that's been going on. Her absence today is her will. The hall has to be determined. There was a unanimous committee decision yesterday. Request to put this to a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u177	Yes. Dear colleagues, I'd like to make sure there's no charges later. No one would object to any objection. That's right. Who would object to considering this issue because of the absence of a judge? Is there a denial? None. So I'm voting on draft decision 4517 on the election of the judge: to elect Antonov Natal Volodymyrovna to serve as judge of the Glossiev District Court of Kiev on an uninterrupted basis. [[13:12:59]] For-0 The decision is not taken. Now, honourable colleagues, since there was an offer to go back to the question of individual judges, in order to preserve justice, I will put the question back on the table for each of those who have been warned and decided not to do so. No warning? Yes, what warnings if. Please use Sergey Sobolev's motives.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u178	Vladimir Mikhailovich! I would like to remind you of the rule of law that is now in force, which allows you to put twice the voting position of judges who have not passed. If we do now that we do not vote for them again, the committee will never be able to come back to the question of these judges. So there is a request, there is a general practice, there are appropriate working groups in these committees, and there is a request to allow the committee to return to these issues, and then to bring them back to the room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u179	Dear colleagues! In this regard, the pressure remains in force so that we can return to the consideration of the matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u180	Vladimir Mikhailovich, didn't we vote for Gorajny?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u181	In Gorjeni we voted and found no support.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u182	No, we didn't vote, we didn't remove it, we didn't.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u183	Alexander Efraemov, please microphone. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u184	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I think we could make both the wolves full and the sheep whole. We put the vote back to the vote, if there are votes, then it is understandable that the goodwill of the deputies will vote in favour. If there are no votes, then you ask the question to return to the committee, and everything will be fine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u185	Dear colleagues! So let's get out of this situation this way. For everyone, I'm going to put, on a stand-by basis, a return to the vote. If a return to the vote is not supported, then the committee shall reconsider. If we vote in favour and there are no 226 votes, then there will be no return. It's an obvious offer. No warning? I'll put it to a vote. Please, Vadim Koleschenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u186	Dear colleagues, we are not currently re-voting. Since the deputies said that they had failed to vote, it was proposed to return to the first vote, not a second vote. According to the names of those candidates that we voted on, did not vote on, the MPs said that they had failed to vote, it was not a re-vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u187	Ladies and gentlemen, let's see if we can make this happen in such a way that we don't have a vote that we haven't been able to vote on. So I would like to pay attention to the vote on the return to the candidature of Domuschi Stepan Dmitrovich, Odessa Administrative Court of Appeal. [[13:16:39]] For-29 We're not back. Please let the committee further study this issue. I continue to vote on the return to the candidature of Horusz Ruslan Alexiyovich, the Podgayetsky District Court of Ternopil. [[13:17:10]] For -8 The decision is not taken. There is a motion for a return to the question of the appointment of a judge to the termless judge, Svetlí Jury Valentinović, as the household court of the Kharkiv region. [[13:17:37]] For-0 Clearly, the decision is not made. I am voting for the return to the candidature of Goraj Andrija Mikolaiovich for appointment as judge on an indefinite basis, the Kyiv Administrative Court of Appeal. Please vote. [[13:18:06]] For 213 The decision is not taken. For three candidatures for which the Supreme Council of Ukraine has not been determined in the plan of return to review, I ask the Committee to conduct an additional study. Yeah, that's it? Question completed. Dear colleagues! On your behalf, we welcome judges who have been elected judges on an untimely basis, wishing success in their work, based solely on the laws of Ukraine. Thank you! [[Applause]] Yes, we continue our consideration of the second reading procedure. A draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Libraries and Library is being announced for consideration. Rapporteur, head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality of Kosov Mikhailo Vasilovich. Mikhail Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u188	The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council, distinguished colleagues of the National Deputies! The Library and Library Law was passed on January 27, 1995, and I had the privilege of reporting this law and of being the author of this law. During these 14 years that have passed, of course a great deal of legal instruments have been adopted that are directly relevant to this law. There was also a need to clarify some of his positions. In particular, article five, which defines the status of the activities of libraries and what is a library matter, especially in the unanimous opinion of scientists from the National Academy of Sciences, the leading librarians and the members of our committee, we define this area of activity as scientific and educational. And I understand that you're learning the difference between science and science and education, which is, as it were, popular, and from here, changes to article 30, which determine the status of librarians. 59 proposals were made to the law. A large part of the proposals made by the national deputies are included. Part is partially counted or counted editorially. I propose that you come up with the definition of all the observations and suggestions that have come from you, the honourable national MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u189	So let's move on to the amendments. Amendment number 3. Sergey Tereshukka, are you insisting on her? No, it's not. Amendment 5. Landik, are you insisting on her? No, it's not. Amendment 17. Anatoly Seminoga, do you insist on her? No, it's not. Amendment 23. Sergey Rybuk, insist? No, it's not. 28th Tereshuk. Don't insist. 36th Tereshuka. I can't see. Carpuk 37. Are you insisting? No, it's not. Amendment 45 Tereshuk. Don't insist. Amendment 55 Tereshuk. Don't insist. All other amendments are included. The committee's proposal to enact the law. No objections? I put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Libraries and Library Affairs in second reading and in general as a law. Please vote. Registration number 3077. [[13:23:03]] For 295 Decision taken. The law is passed. A draft Act amending article 14 of the Ukrainian Law on State regulation of the production and circulation of ethyl, horse and fruit, alcoholic beverages and tobacco products is being announced for consideration, registration number 2461. [[concerning the export of ethyl alcohol]] The rapporteur is the Secretary of the Tax and Customs Policy Committee, Vaschuk Katerina Timofievna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u190	Dear Head, the country's distinguished deputies of Ukraine! I recall briefly the essence of the bill and the purpose of its adoption. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, by submitting this bill for consideration, was aimed at preventing violations of the legislation on the protection of economic competition and creating a level playing field for all ethyl alcohol-producing enterprises in the course of their activities related to the export of alcohol. In addition, we propose to bring the law into the household by its text, the subject of entrepreneurship and the enterprise, to be changed to terms: the subject of farming in different terms and numbers. As required by law. In the course of the committee’s second reading, we were approached by national deputies and most of the Ukrainian cognac manufacturers on a standard that takes effect from 1 January 2010 and provides for licenses to produce cognac and alcoholic beverages for cognac technology only to entities that use at least 25 percent of the alcohol of their own production. The proposal of the Ministry of Economics, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Agriculture says that this is not a completely valid norm that does not comply with obligations when entering the WTO. But we held three round tables with factory directors, cognac manufacturers, representatives of all ministries. Together, we've reached a compromise, taking into account all positions we're proposing to leave this rule behind, but to postpone the implementation of this standard for three years, that is to say, that's what we're doing today. And they're going to be able to make cognac in themselves, smoke these horse alcohols, because their licenses only started this year. Until then, they had been unable to smoke those alcohols. If we do not take this rule down, many businesses will not be able to continue their production. They appealed to the committee, and most of them were supported by the committee. Therefore, we suggest that the law be passed in the second reading and in general. Most of the proposals made by the national deputies are taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u191	Dear colleagues, there are no two amendments to the people’s parliament of Terhochin. This is the sixth amendment. Sergey Anatolyevich, please, according to your correction. Does he insist on it?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u192	He doesn't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u193	Well then, obviously, it doesn't insist, and the next amendment, that's the 12th amendment? There's another amendment of the Bondarenko People's Deputy. Does a colleague insist on it? No, it's not. Please, Catherine Timothy, offer the final committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u194	The proposal is to accept it as a law in the second reading and generally as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u195	Please turn on Yuri Carmazin. 10 revisions. What's on the 10th?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u196	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Catherine Timofievna, I agree with what's been going on for three years, that's right, because only the monopolies were actually lobbying, if you don't change that law. But my amendment applies, this is the 10th, honourable national MPs, look, it's partly accounted for, but the second part of it, where it's proposed in part seven of article 14 to put it this way: “Licensions are issued by the central executive authority on matters of government administration in the field of agriculture, the planting of the food industry for a term of five years, and licence fees are included in the public budget,” it is not included. I continue to propose part 9 of article 14 in such an edition “undertakings, producers of ethyl alcohol, are implementing it for export through a state-owned enterprise”. This is counted. And the part I said, it's not counted. So I don't understand why we didn't do it. Look, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u197	In fact, Yuri Anatoliyovich, it is included in the preceding articles, all the contents of the preceding articles. Indeed, the license fee is still part of the State Budget. And the second one is completely in your line of work.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u198	Please. Yuri Carmazin takes his warning off. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? The proposal for a second reading committee is put to the vote as a bill amending article 14 of the Ukrainian Law on State regulation of the production and circulation of ethyl, horse and fruit, alcoholic beverages and tobacco products. [[concerning the export of ethyl alcohol]] Registration number 2461. Please vote. [[13:29:27]] For 333 The law is passed. A draft Act amending article 26 of the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Status of Foreigners and Persons Without Citizenship is being announced for consideration. The rapporteur is the head of the Subcommittee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations of Helen Fedorovna Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u199	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Your opinion is proposed by the draft Act amending article 26 of the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Status of Foreigners and Persons Without Citizenship. [[in the second reading]] The draft law proposes to supplement article 26 of the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Status of Foreigners and Persons Without Citizenship with a new part to which foreigners and stateless persons who do not have passports will leave Ukraine for the testimony of a foreigner and a stateless person to return. The committee received two proposals from Ukrainian national deputies, one of them being counted. The committee proposes to adopt the law in second reading and generally as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u200	Dear colleagues! Anatoly Seminoga insists on his second amendment, which is not counted? Oh, no? The committee proposes to approve the draft law as a law. I am voting on this proposal: the adoption of the draft Law amending article 26 of the Law on the Legal Status of Foreigners and Persons Without Citizenship in the second reading and generally as a law. [[Registration number 2254]] Please vote. Please vote. [[13:31:24]] For-141 The decision is not taken. Committee proposal, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u201	On the second one, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u202	Dear colleagues, the committee's proposal is to re-read. But there's nothing to bet on here again. At the same time, in order to perhaps find compromise and understanding, please, fellow believers, pay attention. I would like to vote on sending the draft Act registration number 2254 for re-reading. Please vote. [[13:32:13]] For-200 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the protection of the rights of the child under custody is being announced for consideration. [[care]] Registration number 2122. The rapporteur is a member of the Committee on Legal Policy, Knyazevich Ruslan Petrovich. Who of the Legal Policy Committee will report this law? Dear colleagues, there have been three amendments to this law, all taken into account. Why don't we put him to a vote? I am voting on the proposal of a second reading committee and, as a whole, as a bill of the bill amending certain Ukrainian laws on the protection of the rights of the child under care. Registration number 2122. Please vote. [[13:33:39]] For 337 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the morning meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine continues for up to 14 hours. A draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the promotion of production and the use of biological fuels is now under consideration. The rapporteur is a member of the Committee on Fuel and Energy, Nuclear Safety and Nuclear. nuclear policy and nuclear security Pashin Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u203	Good afternoon, dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! The Act on Amendments and Supplements to some Ukrainian legislative acts on the Promotion of Production and Use of Biological Fuels has in fact been developed for two years. There were numerous scientific and expert conferences, round tables, working group meetings, collected ideas from producers, the ministries of profile and so on. There's a lot of resonance in society, in the media. Everyone understands the need for our nation to adopt an appropriate law in order, in effect, to create a new industry in Ukraine. The point is that so many and national deputies took part in the preparation of the law, thanking them. And notice that we have tried to make this law not just a declaration, but to introduce effective mechanisms that will actually enable us to move from multiple declarations to real production and introduction of alternative types of biological fuels. Almost all the proposals were taken into account. I would like to point out that several of Mr. Carmazin's suggestions are not taken into account for any reason. And I would also like to see, Mr. Chairman, accidentally in the text of the bill, in the codes of customs, the code of washing machines. We're no longer prescribing. Code 845020, I ask you to rule out which has nothing to do with this law. In general, I look forward to supporting our bill, and I am convinced that the adoption of this law will make it possible to put its position into practice in practice and virtually replace much of the imported energy on our natives. These are both rare species, and biological gases, and solid renewable fuels. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u204	Dear colleagues, let's move on to the amendments. 4th Amendment, Roman Tuck. Are you insisting on her? No, we're filming. Correction of the 15th Yuri Carmazin. Yuri Anatolyovich, do you insist on her? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u205	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I have examined the entire bill now in its entirety. For when you make adjustments, you see only the first reading. Now you see the whole bill. Fifty percent of my amendments are taken into account. For the economy of time, I ask you not to consider other amendments, they are complemented by more or less other amendments by other people's deputies. And this law can be voted on as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u206	Thank you. Dear colleagues, all the other adjustments.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u207	Dear Chairman, one point. The recommendation of the Supreme Council Legal Authority has been abandoned by previous practices. And when they wrote down what equipment, they included codes, specific codes, customs codes. But I am convinced that in the process of implementing this law there will be a need to expand the list of equipment in order to create an effective mechanism. We have a list of customs codes that match this equipment. I would like to add additionally that the list could be completed by the Cabinet of Ministers, in agreement with the Committee of Profiles, so that we do not come back every time and make any changes to the bill. Because once again, I want to emphasize, we've given up the general phrase, and we've just listed the equipment according to the code, the exact equipment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u208	Roman Tchac, please. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u209	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear Mr. Sergey! I've also done about 30 amendments, a lot of them counted, and those that are rejected-- I don't insist, for the economy of time, please don't call it any more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u210	Dear colleagues! Sergei Tereshuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u211	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! My corrections are all taken into account, but one of them fell out, and it's gone. Not counted or rejected. This refers to the position that permission, or more precisely the list of enterprises producing this product, is established by the Cabinet of Ministers. I suggested that this article be deleted. If a license is issued, the Cabinet of Ministers has something to do with it. It may make sense to delete this article when voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u212	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u213	I don't think it matters. In fact, two kinds of biological fuel, I can explain why, gas, because it's gas and liquid fuel, because it's alcohol actually, it's licensed. In principle, this list is necessary as a technical fixation, it's not a license or a license, because this activity, it's licensed. I ask the honourable deputy not to insist, she has no internal contradiction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u214	Yes, the warning has been withdrawn. What else are the observations? I can't see. I'll bet you a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u215	With my amendment to the list of additions, if possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u216	I am voting on the committee's proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, as a law, a draft law amending certain legislative acts.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u217	With my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u218	With this amendment, yes. On the adoption in second reading and in general, as a law, of the Draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the promotion of production and the use of biological fuels. Registration number 1114, please vote. Please vote. [[13:40:24]] For 234 The law is passed. A draft Coal Gas Act is being announced for consideration. Reporter also Pashinski Sergey Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u219	Regrettably, our entire nation will learn from time to time about the problem of carbon dioxide in connection with the number of accidents caused by this gas. [[methane]] The problem is extremely acute and the bill proposed for consideration in the second reading attempts to resolve the problem. There are three points that I'd like to pay attention to. First of all, in Ukraine, experts estimate coal gas reserves to be 10 trillion cubic meters. [[methane]] Sadly, though, there are no effective mechanisms for stimulating and extracting this gas today. I would like to point out that only the “Assistant” mines of Efim Zvigilski actually disposes of and extracts carbon gas, which unfortunately is only embryonic. [[Methane]] This law pursues three points. First, it's a clear distinction and a clear statement of who has the right to extract gas, regulation from the point of view of the owner of the mining drain, regulation from the point of view of the owner of the operating mine, the closed mine, and so forth. [[Methane]] Second, this law clearly protects the rights of investors who can invest in active mines and the law prevents their loss. Thirdly, we've studied the world's experience carefully, in all countries of the world, the fact is that the cost of gas production is quite high and not always competitive. [[methane]] Globally, gas is stimulated in some way or other. [[methane]] By the way, it will be interesting to know that in the United States, 50 billion cubic meters are produced. [[Methane]] That's why we're proposing that we release the activity from gas production from income tax. [[methane]] It's the fourth time. We clearly regulate gas transport, gas pricing. The thing is, if this gas is produced, you know that we have gas prices strictly regulated by the National Commission for the Settlement of Electricity. [[Methane]] The law provides that the owner of the gas, if not obtained at the expense of the budget, sets the prices for its own needs. [[methane]] There is also a clear possibility of transporting gas through gas distribution networks and highways and local ones. [[methane]] The bill has also been worked on for a long time, the committee has taken into account all the amendments, almost all the amendments made by the deputies, I would like to thank the MEPs of Europe, Koržu, Boguslaev, Dubov, Royal and others. In fact, a lot of amendments were made by the Cabinet of Ministers. I think we've taken into account all of the conceptual things and this law will allow us to move on to practical realization of such an important problem for our State.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u220	Dear colleagues! Let us follow the amendments, and I would ask that we immediately proceed to the amendments, for the importance of the Law was justified when we considered it in the first reading. Fourth Amendment. Pashinsky, you don't insist on her, do you?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u221	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u222	Fifth. Voropeyev and Korge, do you insist? No, it's not. Taking the picture Let's go now. The Queen's insistence? No, it's not. Boguslaev? No, it's not. Royal? No, it's not. Voropeyes. 32nd, do you insist? No, it's not. It's a royal one. 34th, no insistence. Voropeyes. 36th, you insist? Boguslav. 43rd. No, it's not. All other amendments are included. The committee proposes that, honourable colleagues, approve the draft Law. I'm voting on a proposal for a second-reading committee and, as a whole, a bill of the Coal Gas Act. Registration number 1123. Please vote. [[13:45:13]] For 359 The law is passed. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on the exercise of State oversight from nuclear and radiation security]] The reporter is once again Sergey Volodymyrovich Pashinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u223	Dear colleagues, this bill essentially brings editorial rights to existing legislation and flows from our international ratified, by the way, the Supreme Council of Treaties, essentially all these changes are legal. This is the appointment of the Chief Inspector. He used to go to the Ministry, and now he's assigned to the Cabinet of Ministers. In principle, the law carries, let's say, a technical nature and just adapts our legislation with international legislation, which we have joined in the field of state oversight from nuclear and radiation security.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u224	Dear colleagues, it is legal that the words “the Chief State Inspector for Nuclear Safety of Ukraine” should be replaced by the words “the Chief State Inspector for Nuclear and Radiation Security of Ukraine”, i.e. this is an editorial law. I would like to vote on the adoption of the second reading and, in general, as a bill of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on the exercise of State oversight from nuclear and radiation security]] Registration number 3017. Please vote. [[13:46:53]] For 329 The law is passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u225	Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u226	A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain activities is being announced for consideration. [[on the aviation industry]] Reports from Valérie Grigorovitch Kraney.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u227	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship has revised the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of economic activity on aviation industry. Number 2311, adopted by the Supreme Council on March 18, this year. The purpose of the bill is to address the issues that have arisen in the aviation industry by introducing licensing activities for aircraft engines, parts and aircraft equipment and other aviation technology. The bill contains three comments that are included. Considering that the individual provisions of the bill do not conform to the principles of public policy in the field of licensing in the field of equality of rights, the legality of the interests of all operators and the establishment of a single order of licensing of economic activities, the members of the committee agreed with the text of the bill prepared for the second reading and proposed that the hall accept it as a whole as a law. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u228	Dear colleagues, the amendments to this law are all taken into account. The committee proposes to accept it as a law in the second reading as a whole. Is there no objection? I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. This is about the adoption of a second reading and generally as a bill of a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of economic activity. [[on the aviation industry]] Registration number 2311. Please vote. [[13:49:14]] For 321 Decision taken. The law is passed. A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on licensing activities for development, production and implementation of technical and other means of rehabilitation is under consideration. The reporter, Valery Grigorovitch Kraney. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u229	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The Committee on Industrial, Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship has revised the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on the License of Activities, Development, Production and Implementation of Technical and Other Rehabilitation Measures, adopted by the Supreme Council on March 18, this year. The purpose of the bill is to bring the Ukrainian Rehabilitation Act into line with the Ukrainian Act on the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine and the Ukrainian Law on the Licensing of Certain Economic Activities. There are 4 comments to the bill, 3 of which are included. The amendment of national deputy Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, who proposes not to amend article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of economic activity, was rejected. This is the main purpose of the bill. A comparative table to the bill is discussed in the committee on April 14, this year, supported by it and decided to propose to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt the bill in second reading and generally as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u230	Thank you. Yuri Anatolyevich, are you insisting on your amendment? Microphone, please, Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u231	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not insist on this amendment, and I think you can accept it as a whole, this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u232	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u233	A second-reading committee proposal is put to the vote and, as a whole, a bill amending certain Ukrainian laws on the licensing of activities for the development, production and implementation of technical and other means of rehabilitation. [[Registration number 3287]] Please vote. 3287, we have to vote him. [[13:51:29]] For 252 The law is passed. A draft Law amending certain legislative acts to minimize the negative effects of the financial crisis on economic operators is being announced for consideration. Royal Natalia Yuriovna, please. Who? Then let us postpone, for a great law must be reported to him by the chairman of the committee. Let's put it down then. A draft law amending the Ukrainian Advertising Act, registration number 3081, is being announced for consideration. [[on bringing into line with the European Convention on Transboundary Television]] Helen Bondarenko, please, from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u234	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Bill number 3081 on the introduction of the Ukrainian Advertising Act in accordance with the European Convention on Transborder Television. The authors suggest introducing new terms as well as banning telesales of medicines, methods of prevention, diagnostics, treatment, rehabilitation, and medical techniques that require special knowledge and training. This is also true of sponsorship. But the Freedom of Speech Committee considered the bill and initially recommended that it be adopted on second reading. Unfortunately, however, the amendments that we have made have already become obsolete because Europe has adopted new directives to the European Convention on Transboundary Television, Ukraine has fallen behind in this issue and we now need to reintroduce new amendments. The Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information therefore invites you to re-read the bill. We very much ask you to support us in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u235	Yes, now as amended. Number. First. Sergey Tereshuk insists? What?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u236	We ask for a second reading. We're asking for another second. No amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u237	Don't worry about the amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u238	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u239	No objections?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u240	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u241	I would like to vote on the second reading of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Advertising Act. [[on bringing into line with the European Convention on Transboundary Television]] Registration number 3081. Please vote. [[13:54:24]] For 306 Decision taken. A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the protection of children's rights is being announced for consideration. Registration number 2409. The reporter is Eugene Ivanovich Suslov. Who will report from the committee? Dear colleagues! We have considered this law. Given the importance of it, let's take a look at it as amended. Just a minute. The rejected amendment by Yuri Carmazin No. 18 Are you insisting on her? Don't insist. Roman Mikhailovich, please. All other adjustments are included. Chef Roman Mikhailovich, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u242	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I will apologize, but there is such a situation with this law that if it is accepted in such an order, there will be a need for the Ministry of Justice to pay for the information and technical support of the court. So I would ask your forgiveness and give me the opportunity to make an amendment out of the voice to remove this problem. I don't think the content of my amendment is going to provoke opposition. If you'll excuse me. So I propose to add part five of article 81 of the Civil Procedure Code to the following paragraph: “The costs of information and technical security in matters relating to the protection of the rights of minors or minors and their interests are not to be paid when the representation in court is in accordance with the law or international agreement which consents to the obligation given. “ I don’t know
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u243	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u244	The Supreme Council of Ukraine is carried out by the Ministry of Justice and Child Care and Services.” [[Four]] If we don't take this correction into account, then the Justice Department will have to cover certain expenses. So I would ask that I still have the opportunity to make and support this amendment out of a voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u245	Dear colleagues, one minute! Well, you realize we can't accept the amendment from the voice. There may be an amendment to the amendment if it is, but we cannot from a voice. Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u246	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, Vladimir Mikhailovich! All my revisions on this rereading are counted or partially counted. And here I want to go to our colleague, Roman Zvaric, to correct the 19th. This is an amendment to our respectable colleague, Lucian Catherine. It's taken into account, this amendment, just as Mr. Roman Zvaric is now asking the question. Look at it, please: “The costs are not to be paid. — and so on — which are published by the Ministry of Justice or the bodies of care and care or service in matters.” It's the cost of information and technology. This is the same amendment that Catherine Lukyanov took into account. So there is absolutely no need then, a colleague, to vote for it, because it is already in the law, and twice it is not needed. So, Vladimir Mikhailovich, she is.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u247	Truly, fellow believers, on page 7, this amendment was made in advance by a colleague named Lukyanov, and it is counted. Therefore, my honourable colleagues, I am voting on the proposal of a second reading committee and, as a whole, the bill of amendment to some Ukrainian legislation on the protection of children's rights. Registration number 2409. Please vote. [[13:58:46]] For 331 The law is passed. Dear colleagues, we have here in this way: I've announced the continuation of work up to 14 hours 15 minutes, and next we have to consider the draft Law on Physical Culture and Sports, the new edition. It's very big, we won't be able to see it. Maybe that's how we'd do it. One minute! Now. No, no! Well, we have here a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on hourly pay. We'd be determined by this law, and we'd move on, wouldn't we? [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, that's it. It's been announced for up to 15 minutes. Jaroslav Mikhailovich. One moment, please, for the sake of this law. [[B in m in s a l in]] I can see it, I can see it! I heard. I heard you. Jaroslav Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u248	Dear colleagues, Bill 3253 worked on the committee. Bill 3253 has all the responses of ministries, departments, departments, the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. I want to remind you that this is our hourly salary, this is our commitment under the European Social Charter, which we ratified with you and reported to the Council of Europe in October on the implementation of the requirements that we have assumed: the hourly payment of work we have entered as such as the state social standard that will be accepted. For someone else to have doubts, colleagues: a Ukrainian metallurgy, an hourly wage of $2.5; an American $40; a European $46; a Japanese $48. As a matter of fact, this field is integrated into the world distribution of labor. Because the pay system in Ukraine needs improvement. On the one hand, Ukrainian wages do not contribute to the reintroduction of labour, and the labor theory has not yet been reversed. On the other hand, wage dynamics do not depend entirely on productivity. Therefore, the introduction of a new standard, which, by the way, is foreseen by the basics of Ukrainian legislation, including the Basic Law on State Social Standards and State Social Guarantees, will contribute to the social protection of the person’s work, especially under part-time working conditions. There's deviations, there's corrections in the compare table. If you have any comments, a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u249	Dear colleagues, the comparative table is given to you. I asked.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u250	3253. From the following year. Since January 1, 2010.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u251	Dear colleagues, National Deputy Marouschenko made an appropriate offer. The committee counted it. What might be the claim?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u252	We made, in the amendment we changed, in the end, the Maruszczenk amendment. Since January 1, 2011, it has become effective.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u253	Ladies and gentlemen, this is the committee of January 1, 2011.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u254	Under the stenogram. The eleventh year. Under the stenogram.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u255	With this amendment in mind, I am voting. Change the vote, please. Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u256	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u257	That's what I said for the transcript: January 1, 2011.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u258	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, it's very right that later. But this law doesn't have the size of a salary. So my amendment number seven, to which I draw the attention of the people's deputies, is proposed to be added in part one, article ten of the Act on Pay for Work, which reads as follows: “The minimum wage shall be established by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in compliance with the requirements of Article 9 of this Act, this law, by the submission of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine at least once a year in the Act on the State Budget of Ukraine, taking into account the proposals made by the negotiations of representatives of professional associations, owners or authorized bodies, which have been merged to conduct collective negotiations and the conclusion of a general contract and are reviewed depending on the size of the subsistence minimum for working persons” which we make each year. So I suggest you consider this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u259	Dear Yuri Anatoliyovich, the committee rejected this amendment because you simply rewrote article 95 of the Ukrainian Labour Code, which provides that the minimum wage is set and reviewed in accordance with articles 9, 10 of the Ukrainian Labour Act. Dear colleagues! Once again, please, let's look at and adopt the Labour Code, and we will constantly encounter the Labour Code in 1994 in the context of the social labour bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u260	Dear colleagues! I'd like to support my colleague Karmazin, because this position is fixed, so why should we duplicate it, considering.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u261	So it can't be the size, it can't be the same thing as the other law, it can't be here. And it is suggested that the honourable colleagues, in the Final Positions, find that the law is in place, take effect on 1 January 2011 and put it to the vote. Is there no objection?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u262	Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-21-m0.u263	I would like to vote on the adoption in second reading and in general, as a law, of the draft Act “On amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the hourly pay of work”. Registration number 3253, please vote. Since January 1, 20. [[14:05:03]] For-154 The decision is not taken. The factions? Region Party – 112, “Timoshenko Yulia Block” – 3, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” – 19, Communists – 0, “Litvina Block” – 20. I'm voting on the second reading of the bill to correct draft law, registration number 3253. Political motives, what motives. [[14:05:40]] For 293 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we still have a committee here. One minute, we were going to consider a bill amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts to deal with the negative effects of the financial crisis, registration number 3585. The committee proposes to correct it now by voting for a second read again, because there is a remark by the Chief Legal Authority to further the General Legal Administration's observations. Is there no objection? I am voting for re-reading the draft Law amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts in order to overcome the negative effects of the financial crisis on re-reading. [[Registration number 3585]] [[2:06:44]] For 298 Decision taken. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Break until 4:00. At 16 o'clock, we'll continue our consideration of the issues set out in the schedule for Thursday. The draft Law on Physical Culture and Sports will be considered first. [[new editor]]
