ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u1	Good afternoon, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Council" system. [[11:28:14]] Cards were registered in the 427 people’s deputies’ session room. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of our fellow national MPs, Irina Heraszczenko, let's welcome our colleague, as well as Jiggy Mikoli Vasilovich, who is now 60 years old, the Jubilee. [[Applause]] We welcome our colleagues, our desire for productive work in good health. Let me give you an overview of the plenary work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from 14 to 17 April 2009. There were six plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and 58 issues of the agenda were discussed. As a result of the review, 13 laws and 20 regulations were passed, 12 bills were adopted on the basis of one bill for re-reading, 4 bills were returned to the committee for re-reading, 16 bills and one draft regulation were rejected. As a result of a review of the President's proposals, the President's veto has been overturned by two laws, and one law has been rejected. 144 parliamentary inquiries have been announced. Dear colleagues, we have arranged for this order of work today. I ask you to listen to these suggestions. There will be an announcement of parliamentary inquiries that have come to the secretariat. Then there will be statements from factions up to three minutes to explain to the Ukrainian community their positions on why the Supreme Council of Ukraine did not work this plenary week and on further action. After that. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Please take your seats, all of you! After that, we will make a decision, your honorary colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, after that, we will adopt the ruling of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the text of which we have agreed, on this issue. We will next consider with you, honourable national deputies, the draft Act banning gaming business in Ukraine, the report of the Temporary Special Commission on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Disaster in July 2008 in the western areas of Ukraine and a number of other issues that have been scheduled for today. Given that we have been negotiating for a long time, then we, dear colleagues, with you in the event of our productive activities, may consider the proposal that we have no speeches in the “Variance” and that we should devote this time to our work on the consideration and adoption of relevant bills. If you have a wish, then I can put on a vote and a proposal, except for everything else, so that we can have the morning session, let's say we continue until 15 o'clock. But it's all going to depend on your working mood. Allow me to announce the parliamentary questions that have come. A request was received from the Ukrainian National Deputies: Igor Lisova to the President of Ukraine on the further deterioration of the situation in the construction sector of Ukraine caused by the improper implementation of the Ukrainian Law on the Prevention of the Impact of the World Financial Crisis on the Development of Construction and Housing. I would like to vote in favour of the MP's request. [[11:32:26]] For 228 Request supported. I would like to vote in favour of sending a parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. [[11:32:45]] For 245 Decision taken. GORDIENKA to the Head of the Special Supervisory Board of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on matters of privatization, acting as Head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine on the need for a thorough investigation of the legality of the transfer of ownership to the immovable property of the Orcisatorf State Enterprise Kyivtorf to the Bar Association of the National Legal Chamber, to ensure the protection of the legitimate interests of the State, to hold the guilty responsible for actions that may result in the loss of their property by the State. I'll bet you a vote. I'm sorry, Your Honor, I'm just going to read this because he's not going to the President of Ukraine. Vladimir YAROSCHUKA to the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the unlawful actions of the Head of the Interim Investigative Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Kiril Kulikov. VADIM KOROTJUK to First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Prosecutor-General of Ukraine, on illegal actions to alienate the land of the forest fund from the land of the state-owned enterprise Novooskovsky Forestosp. Vasila PETOVKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the critical situation at the Solotvinian Solar Company of the Ministry of Agriculture Policy of Ukraine and at the Ukrainian Allergy and Regional Allergy Hospitals of Zacarpathia. Vladimir DENILENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for assistance in restoring the capacity of the company "Sixtkin Penitentiary Plant "Zirka" of the town of Šstka Sumska District. Eduard PRUTNIK to First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, National Bank of Ukraine, temporary administrator of the Commercial Bank of Westinkombank, Attorney General of Ukraine, on the re-appealing of the State-owned company Shabalinian Spirit Plant and on the use of appropriate measures to finally recover the funds of the budget-making enterprise of the region of Chernigiv. Mr. Eduard PRUTNIK to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the Pension Fund of Ukraine, on the examination of the facts presented in the address of the Head of the Chernobyl Disability Assistance Fund of the Chernigian Region of Dmitr Blocha and on the use of appropriate measures to finance the payment of pensions in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. Igora KALETNIKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the improper examination of the parliamentary appeal and the commission of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to the Ministry of Transport and Communications of Ukraine, the State Road Service of Ukraine to ensure the repair of the road in the Winnitsky region. MIKOLI JANKOVSKI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for support of the city council of Debaltsze Donetsk Region. MIKOLI JANKOVSKI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for amendments to Cabinet Order No. 255 of February 25, 2003. Paul SULKOVSKI TO THE Prime Minister of Ukraine for the preservation and construction of the school in the village of Stavrov in the region of Mlinov. SERGEANT GORDIENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the Ivano-Frankov District State Administration, regarding the delay in the implementation of the promises made by the central and regional authorities to resolve the issue of gasification of the public education school I - I. GREENEVECH to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the re-examination of certain provisions of the Ukrainian Law on Value Added Tax. GREENEVECH to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the transfer of the military town B-3 from state property to the property of the territorial community of Bijeivka. Ms. LOVČKINA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about the unsatisfactory activities of the Government with the warning of the negative effects of floods on the rivers of Ukraine. SERGEANT TERRESTUKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for insufficient funding of the Cerkas Cancer Scholar. BACHTE’S aunts to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the critical situation in the provision of insulin for diabetes patients in 2009. BACHTE'S aunts to the Prime Minister of Ukraine are concerned about the need to take urgent measures to prevent the deterioration of the quality and accessibility of Phtysiatric assistance to the population of Kharkiv and Kharkiv. Groups of National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the status of providing teaching facilities to the Chernigiv region with a material base. [[GUREY, COMARA, and others. Total 6 deputies]] Groups of National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the provision of funds for the State budget for the protection of the National Museum of Andrija Šaptický in Lviv. [[THE crowds, the Kosovos, and others. Total 5 deputies]] Groups of National Deputies. to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the purpose of ordering younger specialists and bachelors for specialty and direct "decorative art". [[DAVIDS, TEMPERS, AND OTHERS]] Groups of National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the provision of rural outpatient and obstetrical facilities. [[COMARA, MANKOV AND OTHERS]] Groups of National Deputies to the Prime Minister on improving the environmental status of Lake Sasik and surrounding areas in the Odessa region. [[LEMS, RADIO, ZZULI]] Valentina ZUBOVA to the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Attorney General, on the application of measures to verify compliance with valid legislation when investigating a criminal case committed by the fact of illegal possession of simple name shares of the Open Shareholder Society "The Experimental Plant of Steel Bars" belonging to the citizen of Igor Bucko. Victor TICHONOVA to the first deputy head of the National Television and Radio Board to remove the retransmission permit in Ukraine for the "First Channel" program. World Network, House of Cinema, Music of the First, Time: Far and Near, Telenya, Telecafe. Mr. Vladimir PILIPENK to the Minister for Internal Affairs, acting as Head of the State Property Fund, Attorney-General, on violations of legislation in the rental of the assets of the Private Shareholders Association "President Hotel". Vladimir YAVORIYSKE to the Ministry of Health in connection with the adventurous restructuring of the city’s medical facilities, which may have a negative impact on the health situation in the city and on the aggravation of the epidemiological situation in the district center. John PEACE to the Head of the Bureau, the Attorney General on the facts of corruption and the misconduct of the management of the Montenegrin State Institute of Economics and Management. Igor PACICI to the Minister of Economics, Ministry of Transport and Communications concerning the violation of the procedure of procurement at the state cost of construction and reconstruction of the State Enterprise Lviv International Airport. Oleg MALIČA to the National Bank for Abuses by the Management of the Kiyev Stock Exchange Commercial Bank during the financing of loans to individuals and legal persons during 2006-2008. Alexander ŠEPELEVA to the Ministry of Environmental Protection on the use of mercury residues and other toxic substances in the Radical plant in Kiev. Helen BONDARENKO is acting as Head of the State Property Fund for the state of affairs in the defence industry of Ukraine to the Donetsk Open Shareholder Tochmash and the efficiency of managing a share of state property. To the Minister of Transport and Liaison regarding the unsatisfactory activities of the Ministry of Transport and the relationship between Ukraine and strengthening the material, technical and financial base for the operation and development of the commercial and passenger fleet. Mr. Jaroslav KENDZORA to the head of the DPA, the first deputy head of the SBA, the Attorney-General, for the examination of the acts of corruption and crime committed by the deputy head of the State Customs Service of Ukraine, Mr. Taras Kozak. Jaroslav KENJORA to the head of the Ukrainian State Customs Service regarding the provision of information to verify the commission of corruption and criminal acts as a substitute for the head of the Ukrainian State Customs Service, Taras Kozak. Groups of National Deputies to the Minister of Transport and Liaison for the Conservation of Road Undertakings in the area of Novgorod-Sibersk Region. [[COMARA, CHEETOVA AND OTHERS]] Michael POLENCHIČI AND OXANA BILOZIRE to the head of the Ukrainian State Committee on Technical Regulation and Consumer Policy to verify the quality and conformity of State standards and technical requirements for automatic fixation of the "Visor" infringements. Andrija PORTNOVA to the Attorney General on the inaction of the prosecutor’s authorities in ensuring the rights of the disabled first group of citizens, Nina Kowalczuk. Ms. KRAPOVA and Mr. Igor KALETNIKA to the head of the Board, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Prosecutor General to the Office of the Security Service of Ukraine, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Attorney General's Office of Deputies on non-target use in the particularly large amounts of money allocated to the state budget of Ukraine for the renovation and reconstruction of the housing and utility of the city of First-level Dnipropetrov region. Vladimir JAVORISKI to the Attorney-General for information published in the newspaper For New Ukraine No.12 of December 12, 2008 on the robbery by the Central Association of Ukrainian Consumer Associations of 12 million 305,000 Ukrainian citizens, who are consumers of consumer cooperation. [[Ukoppilka]] MICHELLE’S Plenipotentiary to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the need to take urgent action on the abuse of the city’s city executive committee in renting land. Michael PAPIJEVA to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the elimination of gross violations of citizens’ rights to a pension. OXANI BILOSIR to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the involvement of those involved in the destruction of the Kuyalnicki Lyman. Oleg MALIČA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the abuse of the management of the Kiyev Stock Exchange Bank during the loan process for individuals and legal persons during 2006-2008. Andrija PAVLOWS to the Kiev City Head on the illegal destruction of a children’s playground on the street of Rusanivska coastline, 10 of Dniprovsk district of Kiev, with the aim of setting up a seasonally fragmented liquor trade. Alexia PLOTNIKOVA to the Kiev City Head for dissatisfaction with the parliamentary request regarding the setting up of the children’s playground on the 1st street in Kiev. Helen BONDARENKO to the prosecutor of the Donetsk district on the non-use of the law enforcement agencies of Ukraine of the measures to bring criminal responsibility for the results of the review of the financial and economic activities of the State Enterprise Makiyevcarbon. Roman ZABZALJECK to the Mikolayev City Head for failure to respond to a parliamentary appeal regarding the possible violation of Ukrainian current legislation by the City and Architecture Administration of the city of Mikolayeva in the development of a plan for the construction of the South Bug River Coastal Protection Strip. Groups of national deputies to the head of the Lviv District State Administration, the Lviv City Head, the head of the Lviv Railway, regarding the application of measures to prevent the closure of the Lviv Children’s Railway. [[BILOZIR, ROBERT, KING]] Thus, honourable colleagues, 68 parliamentary requests have been made, including one request for your decision addressed to the President of Ukraine. Now let's go from factions to 3 minutes, please sign up for the performance. May I have the names of the national deputies on the board? Viacheslav Koval, please. The faction of "Our Ukrainian People's Self-Defense." Please, Katerina Lukyanova, please. Get ready, Vashtuk. Who will act? Oleg Zarubinski?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u2	Respectable citizens, respectable colleagues! For almost a week, the Ukrainian Parliament did not work for an incomprehensible reason. I would like to know why during the economic crisis, during the difficult economic situation in the state, when we have to look at economics, first of all, to come out of the crisis, Parliament was blocked. I'm hoping that today we can get to consolidation and finally end this populism and that's the show. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u3	Oleg Zarubin faction of the Block of Lithuania. Paul Unguryan will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u4	Oleg Zarubinsky's Block of Lithuania. Dear fellow citizens, dear colleagues! The last two weeks of our country’s life have been marked by two festivals, festivals of solidarity in the work and solidarity in battle. The interpretation dictionary of modern Ukrainian as the legal term “solidarity” defines common responsibility. And it's not about lexic exercises, but it's about what we're talking about now is that at this point in our lives, all of those who our citizens have delegated to the legislative, executive and judicial authorities, solidarity should finally be a key criterion of true patriotism, a criterion of ability and a criterion of efficiency. Are there preconditions and conditions for working together in this room? Yes. A recent decision by the Constitutional Court raised all questions about the successive, out of turn parliamentary elections. The Constitutional Court ruled that there was no constitutional legal basis for them. There will be no third parliamentary elections in the last three years. It may not be pleasant for those who have already drawn schemes of use in the national elections of their fraud efforts to distort the results of recent local elections, in fact removing citizens from the choice of choice, total manipulation during these local elections, beginning with the insolent use of administrative resources and ending simply by combining people, bringing people together in front of the polling station. So everyone should finally calm down. Because there's only one thing left to do today, whether you want it or not, is work. And the vast majority of our colleagues, no matter what factions they're in, have considerable life and work experience, can work. They just don't need to get in the way. Personal complexes and ambitions should not be imposed on those who are able to work, who actually went to the Supreme Council instead of living from scandal to scandal. For those who do not want to work, there are also two options. Surrendering your parliamentary mandates and freeing others who appreciate their work will value the opportunities to be useful to people. Or a second option. Strong public and civil pressure on those who do not want to work, for whom parliamentary work is uniquely intrigue and play, not just daily work and copious work. There is a choice. So, dear fellows, I think it's worth approving that agenda, the way it is now fashionable to say, the algorithm of work for today and for the next week, and beyond, which was proposed by the Conciliation Council of the Heads of factions, the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And apparently for us today, the choice that I have mentioned is natural and objective. I want to say again, you need to calm down, you need to work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u5	Please, Paul Unguryan, the BUT faction, or who will act? Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, we are also pleased to note that the Supreme Council is starting to work after a three - day break. I want to inform you that from the first day of this conflict, our political power has taken a clear position, which I think will be resolved in the format we talked about today. We didn't belong to the political forces that talked about what we don't know exactly what happened, but the minister needs to be filmed. Nor do we belong to the political forces that have spoken, we do not know what has happened there, but the minister must never be filmed. We believe that it is necessary to determine the only and constant principle of responding to possible conflicts of this kind. I know a lot of ministers in previous governments who have made a very unpleasant country of history, but to convince the prime ministers of those governments or ministers of those governments to take a step towards solving history, it is impossible to admit their mistake in principle. So what we define today is an algorithm. Guys, I'm on factions. Scream, you have a democracy full of it. I think it's in the session room. In three days, you screamed so loud that you could talk, work. Well, we need to determine the principle. The principle is this: you have to get official documents, you have to conduct a service investigation, and then you have to take a decision with the Supreme Council. Therefore, our faction will vote in favour of the State Building Committee's proposal and the local self-government to remove the Minister of Internal Affairs from his position at the time of the official investigation of the Cabinet of Ministers. After the Cabinet of Ministers offers us an objective picture, when we see the documents of the German side, not the publications in the media, or the videos on the mobile phone that some people are offering here, then we can make an objective, realistic and just decision. Now, apart from this decision, of course, it is important for us today to solve the question of a 100th game business because it is so impressive that for three days someone has blocked Lucenko and someone has blocked for the gaming business. During the last three days, it seems that parallel negotiations have been held on some political structures, some political plans. I am convinced that today we must work and be partially compensated for these three days, so our faction will propose to make the most of today's day: whether we work until 15 hours without interruption, or whether we work until 14th without the “Variance”. Already in the “Variance” in the towers they have spoken so much that they no longer listen to each other, and the Ukrainians are uncomfortable with what we are saying here. Let's just partially make up for the loss of three days and work as a parliament of the Ukrainian people. Our faction will vote in favour of the decisions proposed by the Conciliation Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u7	From the faction of the Party of Regions, I invite you to Victor Corge's performance. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u8	Dear colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Respectable guidance! On behalf of the Party of the Regions in connection with the situation, I am authorized to make the following statement. First, after listening to my colleagues' statement, I would like to emphasize that all the accusations of my colleagues and those who worked before us in the Government in such situations are absolutely vocal. However, the orange team has become characterized by fighting, displaying such things as carnage. There were also sights of Mr. Czervonenko, and recently Minister Pavlovenko beat his subordinate. Today we are witnessing a disgraceful incident involving the Ministers of the Interior, which took place in Frankfurt. No one has any doubt that it happened. There is no doubt that we, in the faction of the Party of the Regions, have no doubt about society either. Such doubts are unfortunately only within the ruling coalition and the Government, which I regret very much. I regret that Minister Lucenco, who spent a total of several years among the militias, officers, generals, military personnel, has never mastered basics such as the honour of an officer and civil debt. Although those things had been penetrating for several minutes, he had been able to write normal, adequate statements rather than ambiguous ones, which was indeed a telltale. And it forces the Supreme Council to do absolutely nothing of its own. Respectable citizens of Ukraine! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that dozens of media outlets, more than 110 countries around the world, have commented on this shameful event. Our loss has been enormously damaged. Today we have shown once again to the world that we are not a civilized society, a price for today's European integrationists. European values are still an incognito terror for us today. In view of all that has happened, the faction of the Party of the Regions proposes the following. Immediately remove Minister Lucenko from his duties. Instruct the Cabinet of Ministers to conduct a full study of the case by setting up a commission. We also consider it useful to establish another interim investigative commission to deal with the case. Although you know, two of you have already worked and made the appropriate decisions, which amounted to the resignation of Minister Lucenka. We propose to hear a report within a week on the work of this commission in the Supreme. In the Supreme Council of Ukraine, with the participation of the MOU leadership, Ambassador of Ukraine to Germany, the management of the State Service, if necessary, with the participation of other officials following a final decision on the matter. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u9	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts on this matter. Now let me. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Zibenko Peter Stepanovich. Because it's just me. You didn't sign up, so I looked at the list. From the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u10	Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! We are all aware that the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine really needs to be unlocked, and if we have to make the decision that is now made by the leaders and agreed by the factions, the faction of the Company of Ukraine will vote for it. But I would like to ask a colleague of respectable, experienced and less experienced, that the position of the faction of the Company of Ukraine should not be considered for my own consideration. We don't have to help. Believe me, we'll deal with this ourselves. We will definitely support the position that the brutal conduct of the highest state official outside Ukraine must be responded to. This is clear to us. But at the same time, it is clear to us and others that the Supreme Council of Ukraine must make a conscious decision that is adequate because of what has happened. What is it today? Today there is a minister’s statement and today there are newspaper publications. Is it possible to make any conscious decision of the Supreme Council on the basis of these documents or these facts adequate, I would stress once again what has actually happened? Of course not. That is, we insist that the matter should be fully explored in the demand for necessary documents, and I stress, in as short a time as possible, that is, within not more than one week. Because that decision that we could make, let's say, yesterday or the day before, without the documents, without the originals, it could have been that today or tomorrow it could have been canceled in any court. At least the faction of the Ukrainian Company wouldn't want that. And with regard to the work of the Interim Investigation Commission. Yesterday, the faction submitted its proposals for the nomination of the Ukrainian national deputy to the TSC. But, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like to express the faction's position on what we believe is not the representative of the Ukrainian Company to lead the Temporary Investigation Commission. Moreover, one of the megafractions denies it. So we're going to be working on this committee, but this commission has a representative of another political power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u11	Dear colleagues, let's move on. We exchanged thoughts about why the Supreme Council of Ukraine did not work on Tuesdays, Wednesdays, and Thursdays. At the same time, the decision was made to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt such a decision. I'll read this order. We agreed that after that, we would immediately vote and go to work. However, this decision was fully agreed by consensus with all factions. So I'm going to read the draft decree without a preamble. May I have your attention, please? “Paragraph one. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine conducts a weekly service investigation into the incident that took place at Frankfurt am Main Airport, with the participation of the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenka. To resolve the issue, to resolve the issue of removing the Minister of Internal Affairs, Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenko, from his official duties during the service investigation. Material on the results of the service investigation should be made available to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for appropriate response and decision-making. Second item. To the MPs in the Supreme Council of Ukraine to make proposals on the composition of the TSK, the Temporary Special Commission, on this matter. And the third point. This decision takes effect from the time of publication.” There's no objection. I'm voting on the draft ruling as decrees, please vote. [[12:00:55.]] For 423 Decision taken. The factions, please. The Party of Regions – 164, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko” – 151, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” – 62, Communists – 27, “Clocus of Lithuania” – 19. And now, dear colleagues, for the further organization of our work. There's a suggestion that we don't call it a break right now, we've taken a lot of breaks for consultations. And yet another proposal for us today to vote on ad hoc decisions that we will not be holding the “Variable” but will be working on a schedule of meetings, that is to say, by 2 p.m. That's the first sentence, I'll put it to a vote if there's no objection. Please be supportive. [[12:01:57]] For 217 The decision is not taken. Now, the second proposal, the morning meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, will continue until 15 o'clock. To clean up the experiment, I'm making this proposal that I made on the Conciliation Council, and I'm giving it to you. Please support me. [[12:02:28]] For 213 The decision is not taken either. So now we're working continuously, and at 1:00 we're going to go to the "Variance". And also, dear colleagues, let me have two words. We are now, I think, each of you is getting a lot of letters of indignation from the behavior they see in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It's very difficult to answer these letters. I want to say that today's Supreme Council of Ukraine will be working until 2012, on one condition that we will work as the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And I would ask the honourable national MPs to recognize their responsibility, even considering that the proposals we just voted were discussed and proposed on Tuesday. Sadly, though, we are not given the opportunity to bring this opinion to the leaders. To the MP's corps. Unfortunately, we still have such a practice that faction leaders usurped the right to decide for the MPs. So I would ask, dear colleagues, that we are all aware that our level of support is meager and we have to work absolutely. So thank you for your understanding. Now let's move on to the next question. Dear colleagues, you have made proposals to remove disagreements in the text of the adopted Ukrainian Law on Associations of Local Self-Government Authorities. There's two technical adjustments. These proposals are made to you by the Committee and the Chief Legal Authority. I am voting on the adoption of these technical rights to the Law on Associations of Local Self-Government Authorities adopted by us. Please be supportive. [[12:04:29]] For 401 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we need to take a number of decisions by the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the appointment of out-of-order elections. If you agree, the committee has processed, I will read my own ruling and ruling number, and we will vote, but a few details from the first deputy committee head, please Bodnar.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u12	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Today, information has been received on Malina. The point is.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u13	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u14	On the other hand, today, I ask you to remove the question of Malin, because the former head of fate on May 13, along with the executives, took the seal in charge, and the 14th formed the right of signature of notaryus and considered himself to be a valid city head. Now it's a matter of the city council's making a complaint to the Kiev DA's office about Dolly's actions. So today there is a request.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u15	What's the number?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u16	The last one.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u17	What kind of project is this?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u18	4331-39.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u19	Tyre 39?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u20	39.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u21	39. Okay. Dear colleagues! Then we delete the draft decision. [[Registration number 4331-39]] We'll all vote. Is there no objection? Project, what questions. Please, Kulczynski, National Deputy Kulczynski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u22	I have, if there's a question in this decision about the election of the village head and the deputies of the country council of the Kruto Balka Novosanjar district. So I'd like to make some comments on this project.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u23	What's the number?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u24	Vladimir Mikhailovich, there's no decision number, here's what I took from the computer -- no.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u25	What area?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u26	Novosanjarski District, Poltava Region
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u27	Then I'll come up from Poltava County, make a good deal. Tier two? Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u28	But there is an explanation of the committee, of the working group on this issue, that there really needs to be elections and heads of the silage, and of the silage itself. A working group consisting of Gordienka and Petrenko, the national deputies, carefully considered the matter. It is said that more than five months of silrada, the village council does not even meet the approved 2009 budget. And there are a lot of comments in the actions of the head of the village council about violations of the law, there are a lot of references from the prosecutor who doesn't, and I want to say, at least, it started with the fact that she didn't even appoint a secretary to the council, and I put a secretary to the board. This is a gross violation of existing legislation. So the work of the commission that was created by our committee has studied this issue very carefully enough. That is why we offer to appoint the election and the heads and its councils there.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u29	Dear colleagues, let's say that before this ruling is voted, our colleague Kulczynski will express his point of view, and the Supreme Council will determine whether or not to support the vote by vote. I'd like to ask that we don't take too long, but today we need to make a decision on the draft of the Act on the Playing Business, because you understand very well that we're all talking about the need for adoption, but we haven't yet taken it. Let's go to the vote. Draft Decree 4331 on the appointment of the successive elections of the Lugovic Rural Head. [[Lugovitsa Rural Council of the Kyiv Region of Poland]] Please vote. [[12:08:38]] For 388 Decision taken. 4331-1 on the appointment of the guisetinian village head election. [[Hussatian Village Council of the region of Ternopil]] Please vote. [[12:09:06]] For 400. Decision taken. Draft Decision 4331-2. Kulczynski microphone, please, colleague, your warning.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u30	Respectful colleagues, namely, part 5 of article 79 of the Law on Local Self - Rule, make it clear in which cases a decision on the election of a village head is made. I quote: “On the availability of decisions by the Supreme Council of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding recognition of orders or actions of rural, rural, urban, illegal conclusions, and so on, the Supreme Council of Ukraine may appoint successive elections of the village, village, city head and so on.” There is no court ruling on the head of the village council of the cool Balkana Novosanjar district. And we are not in the right today to make decisions about the election of the head of the village council. Moreover, the session was not about her fault. She, in all her testimony, sent a written invitation to all the deputies of the village council. There's a lot more to the situation. Submerged currents touch the ground. Because this head of the village council of 587 acts, state acts on the pie, issued them to their peasants. And that's what some people in the district don't like and think of.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u31	People's MP Klukkowski, then Gordijenko. And I'd like to ask, let's move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u32	Thank you. Yuri Klukkowski. I'd like to pay attention, fellow honourable Members, before I can determine, to inform you that we have invited the head of the village council to a committee meeting. Indeed, there are no judicial decisions. However, on a direct question at a committee meeting: “Please tell me how it happened that the secretary of the village council does not have a deputy appointed by the village head and do you know that the law does not allow it?” She made it clear: “I didn’t look at the law. I was advised to do so.” So a person who has no idea of the Law “On Local Self - Rule” violates this law, claims this violation at a committee meeting, admits a violation, and still wants to carry out the duties of head. In this case, it seems to me that we should come to a conclusion. The Committee's conclusion is. The fact that Ukraine's laws have been violated by its head is established, and I think there are good reasons for the election. If a person is popular, let him go to the polls. She wins the election, she learns the law at last, and she rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u33	Please, my colleague Gordian's microphone is a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u34	Sergey Gordienko faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Dear colleagues, my countrymen, I led a working group on behalf of the committee to study the situation that took place in the Krutobalk Rural Council. These materials were. The report was at a committee meeting. The legal basis for holding the interim elections of the Krutobalk Rural Council, which has not been held for six months, has not confirmed the budget of the village council until now, as well as sufficient grounds and violations that have been allowed by the country’s head. In order to unlock the situation in the region, in the area and in this rural council, I propose to support the Supreme Council Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government and to vote in favour of the temporary elections and council, and the country's head in the Kruti Balak Poltavian region.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u35	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the draft Decree 4331-2 on the appointment of alternate deputies of the Krutobalk Rural Council and the country head. [[Crotobalk Rural Council of the Novosanjar Region of Poltava Region]] Please vote. [[12:13:25]] For 349 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, for the stenographer. Since we have not voted on these rulings for a long time, we will have to make one point in this and all other decisions that these elections will be scheduled for August 2, 2009 to be the only unified date. I'd like to predict it in the transcript. And one more thing. Dear colleagues, we have accepted the question. We made a decision about the incident and what happened to the Minister of Internal Affairs. I'd like you to take it off, Your Honor. One minute! I'm asking you. Your right. I want to say again, I'm asking you, your right to preserve them at the time of your consideration of this matter. Don't turn the Supreme Council into a mess. [[B in m in s a l in]] 4331-3 is the appointment of the successive elections of the Mikhailian Rural Head (Michail Village Council of the Lower Gorgeous Region of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea). [[12:14:44]] For 361 Decision taken. 4331-4 is the appointment of the successive elections of the Yakimiv village head (Jakimiv village council of the Lower Gori district of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea). [[12:15:10]] For 364 Decision taken. 4331-5 is the appointment of the special election of the Terpinius Rural Head (Terpinius Rural Council of the Melitopol Region of Zaporozhye region). Please vote. [[12:15:35]] For 369 Decision taken. 4331-6 is the appointment of the consecutive election of the Pavlin Rural Head (Paulin Rural Council of the Ivanov Region of Odessa). Please vote. [[12:15:59]] For 362 Decision taken. 4331-7 – on the appointment of the successive elections of the Krukowsztski Rural Head (Krkowsztyn village council of Kiev-Svetoshin district of Kyiv region). Please vote. Ravenskin. [[12:16:28]] For 364 Decision taken. 4331-8 – on the appointment of the successive elections of the Ivankovsky Rural Head (Ivankow village council of the Lipovec Region of the Vinnitsk Region). Please vote. [[12:16:53]] For 363 4331-9 is the appointment of the successive elections of the Montenegrin Rural Head (Cornomorian Rural Council of the Kakhov district of the Hersonian region). [[12:17:17]] For 365 Decision taken. 4331-10 – on the appointment of the successive elections of the Goreženev Rural Head (Gerezheniv Rural Council of the Uman district of Cherkas region). Please vote. [[12:17:42]] For-360 Decision taken. 4331-11 is the appointment of the second-in-command election of the Novoselian First Rural Head (Novoselivska First Rural Council of the area of Yasinavat, Donetsk Region). Please vote. [[12:18:08]] For 365 Decision taken. 4331-12 is the appointment of the successive elections of the Bezrukov Rural Head (Bezrukov Rural Council of the Darkachiv District of Kharkiv Region). [[12:18:33]] For 361 Decision taken. 4331-13 - on the appointment of consecutive elections of the Vojtic Rural Head (Vojtic Rural Council of the Sambir district of Lviv district). [[12:18:58]] For 361 Decision taken. 4331-14 is the appointment of the successive elections of the Voronensk Rural Head (Vronensk village council of the Jashkov district of the Cherkas region). [[12:19:22]] For 368 Decision taken. 4331-15 is the appointment of the three-way election of the Trihatsk Rural Head (Trichatsk Rural Council of the Mikolai district of Mikolaiiv region). [[12:19:47]] For 362 Decision taken. 4331-16 is the appointment of the successive elections of the Petropavlovian Rural Head (Petropavlovska Rural Council of the Brotherly Region of the Mikolai Region). [[12:20:12]] For 368 A decision has been made. 4331-17 is the appointment of the successive elections of the Rural Head of Delhi (Silly Village Council of Kamyanec-Podil Region of Hmelnitsk Region). [[12:20:36]] For 361 Decision taken. 4331-18 – on the appointment of the successive elections of the Ivanchukian Rural Head (Ivanchuk village council of the Izumi district of Kharkiv Region). [[12:21:00]] For 361 Decision taken. 4331-19 – on the appointment of the next election of the Krinickyvski Rural Head (Krinickiv Village Council of the Goshchen district of Ravensk Region). [[12:21:25]] For 362 A decision has been made. 4331-20 is the appointment of the Uskali Rural Head Elections (Uskal Village Council of the Upper Nouvelles region of the Hersonian Region). [[12:21:50]] For three hundred Decision taken. 4331-21 – on the appointment of successive elections of the Codemian Rural Head (the Codemal Council of the Artemian Region of the Donetsk Region) [[12:22:14]] For-360 Decision taken. 4331-22 is the appointment of the successive elections of the Sloby village head (Sloby Village Council of the Kodim district of Odessa Region). [[12:22:38]] For 371 Decision taken. 4331-23 is the appointment of the successive elections of the Mejibiski Village Head (Mejibiz village council of Letitičov Region of Hmelnitsk Region). Please vote. [[12:23:03]] For 368 Decision taken. 4331-24 – on the appointment of the successive elections of the Green Sea Village Head (Green Sea Village Council of the Lubashiv Region of Odessa Region). [[12:23:28]] For 371 Decision taken. 4331-25 is the appointment of the consecutive election of the Roscen City Head (city of Roscen district of Volin district). [[12:23:52]] For 370. Decision taken. 4331-26 is the appointment of the next election of the Krinsky Rural Head (Crinic Village Council of the Monastirin Region of Ternopil). [[12:24:17]] For 371 Decision taken. 4331-27 - on the appointment of the Concebius Rural Head (Concebius Village Council of the Savran district of Odessa). Please vote. [[12:24:44]] For 362 Decision taken. 4331-28 – on the appointment of consecutive elections of the Atmanai Rural Head (Athmanai Village Council of the Yakimiv District of Zaporozhi Region). [[12:25:10]] For 358 Decision taken. 4331-29 – on the appointment of consecutive elections of the Bilocerkovsky Rural Head (Bilocerkow Rural Council of the region of the region of Montenegro). [[12:25:35]] For three hundred Decision taken. 4331-30 is the appointment of the non-recurrent elections of the Spartan Rural Head (Spartakovian Village Council of the area of Yasinavat, Donetsk Region). [[12:26:00]] For 359 Decision taken. 4331-31 is the appointment of the consecutive election of the Balashov Rural Head (Balashiv Village Council of the Ivanov District of Hersson Region). Please vote. [[12:26:25]] For 240 Decision taken. 4331-32 – on the appointment of the successive elections of the Seminovian Rural Head (Seminovi Rural Council of the Krynica District of Dnipropetrov Region). Please vote. [[12:26:53]] For 252 Decision taken. 4331-33 is the appointment of the next election of the Stavčinecka Rural Head (Stavčinecka Rural Council of the Hmelnicka District of Hmeljna Region). [[12:27:20]] For 353. Decision taken. 4331-34 – on the appointment of consecutive elections of the Lubin Rural Head (Lviv Region, Lubin Village Council). [[12:27:46]] For-360 Decision taken. 4331-35 is the appointment of the Vice-Electorate of the Zavivetsky Rural Head (Provided Rural Council of the City District of Lviv Region). [[12:28:11]] For 362 Decision taken. 4331-36 – on the appointment of the successive elections of the Commissioner's Village Head (Commissary Village Council of the Pereval Region of Lugansk Region). [[12:28:37]] For three hundred Decision taken. 4331-37 – on the appointment of the successive elections of the Vienna Village Head (Vedina Village Council of the Chuguyiv Region of Kharkiv Region). [[12:29:03]] For 366 Decision taken. 4331-38 is about the appointment of the next election of the Tokmatic City Head (town of Tokmak Zaporez Region). Please vote. [[12:29:27]] For-360 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we voted on 38 draft decrees. The 4331-39 draft of the committee's proposal has been withdrawn. Once again, I would like to point out that the elections for these rulings are determined by a single date – August 2, 2009. Now, dear fellows! We agreed to consider the draft Act banning gaming business in Ukraine. And I would ask that we do. Dear colleagues! We have only half an hour left, so it is within half an hour that we will be able to consider this law. And I would ask that the reports and the presentations be brief. Is it possible to set a reduced procedure? I'll put it to a vote so that we can have a brief discussion of the matter. Registration number 4268. Please vote. [[12:30:57]] For 196 Decision taken. Thus, the national deputy of Ukraine, Grigory Yedkomovich Smythuch, is invited to the report. And please, the co-report will be delivered by the head of the Royal Natalia Jurijovna Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u36	Dear National Deputies! For your consideration, you have a bill prohibiting gambling in the area of the Ukrainian population. [[4268]] I want to point out right away, as it is not enough time that this law provides for a ban on the gaming business since the date of the publication of this law, and it is also envisaged that the Cabinet of Ministers will develop a special law on the game business for three months and a special area where this game business can be located, or create a special territory where such activity is allowed. In what way is this necessary? You know, during 2006 and 2009, I've been speaking and speaking for a total ban on the gaming business. Unfortunately, today we are looking at the situation after the tragic events that took place in Dnipropetrovsk, Dnipropetrovsk, when 10 of our citizens were killed. We believe that such activity violates article 13 of the Ukrainian Constitution, namely, part of the fact that such activity is detrimental to the social interests and rights of citizens. I want to say, I understand that there are different aspects of the game business in the area of institutions, slot machines, casinos and so on, but I would like to ask my colleagues, regardless of political, so to speak, orientations, regardless of factions, to support this bill in the first and second reading, and put an end to this kind of negative phenomenon that is present in our society. But I think this business, generally, is in the shadow of more than 90 percent of our country's sociological specialists, the corresponding shadowy activity of this business does not bring positive, so to speak, positive for our society to the state. So please support this bill and, except for a little time, please for the remaining minutes, seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u37	Give me a chance.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u38	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, 30 seconds, please pass the bill to my co-author Pisarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u39	Who?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u40	Writer, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u41	I understand there's no objection to that within a minute? None. Please, Valery Pisarenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u42	Thank you, Your Honor. Today and in the case of the adoption of the law, we will show for the first time that the Supreme Council is really a lobbyist of the interests of ordinary citizens. And for the first time, the lobbyists of large financial industrial groups will not be able to fight today if this social law is passed in general. I want to say thank you to all the MPs who will vote in favour of this law, and we see that today and there is no dispute as to who is the author of the law, or whether it is the representatives of the Party of the Regions, the Yulia Tymoshenko Block, I hope that this law today will win 450 votes, and yet we will defeat the one-armed bandits who have actually occupied all the places of social residence of citizens today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u43	Yes, thank you. Natalia Juryovna Královska, please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u44	Dear colleagues, the recent tragedy in Dnepropetrovsk has shown once again that the solution to the problem of gambling cannot be delayed. And unfortunately, the game business has become a disease for our society. For 17 years, the Supreme Council has never been able to create a public model for regulating this area of economic activity. And this disease affects the most vulnerable segments of the population today, especially during the crisis. Seventy-five per cent of the clients of the gaming halls in Ukraine are students and schoolchildren. And every tenth Ukrainian spends money on slot machines instead of bringing them into the family today. The time has come to protect the streets of our cities from mobs, from “one-handed bandits”, and Bill 4268 proposes to prohibit gambling and gambling in Ukraine. Such prohibitions are currently in force in many countries of the world in Ireland, China, the Middle East, Cyprus. Bill 4268 also defines the necessary terms, namely, gambling, gambling, which types of games are not gambling and so on. Members of the committee are grateful to the drafters of the bill, who have listened to our request, have submitted a draft in exchange and have thus removed all possible loopholes for so-called home games. The law will enter into force on the day of publication and will continue to apply. I think that legislation will also provide for the law and, if this is the case, only in selected territories with specially established gaming zones and this will be an entirely separate issue for discussion. The main argument against the bill is the loss of the State budget. But we must understand with you that when the budget or social protection of hundreds of thousands of Ukrainian families are on the balance, we must, of course, decide to protect citizens. The task of the State is to protect Ukrainian citizens today. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine considered this.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u45	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u46	and proposes the adoption of the bill in the first, second and whole reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u47	Yes, thank you, too. Dear colleagues, will we discuss the bill? Who insists on the discussion? The committee? Please sign two in, two in, and no. No problem. Please sign in. It's a recording. I'd like you to put on the board the name of the national MPs who signed up. Gregory Smythew.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u48	Vladimir Mikolaiovich, please pass the word to Sufric, Sufric.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u49	Shufrich, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, I think we're about to witness another speculation unfolding over the fact that we were allegedly blocking the rostrum so that the bill would not be voted on. Today, of course, we have to put a dot on what is happening in the gaming business. And we have, in the end, to overcome the “one-armed bandits” and the other, who unfortunately has two hands. Let's start with the "one-handed thugs" and then deal with the other. And I think that after today's vote, speculation about the position of the Party of Regions will stop once and for all, like speculation, the 30-day hysterics. Because yesterday it was Alexander Lavrinovich who registered the national MPs and thereby removed all the questions. And today we've forced the Supreme Council to consider the very bill that we insisted on, which will put a stop to these speculations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u51	National MP Ungurian, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u52	Dear colleagues, the Timoshenko Block will unanimously support this bill, taking into account its enormous social significance in order to protect the growing generation of Ukrainians. Vladimir Mihajlovich, please pass on the word to Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u53	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u54	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u55	I ask the secretariat not to do this next time, because in the process of a reduced procedure, it is not transmitted on its own. Please, Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u56	Vladimir Mikhailovich, first of all, I want to say that the era of regulation of gambling has been going on in Ukraine for three years. And it was in 2006 that the first drafts were put in place to establish game special zones. It is a shame that we had to wait for the sad year of 2009, when the death of humans only brought attention to the need to create special game zones. In fact, the one-armed bandits occupied cities, villages, villages today, and we see the tears of mothers coming to us at a meeting that comes with only one request -- to close the games halls with slot machines. Today, the Supreme Council has a unique chance -- finally showing its ability to protect citizens from such a negative phenomenon as gambling, which is actually considered to be more evil than drug abuse and alcoholism today. And not only must the state protect citizens, but it must then develop legislation that will set up the regulation of the game business in Ukraine. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'd like to. We had a decision on the faction today, if possible, to make changes in the voting process. That's why we asked in article four, paragraph one, to put a dot after the word “from the day of publication”, that is to say that the first article of the fourth looks as follows: “This law takes effect from the day of publication”. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u57	Xenia Leapina, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u58	Dear colleagues, I will express my opinion, so I will express it very harshly: this is an example of the road to hell with good intentions. No one looks at the essence of the decision that is being proposed. Everyone's commenting on some general slogans that really don't have anything to do with the bill. The bill refers to a temporary ban on the decision to permit something to be done in a separate area. You know what this looks like? It's like an auction. The auction is auctioned, and whoever gives more will be allowed in a separate zone. It's hyperpopulism. And there's really nothing to do with wanting to really restrict our citizens' access to a negative phenomenon like gambling. Parliament has for two years cynically refused to adopt laws that really had to address this issue and actually restrict access to such, for example, negative phenomena as slot machines. But now they're offering to ban everything, absolutely everything. For example, expensive casinos where rich people lose their money. But God will decide for himself what we are going through with them. In fact, it's suggested that we tint and criminalize this activity, it's not going to stop, it's just going to get into a different form. Instead of limiting and settling and actually controlling it, it is populism. Two years later, your esteemed colleagues, your voters will ask you why we've grown a criminal. And don't tell me that someone else is responsible for this, and it's you who is voting now for this absolutely populist law that doesn't solve the real problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u59	National MP Gordienko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u60	Sergey Gordienko, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Dear colleagues and respected citizens of Ukraine! I'd like to draw your attention to one when you see a company closing down, when you see a rural production dying, mines closing down, but with a stormy flower and a circle of mushrooms popping up after the rain. We have games machines that have been correctly highlighted, lost their last cents, and didn’t bring our ordinary citizens home. And I support my colleague Lapin, when we're talking about banning the gaming business, let's just say honestly and truthfully to people that no prohibition is involved. We, the faction of the Company of Ukraine, propose to vote on this bill in the first reading and to take seriously the issue of making changes to this bill, and we stand in the position of total ban on playing rifles in general, because this is the plight of the Ukrainian people. Without the machines, Ukraine will survive, and without the economy, without the business going up and the economy, the economy, Ukraine will die. So let's support it on the first reading, we'll work seriously on the second reading, and we'll stand in the position of a total ban on the gaming business.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u61	Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u62	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear colleagues, you know that this business is all called associative. And what's interesting? Even those who engage in it are called associative or antisocial. So everyone, in principle, understands what's going on. It's about speculation about human passion. And unfortunately, they're going to continue to be these passions, and we need to do everything we can to increase the responsibility for strengthening, obviously, the underground forms of this passionate antisocial business. But I have a specific offer. The bill says that gambling does not include competitions, games, quizzes, and participants who have been shown better personal knowledge and skills in money and property. Ladies and gentlemen, turn on the TVs, see what they're doing. This is absolute speculation, this is deception. People don't get any money there, and people, first of all teenagers, people who can't, of course, give themselves a sense of how much they're going to pay, get into trouble. Tens of thousands. This is a very serious moment. That's not what we're talking about, and that's not what we're talking about. Once again, on television, it's a hoax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u64	Ladies and gentlemen, I had to ask Vladimir Mikhailovich for a few words. I would like to remind you, Mrs. Lapin, that during 2007, it was her, and it was the representatives of the committees that from the Communists, that destroyed this idea, which should have brought these issues back to normal and banned the game business. These are the people who are lobbying, and these are the people who are now proposing not to accept, based on some of the shortcomings of the law. Finally, we need to weigh, or the health of the nation and the peace of the nation, in our population, or shadow and crime. That is why I would ask, Vladimir Mikhajlovich, after the vote, to print in the Voice of Ukraine who supported this bill and who did not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u65	Well, I hear you, good fellows! Since the name Kseniya Lápina was called, she is entitled to a replica. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u66	Thank you, fellows of honor! I realize that when you tell the truth, it is always very difficult for many, since many people in this room have learned to hide their own commercial interests under beautiful slogans. And I'm telling you the truth, I'm telling you. And as she said, I'm saying that this business needs limitations, but only the real ones, not the imaginary ones that you're trying to feed Ukraine here. And actually, once again, everyone here was discussing, not a bill, but a slogan. And the bill says "temporary ban" and then "allow in separate zones". And you don't have to lie to people.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u67	Dear colleagues, the bill has been discussed. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, it's about a specific name. Well, please, Peter Cibenko. When it comes to deputies. You show me where the Rules say "faction". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u68	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, well, I just want to remind you that there is such wisdom in Ukrainian folklore that who is to blame? That's what I'm talking So I'd like to remind a representative of that political power that now accused the Communists that it was they, in turn, who had moved in with the President, created another coalition, and then they were looking for some sort of snot in the other eye. I want to say that if this is about a total ban on the game business, and we support this idea, then make the law out of one sentence. That's it! Don't spin. Left-to-right in that case, otherwise and so forth. Once again, the faction will support this bill in the first reading and will do everything in order for the second reading to introduce a rule on the total ban on the gaming business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u69	Ladies and gentlemen, the matter has been discussed. Clearly, events in Dnipropetrovsk require us to make an adequate decision. At the same time, we are all aware that this law does not solve this problem. But we need to move, take some steps. And at the same time, obviously, if we now make a positive decision, we would have to make another decision in the form of a mandate from the Cabinet of Ministers to the relevant committees within two weeks to submit a comprehensive document on this issue. As long as he's considered in the appropriate facilities by the President of Ukraine, it's almost a month away, as we have another document, then we'll accept a more perfect document. Let's move at least partially. But we need to respond and not compete with who offered it first. Therefore, the proposal for a vote is based on acceptance as a basis, regardless of what the committee has suggested to be accepted as a basis and as a law, but there are other warnings. I therefore put to the vote a proposal for the adoption of the draft Act banning gaming business in Ukraine as a basis. Registration number 4268. Please vote. [[12:51:17]] For 406 Decision taken. Now it was. Dear colleagues, there was now a second proposal from the committee. Thank you for letting me know. Adopt the bill as a law. Is there no objection? Is there no objection? I'm voting on the adoption of the bill as a law. [[B in m in s a l in]] I asked no one to deny it, said there was no objection. I've already put it to a vote. [[12:51:57]] For 340. Decision taken. The factions, please. Region Party - 158, Timoshenko Yulia Block - 120, Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense - 42, Communists - 0, Litvina Block - 20. Dear colleagues! The commission, please note, we need to make a decision here. The commission. [[B in m in s a l in]] What amendment? Dear colleagues! Attention, please calm down! If we were to start voting on the amendment right now, you're perfectly aware that we didn't pass any laws. You understand that very well. So you can't. Pisarenko's already taken his amendment. Dear colleagues! The commission that studied the problem of eliminating the consequences of the natural disaster, which occurred on July 23-27 in 2008, Winnicki, Ivano-Frankivsky, Zakarpatski, Lvivsky, Ternopilsky and Chernivsky region, insists on reporting to you, otherwise it loses its meaning. At the same time, you did not support the proposal that we take up this issue instead of the “Various” one. That's why I'm voting. Attention, please. – the proposal to return to consideration of the proposals that we do not today hear the speeches of the National Deputies in the “Variance” section, but consider the report of the interim commission of inquiry. Please vote in favour of returning to the consideration of this proposal. [[12:53:49]] For-170. The offer is not supported. Therefore, dear colleagues, we have good reason to move on to the “Variance” chapter. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the speech. Deputy Volintz, Communist faction. Prepare Unguryan, please. Peter Stepanovich Cibenko is given the right to speak. Where's Volintz? Dear colleagues, the first recorded by Volinec, and the third, Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, Volinec, passes on the right to speak to Peter Stepanovich Cibenko for six minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u70	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues! Respectable voters! Communist faction, President of the Council of the Ukrainian Veterans Organization Cibenko. The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine authorized me to come to this high public rostrum in order, first of all, to express my sincere gratitude to the sons of gratitude to the heroic war veterans, the fearless partisans and the underdogs, the famous soldiers of the rear and veterans of the Armed Forces for their victory in the Great Homeland War and the release of humanity from the brown plague of fascism. Your contribution to this victory has become decisive, which is recognized by all mankind. At the same time, I would like to thank those regional leaders who have properly organized the veneration of war veterans, labour and military service and have done everything in their power to mark Victory Day as the greatest national public holiday. For one thing, I want to apologize to fathers and mothers for what I'm going to say in the second, because the situation requires not just talking, but beating in the toilet. Thus, secondly, he also went to the rostrum to express a strong protest on behalf of the faction of the Compartia of Ukraine regarding the Fascism of Ukraine. The authorities have finally and irreversibly dealt with fascism and neo-fascism, Fascism in Ukraine is no longer a hyperbole, not an exaggeration, but a harsh reality, or even a wake-up call, a routine, and it is terrible for the country. Here are just some milestones on this road, milestones just this year. In March 2009, in elections to the Ternopol Regional Council, the ultra-right “Freedom” led by Tajnibok is defeated, a party that can be described as a pro-fascist party without undue political correctness. It is sufficient to visit the internal forums of its supporters, where each paragraph refers to a Jewish-Moscal threat. It is clear that in the yard, the crisis and the forces for someone are very much needed to keep the people in line. And Tuggnibok is today the most successful candidate for the Fuhrer role. However, the withdrawal of the Nazis into the supreme political league would mean the end of Ukraine as States. Further practical work or practical activities took place. The advertising shields in Lviv glorifying the massacres of SS-Galicin Divisions. Next was the decision of the Ternopol City Council to install a memorial board for SS-Galicín soldiers. And then there was the shuster Freedom, which, in the best traditions of gebelsian propaganda, used its passages to make a control shot at the head of war veterans who defeated Fascism. Who is he? Where did you come from? Who gave him the right to mix our history with dirt, the biography of a generation. Further, there was a disgraceful court organized by a fool in the courtroom of the judge of the Priłutsk Mountain Court of the Chernigov region, as was possible in section 4 of the Ukrainian Act on the Emancipation of the Victory of the Great Homeland War 1941-1945, which reads: “In honor of the victory in the capital of Ukraine, the hero city of Kiev, other towns and settlements of Ukraine, to hold a celebration with the symbolism of the years of the Great Homeland War”. So how could you read those words to everyone who understands it to make negative decisions about it? Consider what happened to the judge, in fact, that the decision of the Paradise Council was suspended, rather than a celebration of Victory Day using the symbolism of that time. The judge has stopped the law! And this is happening in the rule of law. And after such decisions, the judges dare to insult anyone else. These examples can be continued. The conclusion is itself sought: Fascism in Ukraine is a reality and is claimed under the acquiescence of the first persons of the State. On behalf of the Communist faction, we warn the authorities, especially the first persons of the State, that Ukraine's compatriot, its faction in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, will fight against the Fascism of the country through all available constitutional and other means. Fascism won't work! Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u71	Paul Unguryan, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u72	Good day, dear fellows, good day to you, good-bye radio listeners! Andrew Pavlovsky. I was authorized by the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko to make a statement to our faction. The next blockage by the Supreme Council's Party of Regions is the last and hopeless attempt by destructive forces to set up a blitz-breed against the government of Yulia Timoshenko, against the coalition, against economic stability, against the welfare of our society. Instead of a real fight against the crisis, the Party of Regions has set up an unstoppable conveyor of meaningless, inexpensive ultimatums that are constantly rising to the government, then to the coalition, to the Supreme Council. Threats to lead people out into the street have proved to be a "bush". The anti-crisis program of the government, through which the Party of Regions has threatened to block Parliament, has already forgotten, and now the queue, the "earlocked" reason for blocking Parliament, demanding the resignation of the Minister of Internal Affairs. Despite the fact that all factions agreed to consider this first in Parliament. This indicates that the activities of the Regional Party in the Supreme Council are a constant destruction, a constant search for the causes and means of sabotage of the work and activities of the government of Yulia Timoshenko. That's why they want to humiliate the fact that actually Julia Timoshenko remains alone in the fight against the negative effects of the world economic crisis. What will be the next reason and reason for the Party of Regions, once again, when it decides not to allow the Supreme Council to adopt such necessary economic anti-crisis laws. Despite the futile efforts of the Regional Party, the President's Secretariat to intimidate people with collapses, catastrophes, floods, social explosions, and sometimes famines, colds, and many other horrors and horrors, the fall, winter, the spring ends, and nothing like that. Despite possible difficulties and fierce opposition and sabotage, however, the government insists that pensions be paid in full and on time to the budgeters, primarily doctors, teachers, and students’ scholarships. The budget and the Pension Fund have been fully implemented in the last 4 months. Despite outright sabotage and opposition, Yulia’s government, Timoshenko, has embarked on such a desired pension reform. We need to pay attention to the activities in the international arena of Prime Minister Timoshenko of Ukraine, thanks to her efforts, Ukraine has received the brilliant results of the negotiations both in Moscow and in Washington and in Brussels, Ukraine is provided with energy resources, we are counting on gas in time, we have received international financial support in time, dozens.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u73	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u74	Thank you, I'm done. Dozens of authoritative international financial institutions of independent experts have called Julia Timoshenko the best anti-crisis manager in Eastern Europe.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u75	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u76	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u77	Vladimir Yavorowski is transferring the right to speak to Vladimir Bondarenko. What, what? Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u78	Dear radios, TV sets, and respected colleagues, I would like to address a number of issues that have recently been particularly acute. An incident at the German airport in relation to our delegation, not just the minister. The abuse, I believe, of the minister, of the diplomats, of the members of the delegation is a demonstration of the way in which individual states today manifest themselves in relation to the state of Ukraine, to its citizens. I remember when a Polish police officer shot her husband in front of his wife without any reason. I remember dozens of cases that were cited, as an example, at the faction meeting where we listened to Lucenka, and the national deputies admitted that they had suffered the same abuse. Thus, instead of defending the rights of the State today, inviting objective information rather than publications from some tabloid newspaper, we begin today if the unprepared special treatment of these people were not to be heard even by them. This shows that we do not have our own self - respect as for Ukrainians, as for Ukraine, as for a state that is a European state and wants to go there on official grounds. I would like to give an example of the abuse of the People's Deputy Status Act, which we have seen recently during, for example, the laying of flowers on May 9th. A group of national deputies could not reach the monuments where flowers were placed because someone had compiled lists that he had not included. Well, please tell me, in the territory of Ukraine, the National MP wants to put flowers in the monument, and Mr. Helletius, who heads the Department of State Security, says you are not on the lists. Who make up these lists of Baloz or John or Peter? I don't care. There is the Law “On the Status of the People’s Deputy”, which guarantees the right of a national MP far more than to lay flowers. And someone decided to make lists. Third, I'd like to pay attention. You've obviously noticed that every time we read people's requests, we meet dozens of problems that haven't been solved in Ukraine in years. They do not resolve that the request of a national MP has been unsettled. It has been transformed into a formal letter from those to whom we refer. I can give you a few examples today. So I went to the prosecutor's office and to the police and asked them to find out where the oil from the Kiev heat station was in this cold winter. I was told that this masut was sold. When did I ask what was sold for? So I found out that it was sold for about 740 grews of oil, which cost 1540 grivins. Someone's got 71 million on it. So, the police confirmed this con, they filed a criminal case for fraud. Because the chemical formula of this ointment has been changed. And the prosecutor's office, after getting this case to control the so-called so-called case, has reclassified it to be a state property theft on a particularly large scale. It's already a prosecutor's article. And that's where she died. It's been over a month.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u79	Let me finish. In connection with the fact that it was Vladimir Bondarenko who signed up.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u80	I was nine years old, but I was given the word Yavorovsky. I've got a little bit of a long talk. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u81	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u82	So this oil was sold using a chemical formula, and there's 71 million on it. He's lost his right hand. I would like to say that I went to Mr. Nastweichenko and asked where 14.6 percent of the property was shared. He confirmed that he had been stolen while incarcerated by one of the deputies of Černovetské Mr. Chub, a relative of Czernovetský. And so this case died again. No one wants to prove it anymore. I'm asking for formal receipts. I'd like to say that 10 million were stolen on counters in Kiev, 6 of my questions are going to go where I'm being confirmed that they were used not by destination, and that money was collected from citizens, kyans to install heat and water counters, again in zero. So I say, Reverend Volodymyr Mikhailovich, dear colleagues! Let us work together, perhaps a regulatory committee, to take on this responsibility, to work on the Law on the Status of the People’s Deputy. We're going to introduce a special law or we're going to develop another special law. I am willing to participate. It's about changing the attitude of the people's deputies so that we have the right here to invite someone who gives us the answer. Today, in many ministries, such smoldering answers have been developed; in local authorities, they simply work for credit slips. In order not to squander this paper in Ukraine, but to have a real supervisory function of the Supreme Council, I believe that today the Supreme Council itself needs to take a more stringent approach to the realization of its right, such as the right to request a national MP and the right to receive an objective response and the further action of those bodies that should bring order in Ukraine in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u83	Instead of Oleg Bilorus, the national deputy Gnatkevich will speak. And then there will be the King’s, who is given the right to speak by Demyanchuk and Najdion.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u84	I would like to return you to May 9. On May 9th, on the day of the Day of Victory over German Fascism, I visited my home country, Radivillishte. I want to remind you that this was the place where the big Brody operation was, and where a huge number of our people died. I want to thank the authorities of the Radivilov region for the well-organized celebration of May 9 – Victory Day and thanks to war veterans. I also visited my native village of Dobrivod, where we built a large memorial with the village’s head, Anna Djabak. I want to tell you that we have built two monuments, one monument restored at my expense is those who died on the front lines of war. Imagine, on the fronts of the war, 33 young people died from our small village. I also did research work and found 25 names that were killed by Germans, especially my father, died in the famous Polish-Ukrainian conflict, which were killed as bandits, as reported in our village, which were taken to Siberia by 25 people. Imagine, these were all young people, this simple arithmetic -- 33 plus 22, that's 55 young men who were all young, and they're all sorry. They gave up their young lives. Today people come to this memorial, they are sanctified by a priest, and I am proud of what I have done. Here we can even remember how many of our Ukrainian people were killed, how many of us were cut down, mutilated, murdered in concentration camps, burned in furnaces! And I think to myself, how pervasive my village is with that arithmetic in 33 plus 22! How long - suffering our Volin and all our Ukraine, our people, are! As we must safeguard our unity in Ukraine, how we must safeguard our independent state. And another thought. I went around our area and saw that these monuments, which had once been evident by the decision of the Company’s Air Force, were placed in almost every village, but not every village had its names cut out, but just stood a soldier bent down. Some of the monuments are already starting to collapse. It seems to me that by the 65th anniversary of Victory, we may be in the Supreme Council to accept a special determination that no one will really be forgotten and nothing will be forgotten, that in every village and village there be such monuments restored, restored, but with carved, carved names of everyone who has died in the area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u85	The word has been given by the national MP of the Kings. Six minutes. Colleagues of national deputies Demyanchuk and Najdionov transfer the right to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u86	Dear voters, at the beginning of my statement, I would like once again, on behalf of all the Communists of Ukraine, the faction of the Company of Ukraine, to congratulate the veterans of the Great Homeland War and all those who are considered heirs of the winners with a great holiday - Victory Day. Our grandfathers, who have given their lives for our bright future and present, for the future of our future generations, could not have imagined that, just over half a century later, when those with fragments of fascist metal are still alive today, they are called the President “representatives of occupying armies”, and the Fascist captors who shot at their backs not only the communists but also the peaceful population, the teachers, the doctors, the agronomists are brought up by an orange click in the ranks of heroes. After all, it is understood that, according to the Western puppeteers who hate all Soviet, socialist, Slavian puppets with Bankova and Grushevska, the fifth column, the training and internship in the West has declared war on all of us. With the indulgence of the country's top officials, on the eve of Victory Day, the event in Kiev was announced on 16 May – think! The First All-Ukrainian National-Socialist Congress, which is a challenge to the Ukrainian Constitution, Ukrainian legislation, UN General Assembly Resolution of 18 December 2007 on the inadmissibility of certain practices that contribute to the escalation of contemporary forms of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance. Joining a purse or a car is good, but there is not yet a civil position. The civic position of all those who consider themselves to be heirs of the winners should be the position of an active failure to accept the Fascism of Ukraine and the humiliation of the memory of their ancestors. We need to move on to active action when our fathers and grandfathers are insulted by the memory of the orange mud of our history. Leukko Lukyanenko announces the great Soviet Army as an occupying army, in our cities installs the Light Boxing Division of the SS-Galicina Division, and the Terno-Polish Councils heroize and memorialize the collaborators. On the other hand, there is an offensive in the style of the original fascists of modern times. The Supreme Leader of the country issued decrees for the destruction of Soviet books in libraries, the widespread clearing of archives, the destruction of Soviet monuments, the mass renaming of all and all, the replacement of history and the zombieization of the minds of our children and grandchildren. Over 2 million copies of Soviet literature have been destroyed, destroyed, and destroyed in the last five years by more than 3,000 monuments of the Soviet era, beginning with monuments to the great Lenin and ending with monuments and memorial records to Soviet cosmonauts, scientists, representatives of Soviet intelligence and artists. Their stinking and filthy orange paws also reached the holy saints, to the graves and obelisks of our Soviet warriors. And the people are silent, for all the upheavals of the locals that are taking place at the regional level are only for the joy of our enemies, for the joy of the Fifth Column. Dear compatriots, it's time to say "Enough!" We have nothing left to lose. The oligarch politicians have robbed most Ukrainians of their lives. The story is broken, the memories of the grandfathers are desecrated. It's time to realize that the whole country's sabbatical, built by three political oligarchic clans, is a game planned. From the change of Yu to Ya or one Viti to the other, nothing in principle changes in the country. Get rid of your boxes, get rid of the false press and the TV freedoms of Savik Schuster. All of the so-called media is an ugly information compost that is poured out of the throats of the namite showmen, whose salary is higher than the annual income of most Ukrainian families, and that is the zombie that today leads the country to disaster. Finally, in 18 years of so-called “independence”, if you're fed up with it, you can conclude that the choice was only between systems: socialism and capitalism. And I think that in this period of time, there's a clear conclusion: that the socialist state is more humane, it's more just. And those piles of clans that have invaded our country for 20 years can neither withdraw nor destroy what was created by our Soviet people. All those who are destroying our historical heritage today, as well as calling for the fragmentation of the unitary, united Ukraine on the Dnieper coasts, to be saddened by the usurpation of power. On behalf of the faction of the Company of Ukraine, I declare the following: it will not pass! You are the heirs of the police and the aggressors who teach your children the example of the traitor Mazepa. And we, and the majority of us in Ukraine, are the heirs of the winners. And that's the whole of our complex, all of your rage. I'm sure the orange brown dogs who today have raised their hand to the memory of our ancestors and their dirty paws are destroying the graves and obelisks to a great Soviet soldier, will be punished justly, both historical and in the Zakarpathian woods. On 16 May, I would like to consider my statement on the Nationalist Assembly to be a parliamentary request to the Attorney-General of the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Ministry of Justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u87	I would like to invite the national deputy John the Hare, given that the national MP, George, has given him his word, six minutes' notice, please. Prepare the People's Deputy of Culchinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u88	Dear National Deputies! John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. I want to say a few words in defense of the village, in defense of the peasants. Yesterday, farmers and representatives of the Union of Agricultural Cooperatives took care of the Supreme Council under the slogan “No – Destroying the Village!” As a representative of the Ukrainian People’s Party, I was among these people and supported their demands. What are their requirements? First, it is to adopt amendments to the Law on Agricultural Workers to finally open up the possibility of organizing this movement so that an efficient infrastructure for farmers can finally be created for agricultural producers. The Supreme Council is not in a hurry to accept the amendments to this bill, and I think this is a major political mistake, this is a misunderstanding of the situation in the country today. Their second requirement is to agree to an allocation of 500 million dollars from the stabilization fund to support the village, to support the farms. This money will go to credit and other possibilities. To do that, we just have to give the entire Azarov committee this kind of agreement. Once again, months go by, no one gives that consent. But look what is happening today in the countryside, which weather conditions today as the banking system have blocked agricultural production. And we're playing this in the Supreme Council, we don't know what it is, and we don't want to make an elementary decision: in two or three minutes, and we're going to be able to put some money into the development of this village. The third requirement is to stop the attack, you could say, on farmers, and that's an appeal to the Attorney General's Office. I already spoke from this rostrum a few weeks ago and drew the attention of our government, the Supreme Council, to such a problem that today there is a law under which an agricultural enterprise producing sugar on the donor raw materials is taxed for the implementation of VAT sugar. We have to assume that this sugar was produced last year, from the harvest last year. It's actually a back-up law. We said let's change it, and the government promised it, promised it, promised the Supreme Council, and again, the carriage was in the same place. People are good, let's finally think and act effectively in this direction. That is why I am drawing the attention of both the Supreme Council and the government to this problem that strikes today at the agricultural producer. I can say the same about meat when I was here. Today, in the middle of Ukraine, all meatballs are killed by what kind of meat and quality. Today there are farms that have 400 to 500 heads of such well-fed good bulls -- you can't give up because they've moved abroad because you don't know what they want to feed this people. Once again, let us keep order. Let's open up the ability to form an internal market at the expense of the production of our own manufacturer, not to import products from abroad. Otherwise how will the village develop, otherwise how can we solve the problem of rural unemployment? I also want to draw attention to another bill. That's what I'm talking to the leadership of the Supreme Council. For almost two years now, my bill on personal agriculture has been on the Supreme Council. I suggest you lower the tax pressure there, and you take it to zero. No one wants to join the Supreme Council. Why? Because they don't want to eventually develop the village. They do not want the farm type to be established; they do not want the land to remain in the hands of the Ukrainians; they do not want the land to remain in the hands of those who live and work on the land. And I think it's the opposition of the oligarchic structures, it's the opposition of those potentially large landowners that are being formed in Ukraine today, because there is no appropriate legislation, because the authorities are not making peace with the land. Because about 40 percent of the pies are not needed today, that is, either people have died or they have not claimed this pie. What is the status of this land today, unless it is so difficult to remove it from the State Fund, to create a state fund and then distribute it as it is for the benefit of the nations, for the good of the prospects. No one takes a pair of lips, robs this land because they want to take and create a latifund, create a Latin American version of Ukraine's development, not a European development path. And to one more problem, I'm drawing your attention, it's an environmental problem. This week, we had a bill to impose a moratorium on changing the destination of recreational land. The point is that from year to year, from day to day, they're cut off at the plantation house, they're destroying sports buildings, they're destroying playgrounds, and they have to put up a moratorium, they've gone somewhere, and they don't know where they're going. So I'm going to go to the Supreme Council, and I'm going to go to the Supreme Council, and I'm going to put this law into the plenary next week, and let's take a look at it. I realize that there are great interests, big companies, construction companies, and others behind this, but let's think about the nation's prospects, let's think about the health of our people, let's think about raising our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u89	People’s MP, Mikola Kulczynski, is invited to prepare for the national MP, Lapinius.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u90	On April 12, I was invited to live in Lviv for a folk night, a pension injustice in Ukraine. And I am authorized to read from the rostrum of the Supreme Council the resolution of this folk night, which is called “Pension injustice in Ukraine”. Thus, he protestes more against the disgraceful division of the Ukrainian people against privileged and ordinary pensioners. Inequitable in the calculation of pensions, according to which privileged pensioners in 20 years of service may be assigned a pension of 90 per cent of the salary of the last month of work, while ordinary pensioners may need to immediately apply their monthly salary for more than 13 years of work, and in 20 years they will be assigned a pension of 27 per cent of their earnings. Comparatives in pensions that exist in the pension of ordinary Ukrainian citizens, which is that for 20 years of female internship and 25 years of male service, the minimum pension is set to the minimum living minimum for disabled people. At the same time, according to the Ukrainian Government’s decree of 26 March 2008, No. 265 has been paid to the same extent to persons who may not have worked a day. The determination of the size of the pension for ordinary "black" Ukrainian citizens, depending on the date of the pension assignment, rather than the duration of the insurance internship and the amount of the salary. Establishing an unfair mechanism for calculating pensions for millions of ordinary Ukrainian citizens of pre-retirement age, since for most of them, every month official work and payment of insurance to the PFCs has an impact on the reduction in the size of the pension. Forcing Ukrainian citizens who work abroad and pay insurance for PFCs and register in Ukraine with only one tax payer, which could result in the mass deportation of Ukrainian illegal employees if information about these citizens comes into the hands of foreign migration or police services. Assignment in accordance with the still distorted legal acts privileged to the former National MPs of the USSR, the Soviet Union, the former First Secretary of the Committee of Ukraine and members of their families, and so forth, on the basis of the current official salary of the Minister of Ukraine. More supports the initiative of President Viktor Yushchenko of Ukraine, which was expressed on 31 March 2009 in an annual letter to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the abolition of pension privileges and the appointment of pensions to Ukrainian citizens under a single pension law, depending on only two criteria: length of service and length of service. I'll pay you. More than that, the National Deputies of Ukraine are required to adopt a law to abolish all pension privileges and to establish a fair mechanism for the calculation of pensions, depending only on the length of the internship and the size of the earnings. The adoption of an annual pension bill depends on the individual salary ratios of citizens. Approval of the Retirement Act for each full year over the normal age of 2 per cent of the living minimum for the incapacitated, with a gradual increase in this percentage. The All-U.S. referendum is launching a national initiative on such issues. First. Cancelling parliamentary immunity.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u91	Let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u92	the inviolability enshrined in article 80 of the Constitution of Ukraine. Elections to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for open party lists, where candidates are elected by the electorate, and elections to local councils for the majority system are held in Ukraine. The abolition of pension benefits and the granting of pensions to all Ukrainian citizens under the only fair pension law depends on only two criteria: length of service and amount of earnings. The resolution was adopted by a participant of more than one and a half thousand. The city of Lviv. I signed the resolution Yuri Suhević, the Hero of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u93	Before you know it, I'd like to invite National Deputy Xenya Lapin to prepare for Hani Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u94	Xenya Lapina. Group “For Ukraine”. Let me say a few words for our long - suffering small business in Ukraine. I would like to point out that a month ago, nearly a month ago, the Supreme Council fairly friendlyly refused to vote for a bill that they tried to significantly increase the burden on small businesses. But for the government, this proved to be absolutely no reason to reexamine its policies. The government, outside its authority, passed a decree of 366 that, without any right, imposed additional payments on small business entities to the Pension Fund. Now, a few words about numbers. What can the Pension Fund derive from such overstretching on small businesses? Experts estimate that this is what the Pension Fund itself confirms about two billion dollars a year. For a small business, it's a huge cost. But what about the Pension Fund? 13 billion deficits are the official deficit of the pension fund. And 26 billion a year is spent on you thinking? Special benefits are paid. 26 billion on special pensions and 2 billion on small businesses that are needed by entrepreneurs today to work. Look at that! They don't answer each other! So the government, instead of getting rid of these special pensions and thus balancing the pension fund and even closing its deficit, went a completely different way, loaded up a small business that just now faces a dilemma: shut down, completely abandoning this activity and going to the labor market to wait for these jobs to come up, which today is not from where. Or to stand in shadow mode, to trade in these markets from cues and small chairs, as it was in the early 1990s, without paying for anything in the budget, but paying for the various bribes of our militia. And then we ask where the corrupt police come from. Well, that's what she's made of! That's how we create conditions. I'd like to inform you, dear fellows! That the small entrepreneurs of May 20-21 will be doing large-scale care to inform the government and the Supreme Council that there is a huge disaster with small businesses and that urgent measures are needed to ensure that there are no further disasters such as illegal government decisions. Illegal government decisions must be annulled! Thank you, fellows of honor!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u95	I'd like to invite the People's Deputy Hannu Herman the faction of the Party of the Regions. Prepare the national deputy of Vyezovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u96	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, citizens of Ukraine! I went out to this rostrum to thank, first of all, all the factions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for helping us today to take the first step in the matter that we started on the resignation of the drunkard minister and for helping us to remove Yuri Lucenka from his duties, which he disgracefully carries out, and today we have taken the first, very important step. I would also like to thank all the factions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for supporting today's long-standing initiative of the Party of Regions and our colleague Gregory Smitzhüch for banning the gaming business in Ukraine. I believe that those blockades of the rostrum that we have been forced to do for a few days have produced this result, and I promise Yuri Vitaliyovich that we will certainly bring the matter to an end and that unfortunately we have not been able to go another way, because there were no documents in Ukraine before today that we could, the official documents that we could demonstrate from the rostrum of the Supreme Council, and therefore we were forced not to vote without such documents so that we would not fail the case. Today we have achieved our own, the documents in Ukraine are, we will give the MPs an opportunity to get to know them, we will get to know them widely from the entire Ukrainian society, and I am convinced that the deputies, when they see the objective reality, not the one they issue each time in another version of Yuri Vitaliovich, will vote in favour of his resignation. Yesterday at a press conference, Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko said that the ministers of the government of Yanukovic also drank. You know, I'm not a drinking specialist, because I'm not drinking with other people's men, so Julia Volodymyrna knows the subject better than I do, and I'm giving her a palm tree here. I'm an expert in the press, and I've been reading the Western press for a long time, and I don't remember any case of any serious or unserious, yellow or white Western newspaper writing about some drunk minister from the government of Yanukovich. Instead, I have in my hands 18 of the world's most authoritative newspapers, including reports of such important news outlets as REUTERS, BBC, the Chinese "Synhua" and so on, and so on, which, based on their own sources, wrote about the shameful scandal and incident in Frankfurt, which unfortunately happened with the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. And here I really am a better specialist than Julia Volodymyrna, and I take the courage to say that I trust these newspapers, and I wouldn't advise my colleagues from democratic factions, so-called, to say that this is a "yellow press," because they take on a very bad thing when they do BI-Sl, REUTERS, Sinhua and so on, as a "yellow press". I would also like to apologize not only today from this rostrum but also from this rostrum. I would like to apologize to millions of our adherents, millions of Ukrainians for whom the story of the Great Homeland War is expensive and close, and who have been very hurt and offended. On May 8, during the Savik Schuster program, where one plane, one deck, was set up, a leader, the then leader of the Soviet Union, who won the Fascism with the leader of Nazi Germany. I can understand a journalist named Schuster, who worked in Western editions and for whom a similar topic may be normal. I can understand that because I've worked in Western editions, too, I know how people who don't feel about this. But in Ukraine there are millions of people for whom this wound has not yet survived and has not been prolonged. And on May 8th, before the most sacred day for the Ukrainians, when people are going to celebrate their biggest holiday, which they liken to ask about the role of the Soviet Union in World War II, is at least incorrect. And I think Savik Schuster should apologize to the Ukrainians for that. I would like not only to say thank you, but also to ask. I would like to ask Julia Timoshenko, who was in Lviv yesterday, whom I had asked several times before, and also on the direct air of the “5-channel” asked her deputy Turkinov to mention the poor poor poor family of the Dudecs from the village of the Gorski Mikolai district of Lviv, who are still awaiting reparation for having suffered from the flood. In this village during the flood, you remember when it was, in person, Julia Volodymyrna. And this family was also at that meeting where she swore that each family would receive compensation. Today, this family has not been compensated. And the argument is pretty cynical and pretty evil. The local head says that the family did not vote for Timoshenko. I ask Julia Volodymyrna to rise above her party interests and to mention that she is indeed the Prime Minister of Ukraine. And I want to tell you that the interest of one family is as important to me as the interest of all those who have suffered during this flood. I wanted to, also, tell those colleagues who were here to read the Butt statement that they should throw those chewy papers where they should be, where they should be. Yesterday our party leader Viktor Janukovic, speaking in Donetsk, reiterated that we are interested in overcoming the crisis. For this country to overcome the crisis. We're so different.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u97	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u98	We're helping our country to get out of the crisis and talk about what we're up against today, it's some very funny statement about where the trash is. I once again wanted to assure Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenka that he would be retired. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u99	The people’s representative of Vyezovsky is invited to the floor. Prepare the National Deputy Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u100	“Our Ukraine”, Vladimir Vizevski. Dear Ukrainians! The “For Ukraine” MPs call on the political forces and officials of the state to stop trading in Ukraine’s national interests in order to solve personal, clan or party problems. Regrettably, this trade, accompanied by trips to the Kremlin of our politicians, has grown to a size that threatens the very foundations of national statehood. In January, we sharply condemned Ukraine’s unprecedented, unfavourable gas agreements signed by the Timoshenko Initiative in Moscow. The formal price of gas for Ukraine is the same as for Germany, although we are much closer to Russia. Gazprom's transit costs two or three times the lower price and, above all, the Prime Minister has agreed for 11 years to buy huge, non-necessary volumes of gas and pay Gazprom fantastic fines for their shortcomings. [[No force, no fall.]] And now every month, Putin and Gazprom decide: to fine Ukrainians for buying too little gas, or to postpone the imposition of fines if the Ukrainian prime minister does the Kremlin's demands. These are challenges of a different nature. For example, the Russians wanted to avoid paying even a small price for Ukraine’s transit for just a few years, please let our prime minister agree. We're putting gas in our underground vaults this year, and you're not paying us for transit for three or four years. So this is the price and this is the bookkeeping. Of course, she did not spend much time with Moscow in the promise to review the agreements in part of the fine waiver and reduce the volume of gas. Instead, in the bad memory of the Kumovo time, it was hard to imagine that the representatives of Ukraine, by getting our Ukraine into such a cabal situation, when we are not only buying gas on the trip, but in an equal place we are blaming Gazprom for all the old astronomical sums. This situation has gone too far, and the Ukrainian Parliament has to set a day and hold a special session and find out fully what and what purpose did we sign in Moscow, and what should we do to break free from the binding plot of Putin and today’s government? Moreover, Julia Volodymyrna joyfully reports that she wants to sign a similar treaty and nuclear fuel that will have even more disastrous consequences for our energy and the economy. The parliamentary group “For Ukraine!” insists that we consider in the near future the bills that have been tabled by our deputies, namely Bill 3368 and 4200 on the moratorium before.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u101	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u102	on a moratorium by 2011 on the establishment of new and higher existing taxes and small business tax checks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u103	Before you know it, I'd like to invite the People's Deputy Karmazin. Prepare for the People's Deputy of Paris. Considering that there is a note here to convey the word Yuri Anatoliovich, 6 minutes’ notice.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u104	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Dear Ukrainian people! I want to draw the attention of society today to one of the letters that I receive to thousands and, unfortunately, to a national MP bound by the Constitutional Court's decision virtually nothing but to publish, to give a political assessment, to do nothing to help these people, to the people who are complaining of a court order, especially in the Supreme Court of Ukraine. On May 7th, when the entire country celebrated the Victory anniversary and celebrated those dates, a large group of residents of the center of Kyiv Shevchenkovsky district under the leadership of the professor of our university, the National University of Taras Shevchenk, Mr. Zhukov, took part in a protest before the Supreme Court of Ukraine. Unfortunately, these shares are not shown on television. Why did the action of the Supreme Court offend the congregation of Shevchenkov district? Since 2006, a kindergarten of such a company has been donated to the DIB in exchange for the company’s obligation to build a new kindergarten. The crowd was arrogantly deceived, the kindergarten wasn't built, nobody was going to build it, because they didn't even order the project. The district and city authorities have decided to restore the work of the kindergarten. The higher court of commerce returned the ditsadak to the community. There was no legal basis for reviewing this decision, but the Supreme Court was overstepping the requirements of the law and not for the first time in this case. As early as 2004, the prosecutor’s office had asked the court to return the ditsad to the community, which was done by the Court of Appeal and the Supreme Economic Court. But the Supreme Court found this evidence: it was not as if a decommissioning had been established. Ladies and gentlemen, for 100 people, you have almost 100 cars! Walk on foot and see where the garden of children that does not exist has been destroyed! Although kindergartens in Ukraine are not allowed to privatize. People are curious about what it is, if not corruption, about what other reason it is that, in full compliance with the community’s and state’s arguments, the masters of the upper garment are legitimized to deprive children of their right to preschool education. Is it for the money interests of businessmen? Why does the Supreme Court not give such judges, on the other hand, permission to cancel legal decisions?" I quote Professor Zhukov, this is for those judges who want to bring Karmazin to trial, as a man without honor, without conscience, who is called the head of the Kharkiv Court of Appeal, who set up the sauna and everything else, took the car completely illegally and free of charge for half a million and so on. This has not been evaluated by the Supreme Court of Ukraine. The crowd demanded that the members of the protest, take the Chamber to the Supreme Court's farm affairs, to review the Supreme Court's decision because the Chamber had already made unjust decisions, and to refer the case to the Court's Chamber in civil matters. But whether they hear the voice of the Chamber, whether they hear the voice of the MP, or eventually the privatization of the kindergartens will be legitimized by the rulings of the Supreme Court, or whether it will continue, I can't say, but I hope that I will hear that the participants in the protest will be heard. I would also like to draw the attention of the entire State of Ukraine and the President of Ukraine to the problem that has been raised from this rostrum not once, where 370 votes were raised to ask the President of Ukraine for the release of Mr. Durdintz Tiberius from his position as so-called deputy head of the Security Service, the Chief of the Directorate for Combating Corruption and Organized Crime, because this was done without permission by Parliament, because Tiberius Durdinac illegally held this office. He came up with what he put into the stream of listening to both the politicians and the leadership of the Attorney General, as well as many, many judges, and others were doing things. Undoubtedly, there is evidence that the smuggling, the other things, is being done by the structure that he was directing. Until now, despite the charges brought against him by the Attorney General's Office, despite the announcement of a search for this man, he has not been released until now by the decree of the President of Ukraine, I'm talking to you, Victor Andriyovich. You promised you'd never have this with you, that you'd never be persecuted! Then they gave instructions to listen to all their companions! Your head of the Secretariat gave instructions, and they did not respond. I think you'll respond to this speech, I think you'd respond to the decision of the Kyiv District Administrative Court, which decided to secure my administrative appeal to Mr. Durdinz for illegal office, and in February I sent the District Court rulings. But you didn't keep it, you didn't guarantee the Constitution. Please release the Security Service from the disgrace, and release Tiberius Durdinsz, issue that decree, and put that facsimile in the Secretariat! And let's live by the Constitution. That's what I have.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u105	Yes, thank you. Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u106	request to the Head of the Onopenka Judicial Branch for that matter and question to the President: ensure the exercise of the human rights guaranteed by the Constitution! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u107	By the word of the People's Deputy of Paris.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u108	Papuy Andrey, “For Ukraine” MP. The second year in a row in Ukraine is an external independent assessment of the knowledge of school graduates, which began on May 6 and will be completed on June 5. The second year in a row, the Ministry of Education and Science, under the leadership of John Wakarczuk, provides a high level of organization for testing and the reform of the system of entry into colleges is gaining increasing public approval. In general, 462,000 graduates expressed their desire to pass the test and become students. More than 5,000 test points will be opened. An estimated 9,000 public observers and journalists will be observed. Tens of thousands of workers were involved in the test. A clear organization of testing ensures its objectivity and prevents the flow of information. External independent evaluation is a revolutionary change in the Ukrainian education system. This reform is called upon to promote the prestige of real knowledge and to eradicate corruption when entering universities and to give everyone with the right level of knowledge free access to higher education. External independent evaluation is a transition from the Soviet system to European standards. It will allow talented children to gain higher education regardless of their place of residence and background. This is really a revolutionary breakthrough in Ukrainian education. After all, this is a real step towards the approval of the Ukrainian language not only in the field of education but also in the state as a whole. The parliamentary group “For Ukraine!” consistently supports the implementation of independent evaluation and plays an important role in the adoption of Law 4241 in the first reading. We recall how difficult it was and how much opposition to the adoption of this law had proved to be in Parliament. But it is this law that is called upon to make reform irreversible. Unfortunately, not only did we not adopt Bill 4241 as a whole this week but we did not see it on the schedule of meetings. And that's why we urge both the Head of the Supreme Council and the coalition and the leaders of the MP factions to stop blocking the passage of this bill and to do everything we can to get it into the agenda next week. To honor the Ukrainian Parliament, despite the powerful lobbying of corruptionists from education, to finally adopt this law as a whole and to make the reform of evaluation of graduates' knowledge irreversible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-15-m0.u109	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Dear radio listeners! The year of the National Deputies in the “Victory” is over. Let me remind you that the next plenary meeting will take place next Tuesday, May 19th, at 10 a.m. As always, there will be a meeting of the Conciliation Council on Monday at 11 May. Given that this week has been a special and the Supreme Council has only worked one day, the agenda of this week will be the basis for the next week, but the Conciliation Council will make the final decision, obviously taking into account the comments, proposals for and inclusion of the Euro Bills, and other bills proposed today. So I declare the plenary session of the morning of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed.
