ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:53]] They registered cards in the 426 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, allow me to provide you with information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in plenary meetings on March 3, 2009. Twenty-four issues of order were discussed, four laws and four decrees were adopted, eight bills were adopted on a basis, one bill and one draft decree were rejected. As a result of a review of President Ukraine's proposals, the President of Ukraine was vetoed for three laws. Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules, 30 minutes are allocated on Wednesday for statements by national deputies with proposals, announcements, and messages. National deputies of Ukraine are requested to sign up for the speech. Yes, there's a recording going on, please put the names of the national MPs on the board. Shershun Mikola Haritonovich, Lithuanian Block faction. Prepare the Klimec People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u2	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! About Ukrainian roads, the whole of Europe knows and wonders how you can still ride them today, one of the most important transport arteries in our country, which are being moved by people and cargo, both Ukrainian and foreign. Passengers and technicians suffer because of poor - quality roads. Very often, it is because of the unsatisfying condition of the road that road traffic causes that people die. They cannot boast about their roads and the people of Ternopolska, and they know the bitter cost of their exploitation. In just two years on the Ternopol road, almost 17 kilometers long, which is part of the general use routes and passes through the residential arrays, with an extremely large number of traffic flows, 138 road-transport adventures have occurred, most of them because of the terrible asphalt-cetone coverage of the roadway. As a result of these incidents, five people have died today and 75 have been injured. For a long time, the road was repaired at the expense of the city’s budget. To date, however, there is no cost of maintaining the road. Then there's nothing to fix it for. Thus, the danger of road accidents is not only being preserved but also exacerbated. To your knowledge, this situation has even forced the residents of the residential area through which this road is situated, to stop the traffic from moving through a living human wall. This question cannot help but concern me as Ukraine's national deputy from the Lithuanian bloc, where the Ternopil region is anchored. Residents of the district center constantly talk about this road and ask for help in maintaining it properly. And this is our common problem that requires an immediate solution. And the reason for this terrible state of the road is that the Ternopil Roads Service has failed to implement Kabmin's instructions of September 11, 2007 on the transfer of the roadway to state property. Therefore, the Lithuanian bloc has to call on the government to pay attention to the above-mentioned arrangement and to take the necessary steps to address the issue. If we ignore that request now, we will be able to lose much more, especially if we consider that the life of the ternopolans is at stake. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u3	Klimec National Deputy, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u4	I'd like to give the floor to the People's Deputy Rybug.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u5	This gives Sergi Ribuku the right to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u6	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Yesterday the Supreme Council once again overcame the President's veto on the Law on Crisis Prevention in the Agribusiness Complex. Surprisingly, the Supreme Council has once again looked like a stimulator, in our view, a confrontation between the President and the Cabinet of Ministers. But think about it, from October of the month, six times the APC anti-crisis law travels from the Supreme Council to the President, from the President to the Kabmin, the Kabmin to the Supreme Council. And a car, as they say, is now there. Since October of last year! What's the result? I say the result for the peasants. The issue of loans for the village is not solved; the banking problems are dependent. Three and a half months or four and a half million farmers receive no allowance for years of milk or meat or for any product. And that's three and a half billion dollars a year for peasants. I mean, this woe-law has made things worse in the country. The faction of the Party of the Regions would like to remind the majority, I ask you to listen to who took responsibility. We helped you overcome the veto once again under the anti-crisis law under the APC. But just because we're saying this, we're constructive opposition and we're taking a constructive position that concerns agriculture and the APC as a whole. But be a little bit constructive, listen to our suggestions. Look, when we were preparing the anti-crisis law, we were proposing to set up a stability fund, and we were off the hook. We've submitted, Mikola Janovich Azarov has made proposals for acceptable to all, and banks, and the APC of new forms of village lending. We didn't hear. We recommended not to burden the APC law with the problems of the National Bank because the President would not sign. They didn't listen. Next. The faction of the Party of Regions and Communists, in this case Catherine Sameilik, has been asked to continue financing agricultural machinery -- it's 70 factories, 120 factories, 70,000 workers, it's 4.5 billion productions, no, and here the Herson factory has, and hops, and so on and so on. Ignored. But China gave us 36,000 motorcycles. We're raising China's economy. Here's an anti-crisis procedure for you. It would be better not to adopt that law. But the main reason, not in this anti-crisis law, is the uncertainty of the government and the parliamentary majority in the basic principles of modern agrarian politics. In 17 years, colleagues, everything changed around and in agriculture in particular. And the main problem is that the government continues to cling to the numbers in agriculture. It washes off the negotiable costs, it's the basic funds, it's the destruction of the agricultural base. A week later, parliamentary hearings, Wednesday, after the APC. We've initiated them, the faction of the Party of Regions, and we're going to show you how to change agrarian politics to make it fit. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u7	Oleg Belarus, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. People's Chamberlain, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u8	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! Ukraine entered a year of presidential elections with all, unfortunately, the signs of a dirty political struggle. A large-scale anti-government company has been launched by the Ukrainian Security Service. In fact, political repression began in the country. The practice of listening to telephone conversations among politicians, national MPs, political leaders, government officials, and government officials has been restored. Unfortunately, what did Presidential candidate Viktor Yushchenko stand against, namely, the brutal use of law enforcement in the political struggle, become a reality today. Last night, another dangerous event took place. After 22 hours, an energy customs officer was detained, carrying out his duties under interstate gas contracts. In fact, the Russian gas was scattered for the state of Ukraine. These actions are described by criminals by the Ukrainian Security Service as the possession of foreign property. Think of it: Honorable colleagues, acting in the interests of the state is now a crime. The question is, "How could that be?" The answer is simple and the price of the question is $5 billion. Either this money belongs to the state of Ukraine, or to the international mafia with Ukrainian roots. I would like to inform those who are now hiding behind high government offices and organizing the activities of the public authorities in the interests of personal wealth. We can hold similar blows, and we deserve to give them an answer. Already today, the Yulia Timoshenko faction requires hearing at a meeting of the Supreme Council at 12:30 p.m. with the head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the famous businessman Valery Horoshkovsky and the well-known adventurer Valentin Nastavajchenk. We insist on the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry based on the facts of corruption in the higher echelons of power. We urge the Attorney-General of Ukraine, Medvedzk, his deputy Victor Pshonka, who is directly overseeing the activities of the BAF, to take immediate action to halt the illegal, illegal activities of the Ukrainian Security Service. We ask the national deputies of Ukraine and the chairman to put the daily bill 3596 in order to arrange for the appointment of the executive director of the BSS to be appointed by the Supreme Council, not in an antilegal manner. We also appeal to the President of Ukraine, Victor Yushchenk, for the immediate cessation of anti-government activities under his authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u9	Pétovka, a national deputy, hands over the right to speak to Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u10	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “For Ukraine!” Dear voters, dear colleagues, of course we can pretend that nothing happened, but yesterday in Parliament there was an extraordinary event, considering what is happening in Parliament, the so-called democratic parliamentary majority. And yesterday this so-called parliamentary majority, without any argument and without any professional discussion, resigned a member of the cabinet, a professional person, the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ogryzka. I wonder how that happened. One political force that is part of the coalition, which is the leader of the Julia Timoshenko coalition, has given little or no half a fraction of the vote to ensure this liberation. A representative of the second political power, who did not vote, but who is the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, made sure that this decision would pass, because he had every reason not to raise the issue to the vote under the Rules, but led him, apparently knowing that the decision had been taken and the votes were released. The question is, what is the point of the democratic coalition? What is the essence of the activities of those who call themselves patriots and Democrats? The group “For Ukraine!” did not join the coalition because we were confident that the coalition agreement would not be implemented in any way or in any form. According to the context, there is no indication that foreign policy should be pursued depending on Russia, but Ogrezka was removed. And in no form is it said that without even asking in the coalition part of the NUNS faction, ministers who are in government by the quota of this faction should be recorded. The question is, Is anyone still responsible for the coalition’s activities, or will at least the patriotic part of the coalition continue to swallow these humiliations? Because everyone understands that Snake Island was used yesterday only as an excuse. Everyone knows that perhaps not even everyone in this room knows where Snake Island is, but they know very well where the Kremlin is, which is dissatisfied with Ukraine’s independent foreign policy course. And the debate that was made tells us once again what we've been talking about for months now: the BUIT and the Party of Regions are essentially the same. For them, it's not ideas, it's an independent course, it's a struggle for power. And we have, if not the second of September, the third of March, if not the second of conspiracies, is another conspiracies. I have a question more than anything about people who are patriots: colleagues, how much can we play with these politicians who are holding us for nothing and only fight for our portfolios? Let's shake it up and work for Ukraine! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u11	Instead of Schmelov, there will be the Kings, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u12	Good morning! So far, the "love friends" throat of each other's rodent, on behalf of the Communist faction, wanted to inform you of the outcome of the All-Ukrainian action "Jushtenko-chemodan-America". It is known that in more than 3 weeks, the action covered most of the regions and took off at Odessa on 23 February in Kiev in early February. We can safely state that the people's impeachment to the President has taken place. The numerous buckets of heels gathered all over Ukraine are an assessment of Yushchenko's activities and his star band. In Krestatika, the outcome of the action was presented. The participants gathered in Kiev’s main square to tell everyone what they knew led to disaster. The lives of the vast majority of the population — workers, peasants, intellectuals, soldiers, small entrepreneurs, students, pensioners — deteriorate every day. The nationalist and oligarch regime translates into the people all the burdens of the global economic crisis: workers do not pay their wages, are thrown out into the streets or are sent to unpaid vacations; commercial banks have driven half-ways into a debt pit; prices and tariffs have been ghastly jumped, the rate is falling rapidly; in the midst of the winter, heating has been shut down in whole cities – and at that time, the General of the BSC is conducting exhibitions to the soldiers of the UN UPA, and the Minister of Yushchenkov calls the Russian language “dog language”. The direct responsibility lies with Victor Yushchenko, who has turned the country into a feeder for oligarch vampires drinking blood from his fellow countrymen. Without the consent of the people of Ukraine, they are being drawn into NATO. The regime continuously provokes gas diplomatic and other wars with Slav brothers. He doesn't care that we don't want to be slaves of the United States and enemies of Russia. We are being tried to become an unspeakable flock, obediently going to battle on the leash of the Americans. If you're a patriot, you're in trouble. It is also the responsibility of Yushchenko and his nationalist calling, agents of foreign influence and ideal heirs of traitors, nationalists. We declare that we will not tolerate those who cause and humiliate the people of Ukraine. We are not going to ask the President and his environment to abandon his criminal course. It is pointless to persuade traitors who have long sold their country to their foreign oligarchs to resign. And today we were planning on handing the Presidential Company a plane ticket. But given the need to purchase tickets and other members of the presidential community, in particular the ex-Minister for Foreign Affairs, and probably not the Chairman of the BSS, as well as their hundreds of connoisseurs who have been temporarily buried in the cabinets of the governments, the secretariat. We are beginning to raise funds on another flight, a one-way flight on the Ukrainian Titanic, which I hope will reach the island of Zmejinno. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u13	National Deputy Tikhov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Anatoly Kirilovich Kinach.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, we often hear calls for patriotism in our hall. I have to remind once again that true patriotism is primarily a state's ability to defend its national interests, a competitive economy, a decent standard of living for its citizens, and the confidence of people tomorrow. In reality, we have, unfortunately, the opposite, the cynical opposition of the President and Prime Minister, the unprecedented decline in the qualifications of the Cabinet of Ministers, the chaotic corrupt policies of the National Bank, and here in the Hall, the so-called, ineffective coalition. This deepens not only the systemic economic crisis in Ukraine but, in fact, creates a collapse of the whole structure of our country’s life. The decrease in production is unprecedented, minus 34 percent after January 2009. At the same time, the state is transformed into a beggar and a world with an outstretched hand. The government is sending letters to dozens of countries asking for a debt date, sending letters to the International Monetary Fund according to the content of which the national economy is destroying and the decline in the standard of living of our citizens is increasing. The failure to pay taxes on the added cost of industry, the elimination of the tax bill, the breakdown by the government of the signing of the Ashkhabad Agreement on Co-operation, this creates conditions essentially for the destruction of the scientific and technical potential of our nation. And in January of this year, Ukraine’s machine building dropped by 58 percent. To this day, the banking system does not have the only anti-crisis program of the Cabinet of Ministers and the National Bank. As a result of one of the highest accounts rates in Europe, 12 percent, 27-30 percent, and essentially the entire real economy of Ukraine is isolated from credit resources, including small and medium-sized businesses. This is a question that today is essentially hostage to the unprecedented political cynical opposition, the incompetence of power of millions of Ukrainian citizens. Especially those who believed the state and took mortgages to build housing and solve their problems. The abuse of banks, the raising of interest in unilateral order, the confiscation of property, have already led to tragedies in thousands of Ukrainian families. We demand an immediate anti-crisis programme, changes, additions to the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u15	Give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u16	The immediate introduction to Parliament of an anti-crisis programme, changes, additions to the State budget, otherwise Ukraine is looking forward to very severe shocks, including further declines in the standard of living of citizens and social political upheavals. You can't do that, you can't do it again, you can do it again, you can't torture people, you can't hostage the whole state, the economy and the people, you can go away.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u17	Katerina Vaschuk, Lithuanian Block faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u18	Dear Head, my dear colleagues, perhaps the wisest decision of the Supreme Council today would be to impose moratoriums on politics and take seriously the issues that would help the country today to survive every citizen, every working group, every enterprise, save jobs and provide at least a minimal opportunity to work effectively under those conditions. What are some of the questions I want to raise today? First, ask the National Bank with a request, as you would like to call it, but study with all the banks in Ukraine that are lending the agricultural sector the issue of extension of loans to those groups that can't pay them and lend them to those who want them today to work in the labor community. There's a mortgage, there's an opportunity to work, there's no credit. The second question. Before the decision of the NCRE, there is such an organ, and it must be needed, and it makes good decisions. But the decision that peasants today have to pay for advance electricity is to pay fines for an unused limit. And if they've saved up, they've done a good job. No, you paid a fine for not using electricity. Where's the peasant's money today? At no cost, they took agrarian products, prices to date are low, and they just can't pay the advance. I have a lot of references from the Mikolai region, Hersonsky, Volinsky, Ravensky, Ternopil, and many others, from the peasants who are asking for a change in this decision by NCRE. So from the MP Corps today, I'm going to this important institution, and I'm going to consider the request of the peasants. And one more thing, it's already addressed to Minfin, to Kabmin. During the past year, an unsurpassed budget for many articles that would help farmers today, namely, the unsurpassed condition of cattle, the underpaid 30 percent for technical compensation, and this would help rural motorists. And most importantly, the VAT has not been returned to many agrarian labour groups.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u19	Give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u20	So today, this budget needs to be completed, for the day before the solstice, which has already begun in the southern regions. And every penny of the village is on its way to the soybeans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u21	Alla Alexandrovska is handing over the right to speak to Najdion College, please. Prepare Pauline.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u22	Dear colleagues! Citizens of Ukraine! The Hersonian public! On another occasion, I am particularly concerned about the Prime Minister, the Minister for Education and Science, the President of Ukraine, Yushchenko, and their subordinates, unfortunately, not the will of the people and the requirements of the law. This is the case with the Head of the Hersonian Authority, Selinkov, and the Head of the Hersonian Regional Education and Science Administration, Sukh. Today, what is happening around the Teremok Educational Rehabilitation Centre can be called a targeted attack on orphans, children with disabilities. The aim of government fraud is to destroy a child's house and then seize its territories. Finally, let those who are involved in actions against the Teremek Children's House feed themselves. Indeed, some today call such criminal acts State policy. Suh Valentin Vassiljević, Chief of Regional Education and Science, by his orders, covers the vast impunity of the superior authorities, with cold blood and lightning, fights against children whose motives are beneficial. The financing of a child's home has been deliberately discontinued. It is not possible for staff members to work. These brutal, calculated actions lead to children who are orphans, children with disabilities being deprived of food, light and warmth. And staff members who have not been paid their wages have been forced to look for sponsors in order not only to receive decent attention but also to receive a decent level of education. In these circumstances, they are pressured and weededed, resulting in the collective’s declaration of hunger and its legitimate demands. These attacks are leading to the destruction of a child's house with its many years of tradition, but this children's home is now a modern educational and rehabilitation centre called Teremek. I appeal to the President, to his superiors: what moral right he has when he speaks of the protection of children, at the same time with the hands of his heads of administration, fights against children. I am addressing the President of Ukraine: consider the Head of the Hersonian Authority, Mr. Selenkov! I strongly insist that the head of the district administration assess his actions and not carry out gang orders to destroy a child's house and clear the land of children.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u23	Instead of Sergey Pavlunka will speak Tereshuk Sergey Mikolayovich, please. The next night will be a performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u24	Sergei Tereshuk “Block of Lithuania”. Last week, it was planned, and the national deputies worked in the districts. I was able to have a low level of meetings with veterans to enter and work, teachers, doctors, and managers. In places, when you look at people in the eye, it is, of course, painful for how hard they live, how humiliated they are and bitterly deceived by those who promised before the elections “the golden mountains”, “the earthly paradise”, and at the first stage “the manna of the heavens”. Our electorates are deeply outraged by the political differences that “fall to pieces” of Ukraine, which has no joint action by the President and the government, which has no real steps towards overcoming the systemic crisis that has gripped the country. Our electorates, honourable national deputies, hope that we will unite our efforts to get the country out of the crisis, to take action, to solve the problems that concern people. Today's problem is more than enough, we need to correct the mistakes made this week in the laws on transport, local taxes and congregations, agriculture, notariat, on the turn of the amendment to the law on banking and banking. Today, what happens in banks can't help but bother people, it's happened that a number of commercial banks are even in charge of their own judgment, one of the veterans told me that at January's current pension, he got in pieces six times every six in a row. This is a direct abuse of those who have been in the grip of war for many, many years have worked hard. Many problems today and in the agrarian complex should be stopped at the problem of renting state reserves and reserves. In its time, the Supreme Council amended the Land Code, according to which the right to rent the land in question comes solely as a result of auctions in accordance with the law. But there is no law, and the position developed by the Cabinet of Ministers has been annulled twice by the President. Both the Constitutional Court and the auctions are to be conducted by appropriate organizations licensed to do so, and the issue is not settled today. So it turns out that companies and farmers can't rent state reserves and reserves when we don't know what other sources we can use to fill local budgets. Last year alone, 25,000 acres [25,000 ha] of land were not contracted. What if they're still unexploded?? Wells, neglected dotted areas, are gaining huge amounts of land. The outcome of this deaf pile is that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is to introduce the draft Law on Change to the Earth Code, envisioning the use of auctions on leases of these lands only in cases where there are two or more applicants for rent. It's a matter of time. I am addressing both the State Commission and my fellow MPs to correct this mistake that is holding back work on earth today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u25	National Deputy Evening, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u26	Anna Herman, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u27	Hanna Herman, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u28	Dear colleagues, we will not now ask each other whether there is a parliamentary coalition, because we know it is gone, but there is a parliament in Ukraine. And there are many honest and intelligent people in this Parliament who make the decisions that Ukraine needs. And today's Head of Parliament has greatly enhanced the prestige of the legislative branch of power, and you and I will continue to promote that prestige. That is why we will not allow nor the President nor the Prime Minister to dictate to us what laws we should adopt here. Because I'm sure there's no one in this room who will support those promises, the IMF's data that today will increase the retirement rate for people by 6 months each year. This means that those who have retired for another six months will not be able to receive it. In a year, they will be added another six months. And so until the end of the crisis. We will not let this happen, nor will we allow lawlessness to prevail in Ukraine, for the Ukrainian Parliament is becoming the center of protecting man from lawlessness and from the lawlessness created by the authorities themselves. Nor will we allow the poorest veterans of work to be eliminated, the poor people who are still struggling to make ends meet. And no one will dictate this because the Ukrainian Parliament is working and Parliament is working quite effectively. We will not allow the simplified tax system to be eliminated by small and medium-sized businesses. And there's no promise from the Prime Minister and the President of the IMF here. And I'm convinced that each of us here advocates the interests of ordinary people and middle and small businesses. The other one. Yesterday or the day before, we cut back on our salaries and salaries for all officials in Ukraine twice. We saved 60 million dollars. But that's very little, dear colleagues. The Party of Regions has proposed to cut not only wages twice, but all costs to the Cabinet of Ministers, the Secretary of the President, and the Supreme Council. And that means we would have saved 2 billion dollars. This is enough money to repay debts to children of war. And we owe that debt back. So I propose that I go back to the issue of reducing expenses to the Supreme Council, the Secretary of the President and the Cabinet of Ministers, and cut not only wages, but all expenses on these institutions and on every official in Ukraine, using this money to repay debts to children of war. Dear colleagues, I urge all to work as we did together yesterday, not by dividing ourselves into factions, but by dividing ourselves into honest and true and wise people. And let's adopt these laws that society needs.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u29	Give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u30	And let's turn Parliament into a center for the protection of people, of individuals and of the entire Ukrainian people against the lawlessness of power.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u31	Dear National Deputies! May I have your attention, please? The statement has been completed. With regard to the proposals made in the statements made by the National Deputies, I ask the Secretariat to prepare the necessary assignments to ensure that these orders are directed to the execution of our committees, including our committees. Dear colleagues! In addition, a number of suggestions were made, and more specifically one, to be determined by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Here was a suggestion to listen to information provided by the head of the Security Service or by someone who performs his duties under the present conditions. Consider, too, the Bills today, 3596 and 3596-1, which regulate the discharge of the duties of the Head of the Security Service. Since, honourable colleagues, since these bills are in the order of the day of our session but not on schedule, I will put this proposal to the vote so that the session room can be identified. The proposal is to invite a representative, a more precise duty of the Ukrainian Security Service or a person performing his duties, and to listen to the information. In which procedure, the appropriate committee will make us an offer. At the same time, after hearing the information, add these two bills to the agenda and decide on their decision. I'm putting this motion to a vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] What's wrong? Change the vote, please. Change the vote. Head of the Regulatory Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u32	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, it may be more logical for us to divide the procedure. One case was a certain event. We invite leaders to explain what has happened. And the second case is a vote on draft decisions that are suddenly put into the Chamber. Our faction of the Party of the Regions will support the invitation to the Management Hall to explain the incident that took place yesterday at Customs. But we are not ready to immediately assess and change the legislative field because of a precedent. They would therefore request the separation of the voting by invitation and by order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u33	Ivan Kirilenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u34	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Thank you, Mr. Head, for heeding our offer. And so we would like to thank the hall, which has responded in an understanding manner, and I think it will support the vote on the invitation of the respective leaders who have given permission to do such a colossal resonance today. We're not talking about making a decision about hearing information, we're talking about draft laws that have long been considered and are in the hall. We simply ask them to move to today so that we can listen to them and make decisions. Because it's going to continue this vachanalia, which unfortunately is happening today. The language for the bills discussed by the profiling committees can be considered today. We're just approaching them on a daily basis for today. We're not making any decisions yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u35	Thank you. At the same time, dear colleagues, I will put a motion to the vote separately. First. To invite the executive responsibility of the Ukrainian Security Service or of the one who serves it to listen to the information that our fellow national MP, Oliynik, spoke about. I'm voting on this proposal. Please vote. [[10:42:15]] For 372 Decision taken. I ask the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to invite a representative of the SBA to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And our profile committee would you like to prepare a procedure for this matter. Please, somebody give it to me. Mikhailo Chechetov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u36	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, the question of principle, not of a clerical nature, but of the acting responsibilities of Mr. Látvajchenko, is to stand on this rostrum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u37	Dear colleagues, I agree with you absolutely, but I had the previous information that the assignee was in charge. Therefore, I did not accidentally say either the performing duty or the performing of the duties in the absence. But I would ask that we now find out. I'll ask Mikola Volodymyrovich Tomenka to deal with this problem. And the second. Ladies and gentlemen, here's a proposal to move to the present day to consider Bills 3596 and 3596-1. I'm also putting this proposal to the vote. Please vote. [[10:43:55]] For 212 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 0, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko” – 151, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” – 15, Communist faction – 27, “Clocus of Lithuania” – 19. Once again, the decision is not made. Of all the other suggestions made by the deputies in my speeches, I ask that you prepare immediate appropriate assignments. Now, dear fellows. An application was immediately made for a recess. But maybe then let's think about it this way: you're going to talk about what you're going to do so you don't want to take a break. The BUT faction and the ‘Lithuania Block’. Can you be the one to speak? Huh? Please, Andrew Cosemiakin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u38	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, I would like everything to go according to procedure, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Now we've made two factions' proposals to take a break, as our colleagues did last week at the sessional, the Party of Regions. We would like this serious, we think, a problem, a problem that has arisen not tonight, but a problem that has arisen a long time ago, but also on the council of the coalition, and with faction leaders, and to decide on these bills, because if we don't consider these bills today and give a signal to the President and the Security Service of Ukraine that the Supreme Council is in charge of these processes and controls the activities of the Special Services in Ukraine of the law enforcement agencies, it will continue to deepen. So I insist, our faction, that you take a break.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u39	Thank you. Dear colleagues, just so I don't get out of the constructive river, I'll remind you once again what this is all about. These are bills sponsored by national deputy Yuri Karmazin, as well as by national deputy Olijnik and a group of deputies. They apply to the arrangements for the direction of the Security and Duty Service in the absence of a long-term candidature or a decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So let's do it this way, and sooner or later we're going to be looking at this bill, let's look at it. Not today, that's how we'll see tomorrow. That's why I'm gonna put it. Well, we have to keep working, make a number of decisions. So I'm going to put to the vote a return to the question of putting Bills 3596 and 3596-1 on schedule for today. Please vote. It's about. Just to consider these bills in order of the day and all! [[10:47:32]] For 214 The decision is not taken. Before we announce the recess, I'm going to put a motion on the vote for the Supreme Council of Ukraine to work today after a recess until 15 hours before the committee meeting and without a break at 12 o'clock. Vote please, Your Honor. Vote please! You don't vote, that's what's gonna happen. [[10:48:07]] For 180. The decision is not taken. And the last suggestion is that we look at the bills that go into the first reading of the simplified procedure. Please vote. Please vote. [[10:48:32]] For 186 Decision taken. Please tell me, do we need to gather the Conciliation Council or do you want to consult separately? A break of up to 11 hours is announced for 20 minutes at the request of two factions. Faction leaders, please meet in the office of the Chief of Staff of the Supreme Council. Break until 11 o'clock, 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u40	so that we can continue our work. Dear colleagues, let me inform you about the summary of the meeting of the Conciliation Council of Ukraine. We agreed that as soon as the head of the Security Service comes to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine will hear information on the issue raised by the national deputy of Olijanik. The following is suggested: 5 minutes of information, 15 minutes of questions and answers and statements from factions — up to 3 minutes. So let's look at this for 35 to 40 minutes and keep working on the schedule set for today without taking a break at 12 hours, which we've already used, that's the first. The other one. Tomorrow, consider the relevant bill and make a decision. If they are offered and considered by the committees on how to react to hearing information. The proposal was that an appropriate draft order would be drawn up with a mandate from the Attorney General's Office, or with a proposal from the Attorney General's Office to examine the facts. These were spoken of by national deputies and created a temporary commission of inquiry. When all of this is done, as discussed by the Committee by our regulations, the Supreme Council of Ukraine will decide tomorrow on the decision. These are the results I informed you about. And now we have every reason to start our work. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is being tabled. [[on the delimitation of the functions and powers of the Kiev City Head and Head of the Kiev City Public Administration]] The rapporteur is the national deputy of Ukraine, Mikola Vasilovich Kravchenko. The narrator will be Troidk Mikola Fedorovich. In summary, we're all looking at drafts.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u41	Dear colleagues, the draft Law on the Delimitation of Functions and Powers of the Kiev City Head and Head of the City Public Administration is being introduced. The fact that the law on... the Constitution returns requires that the structure of power in the city of Kiev be provided for by a separate law. Such a law was passed on January 15, 1999, entitled “On the capital city of Ukraine, the hero city of Kiev”. The essence of my bill is to amend this law and to distinguish the functions and powers of the Kiev City Head and the Head of the City State Administration. I don't have to talk about the reasons why this is happening today. One of the main reasons is that excessive concentration of power has had a negative impact on the situation in our capital. During the consideration of this bill, both the Scientific and Expert Office and the Committee made, I believe, a correct observation on some legal points in this law. I fully recognize them as both the People's Deputy of Bodnar and the People's Deputy of Kulikov and other people's deputies, who, in principle, write this bill legally and correctly. I would like to draw attention to the next moment. To date, the problem of the city of Kiev can only be solved through the adoption of this law. He has no right today even the President to release him from his post.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u42	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u43	He will address the court and be reinstated by the court. I would therefore ask, regardless of my political views, on first reading, to enact this law, then to bring Bodnar and other people's deputies into the stage of second reading and to enact a normal, balanced law. And I don't think there will be any political forces here that will allow the divide that is being created in Kiev to continue. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u44	Thank you, Mikolo Vasilovich! The co - report invites the head of the committee’s subcommittee on local self - government, the Committee on State Building, and the local government of Mikola Fedorovich Traiduk. Please, Mikolo Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u45	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues present! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government at its meeting, held on February 11, 2009, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Laws of Ukraine, introduced by the Ukrainian National Deputy Krawchenk. The committee determines that the bill provides for amendments to articles 13 and 16 of the Ukrainian Law on the Capital of Ukraine, the City of Kiev, and article 8 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Government Administrations. The bill provides for the removal of the Kiev City Head by the Ukrainian Law “On the Capital of Ukraine - the City of Kiev” of the duties of the Head of the Kiev City State Administration, the designation of the post of Head of the Kiev City State Administration and the modification of the existing order of appointment and the release of the first Deputy and Deputy Head of the Kiev City State Administration. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine believes that the first reading of the bill calls for the return of the subject of the right of legislative initiative to work as proposed in the bill is contrary to the second part of article 141 and article 118, part 3, of the Constitution of Ukraine. The Committees of the Supreme Council of Legal Policy and Budget Policy also have significant points to make to the bill. The Committee agreed with the conclusions and observations and recommended to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian Law amending certain laws of Ukraine, introduced by the National Deputy of Ukraine Kravchenk, to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further work. [[on the delimitation of the functions and powers of the Kiev City Head and Head of the Kiev City Public Administration]] Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u46	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Ladies and gentlemen, if you'd like to participate in this bill. Yes, National Deputy Kulikov, please. Kirilo Kulikov. Turn on Cyril, yeah, it works.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u47	Kirilo Kulikov, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense". I want to say that this is my personal opinion, because the faction as a whole does not support this bill. But we are the Self-Defense Group, insisting on the adoption of this bill as conceptually important as a bill that allows for the delimitation of the legislative and executive powers in Kiev. I know this bill needs a lot of work, but this concept has to be adopted. There is no government official who can mix positions with both legislative and executive authorities. And what is happening in Kiev today is because the government is uncontrollable, not the mayor, but the king. So I ask my colleagues to think and support this bill. And I'd like to say a few words to Mr. Catherinechuck.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u48	Dear colleagues, come on, you'll be performing. You don't have to break the Rules. Please. I'm asking that there be no storms. National Deputy Philippeenko, please “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u49	Please pass the word to Valery Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u50	Valerius Pisarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u51	Dear fellow citizens! Of course, the idea is very interesting and, unfortunately, it meets the challenges of time today, because, in fact, the concept that was set up for us in the capital city of Kiev, it is now actually being parasited by a bunch of people who are in power in Kiev, actually usurped power. And the lack of response to this control by both the President and the Supreme Council has only just now joined in, and this leads to legislative initiatives taking place. Is it positive? There must be a time for this. Is it meaningful to Kiev for the future? We can discuss the matter further. Moreover, this bill is imperfect in legal technology. And I have, for example, a warning that we can get him to read second so that he can become a full-fledged bill that changes the concept of governance in Kiev at all. Today, of course, we find that Mayor Cherniwiecki is neither the mayor nor the head of the Kyiv City Administration, because he is led by a bunch of people who are pretty quickly embezzling municipal property. But to this day this bill does not, unfortunately, solve all the problems of Kiev. And we still need to go with you to conceptually determine which authority Kiev needs and who will control it. It's optimal for us to ensure effective control by the Cabinet of Ministers, by the Supreme Council, and by the side.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u52	Mikhailo Chechetov instead of the people's representative of Grissak. Then Oleg Zarubinsky will perform.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u53	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The bill foresees the removal of the Kiev City Head by the Ukrainian Law on the Capital of Ukraine, the city hero of Kiev, from the duties of the Head of the Kiev City State Administration, the appointment of the Head of the Kiev City Administration and the change of the existing order of appointment and the release of the First Deputy and Deputy Head of the Kiev City State Administration. At the same time, we consider it appropriate to make the following comments to the project. The Constitution of Ukraine provides for the need to define the characteristics of the legal regime for the construction and exercise of power in Kiev. In particular, according to part two of article 118 of the Basic Law of Ukraine, the specificities of the exercise of executive power in Kiev are defined by a separate law of Ukraine. Part two of article 140 of the Constitution of Ukraine provides that a separate law should define the specificities of implementation in the city of Kiev of local self - government. The definition of a separate law of the special status of the city of Kiev is provided for in article 133 of the Constitution of Ukraine. In view of the above, we believe that while the Kyiv City State Administration will be the executive body of the Kiev City Council, it can only be headed by a city’s head, according to constitutional requirements. Thus, the proposed changes run counter to section 2 of article 141 of the Basic Law of Ukraine — the Constitution of Ukraine — under the conditions of maintaining the current system of power in Kiev. In this regard, the Party of the Regions proposes, in view of the fact that the concept of the law is contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine, that law should be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u54	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u55	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The motivation of the author, the subject of the legislative initiative, on the background of what is happening in Kiev, is perfectly understandable. It's from an emotional point of view. But there are a few thesets that can be viewed as axioms and that cannot be refuted. First, according to current legislation, the Kyiv City State Administration is the executive body of the Kyiv City Council. Thesis first. The other one. According to the requirements of article 141 of the Ukrainian Constitution, the city council executive is headed by a city head. Another thesis. The third thesis. By a decision of the Constitutional Court of December 25, 2003, the Kyiv City State Administration is to be headed only by a person elected by the Kiev City Head. [[I'm not going to call that a decision, or something like that.]] This is a fact. He likes it or doesn't like it. This is a fact. And so I would like my colleagues to support the idea of the Lithuanian Block that the situation of the balance of power is even worse than what this authority can do. Then nothing can be done to remedy the situation. And one more important point, I'm addressing the subject of the legislative initiative, and it's not his fault, we're all sinning on it. We call it a bill anyway, and its contents don't match that name. This is about delimiting powers and functions in the name. The text does not really define what the city’s head, what functions, what functions, and what powers the head of the administration should perform. That's why I'm proposing.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u56	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u57	So I really propose to agree with the idea and emotions of the author of the legislative initiative, but the legislative process should be based on pure jurisprudence, not emotion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u58	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. It is evident that the need for such a legislative initiative is due to events that take place in the organization of power in Kiev. We are all witnesses to this disgrace. So it would obviously be the right thing to do, if we accepted this document as a basis, to send it to the committee for consideration. Perhaps it would be a deterrent, a stabilizing factor for the city’s authorities, and then life would show. At the same time, honourable colleagues, in accordance with the Rules, I am putting to the vote the first proposal to adopt as the basis of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine, registration number 2023. [[on the delimitation of the functions and powers of the Kiev City Head and Head of the Kiev City Public Administration]] Please vote. [[11:40:00]] For 202 The decision is not taken. For the faction, please. Region Party – 1, “Timoshenko Yulia Block” – 148, “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense” – 26, Communist faction – 27, “Litvina Block” – 1. The author of the Mikola Kravchenko bill, please, your proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u59	Dear colleagues, I have said in my statement that there are indeed points, the law was written in 2007 and is being considered today and so on. I'd like to ask today that we don't lose the law, that we don't lose the concept, that I vote that we send it back to read again. It's practically a law. We have not been able to technically formulate the introduction of the Bodnar and other people's deputies. I would therefore like to vote in favour of re-reading so that we do not lose the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u60	Dear colleagues, a proposal is made to re-read the draft law, registration number 2023. Please vote. [[11:41:31]] For 229 Decision taken. The draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Election of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils and Rural, Village, Urban Heads is being published. [[on the selection of city heads by majority system of absolute majority]] He's going to report it. Please, Mikola Dmitrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u61	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Ukraine's Act on Elections of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local and Rural, Rural, Urban Heads provides for the election of rural, rural, urban heads according to a major system of relative majority. That is, a candidate is considered to have obtained more than other candidates the number of votes from the number of voters who took part in the vote. Our bill provides for the transition to the majorist system of absolute majority for the election of exclusively urban heads. The chosen city head is considered to be a candidate for the post of city head, who received more than half of the votes cast by the electorate. If none of the candidates have obtained this number of votes, it is proposed that a re-voting be carried out, which in fact means a two-tier selection system for the city’s heads. It is worth noting that the proposals I have made apply exclusively to the selection of city mayors. With regard to the selection of rural and rural heads, the system remains unchanged. The European Party of Ukraine is convinced that the introduction of this bill will increase the responsibility of city heads to the electorate, increase the political dialogue between the mayors, the deputies and the relevant city council, create additional mechanisms for citizens to exercise their electoral rights. Not voting, not supporting this bill, this idea is actually supporting the activity, artistic and unartificial self-activity of exotic measures, such as the Chernobyl example. The request is to support this bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u62	From the Committee of Upper Sergei Petrovich, head of the Committee on State Building and Local Government. Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u63	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government on February 18, 2009, under the authority of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law “On Elections of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils and Rural, Village, Urban Heads”, registered number 2270-3, submitted by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Catherinechuk. [[on the selection of city heads by majority system of absolute majority]] Last plenary week, we were looking at a similar bill, registration number 1060, but it's not exactly the same. In particular, this bill, unlike the previous one, proposes leaving the opportunity for the electorate to vote “against all”, while Bill 1060 proposed to delete them. National deputies of Ukraine to the committee feel that it is appropriate to establish a majority majority majority majority majority majority majority in the election of city heads. Therefore, by a majority of votes, the committee concluded to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine in its first reading of the draft Ukrainian law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Election of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils and Rural, Village Heads, as a basis. [[on the selection of city heads by majority system of absolute majority]] Some of the comments that have been made to the proposed bill by the National Committee on Budget Affairs and the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine can be taken into account in its work and preparations for Parliament's second reading. Relevant draft Decision of the Supreme Council on the adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Election of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils and Rural, Rural, Urban Heads, submitted for your consideration. [[on the selection of city heads by majority system of absolute majority]] The committee is asking for the support of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u64	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the discussion. That's what's going on, on the board, the name of the national MPs, please bring them out. Ruslan Knazievich, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Viachelav Kirilenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u65	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “For Ukraine! ” Dear colleagues, these issues that we're considering are very important, but I don't like, in principle, I think that many of us, we're talking about local self-government only when we need to restrict someone, or strengthen them, or assign them, or remove them. So I don't think it's the right thing to do, because local self-government needs to solve problems much more. I have a few specific questions. We all know that at least 21 billion dollars for the local self-government functions this year is not enough. And we're not doing anything to get the government to make the right changes to the 2009 budget. We don't do that. At the same time, we're doing these bills, which are also important, but they're about power, not about money for people who could use it for the community. Next, we adopted the changes to the budget code last year, which deals with the real estate tax for local communities and the land tax, which also remains in local communities, in the second reading, we do not approve. The same is true of the Law on Local Taxes and the Congregations, which was approved in the first reading, said that we would throw out that dragon’s market tax, but other local taxes and congregations that are needed for people on the ground are not approved in the second reading. The same is true of the law on associations of local governments. And they're in, and it looks like even a few, and we can't get into the agenda. So I have a question about whether we are doing the right thing when we are talking only about personal things and what is going on in Kiev, where we certainly need to change everything, but we are not talking about the authorization of the local communities in general, in principle, because the prime minister promised to speak on an association that all these bills would be considered by the last plenary week, but not considered. Therefore, the “For Ukraine” group insists first of all that these bills be put into the agenda, because they are for people and not for authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u66	Vladimir Bondarenko has the right to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u67	Vladimir Bondarenko, Timoshenko Yuli Block. I find this bill extremely important. Even in the past call, when I worked with the Committee on State Building and Self-Government, I passed two bills concerning the regulation of head-picking problems, rural, rural, urban heads. It was about one bill, where I suggested that the leader of the list of political forces who put out their candidates on the second round vote if this political power took first and second place, then only their leaders would vote and then the measures would be chosen. That was one suggestion. The second was that we would still be able to raise the legitimacy of rural, rural, urban heads. Because we're taking the example of even the Kiev: today the popularally elected mayor was chosen by 12 percent, because less than half of the people came to the vote, and one third voted in favour of the current measure, and he considered himself to be popularly elected. If the system had predicted election by majority, we would have a completely different level of legitimacy, both in the village and anywhere, not just in Kiev. At the same time, what we have today is this result: a measure is being chosen, and the conflict is immediately beginning both among the political forces that either support it or fight it, and there is not enough confidence in the population for a person who is chosen with very low levels of support. So I think that this bill, as introduced by Nicholas Catherinechuk, and I was one of the authors of a bill like that, I deliberately didn't put it into an alternative or in a tight spot, so that all of us, together, who were making proposals to this bill, would support it. At a time when I was introducing it in the past call, one of the current acting deputies, who didn't join the coalition, it's strange why, he was also doing certain tasks at the time. This project is on the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u68	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u69	By allowing his approval. Let's not make this mistake again, and for the next election, let's prepare a quality normal bill. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u70	Thank you. Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u71	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, is proposed to introduce the selection of city heads according to the majority of the majority system. The elected city head will be considered a candidate who has obtained more than half of the votes cast by the electorate. If no candidate has won more than 50 percent of the vote in the first round, the second round of elections is held between the two candidates who have won the largest number of votes. The second round of voting is considered to be the candidate voted on by the majority of voters. The need for the above legislative changes is, according to project initiators, a flaw in the current majority system of the relative majority, which is applied to the elections of rural, rural and urban heads. It is not clear why the project proposes the introduction of a major electoral system of absolute majority only for the election of city heads, while the existing electoral system for rural, rural heads remains unchanged. This differentiation in approaches to the holding of elections in the positions of chief officials of local self - government authorities is unlikely to be justified. Because according to the Constitution of Ukraine, nature and the legal status of rural, rural, and urban positions are generally identical. In this regard, the faction of the Party of the Regions proposes to return the project to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u72	Thank you. Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u73	Dear colleagues, I don't mean to offend any of you, but unfortunately, all the three predecessors who spoke on this bill, I'm going to allow myself to say, none of you have seen him in your eyes. Because you're talking about what's practically not in this bill. You bought the title and bought it at the beginning of this bill, where it's about that the election of the city heads will take place in two rounds. And all over the table, just like it was, there's a bill that we didn't support with you, not just city heads. Please read article 75, article 1. “Organization and re-voting”. Re-voting is appointed by the territorial electoral commission if two heads are put on the town, village, village, and so on. Next article. A secret ballot includes those who have acquired two or more, urban, rural, and rural. So come on, if you're cooking something, prepare it, first of all, seriously. And let those who speak out in support of you read what you are offering them. That's one thing. The other one. There is no doubt that this problem must be solved. But first let's have them count how many billion will be re-voted? In the face of a crisis, should we do so today? If you have to, let's let the government do the math and write that it's for the re-voting, it's going to cost something like that. Once again, the city elections may be worth going back to, but only to the city. Maybe it's just the district centers to keep it simple, because there's a city where 5,000 or 10 lives, and a millionaire city, you probably need a different legitimacy of power. So I suggest, let's really get him back to work and make a bill for the cities of district centers, the city of Kiev and the city.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u74	Give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u75	To do what we do now is, first of all, it's all mixed up. That's why we need to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u76	Thank you. Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u77	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the entire discussion that took place shows that the idea is generally understood by everyone. I mean, everyone who is set up to believe that democracy is the power of the people understands that power can be given by most people. Including the majority of voters: 7 percent, 9 percent, and even 15 percent of the entire community do not legitimize authority. And so the city head is not a person supported by the majority of the population, and that's the basic thing. But since the discussion has really unfolded and there are serious suggestions, perhaps we could do it in the first reading, or on the basis of acceptance, and then work well. And in this regard, I would like to say that the question is seriously raised by the standard that is proposed to reduce the hour, or the period for voter voting. Don't you see why that is? On the contrary, the more people are able to do so, one comes in the morning, one in the evening, the more people will be able to vote so that it does not “get through” the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u78	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. Clearly, there is a problem. We need to increase the status of the city's head, beyond how you know that many cities today are facing opposition between the city's head and the city council. If he's chosen by a large number of people who live in one city or another, he'll be more legitimate, he'll have more opportunities to speak out of the position of not political, not party, but from the public's point of view of the interests of which he represents. With regard to the proposals made by our colleague, Viacheslav Kirilenka, I would like to say that during the days of the advisory council on local self-government, the issues related to the Association Act, the Local Tax Law and the Congregations, the 57th article of the State Budget, the Basic Law, the Budget Act, the new edition of the Budget Code. We discussed them, we got expert opinions from local government officials, and we agreed that the committees were working with them to bring them up to date on March 19th for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Clearly, the point is that our committees should work more actively and responsibly. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal of the Committee on Adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Election of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils and Rural, Rural, Urban Heads. [[on the selection of city heads by majority system of absolute majority]] Please vote. [[11:59:28]] For 218. The decision is not taken. There was a second proposal for rereading the first reading. I'm making this offer, what, huh? Dear colleagues, I mean, it's the law that hasn't been considered, other laws have been considered, maybe they match the content in the main part, but it's another law. That's why the proposal was made by the leaders, the factions, and I'm putting this proposal to a vote, right, Mikola Dmitrovich? On re-reading the draft law, registration number 2270-3. Please vote. [[12:00:28]] For the 220. The decision is not taken. So it's a bill. The factions? Please. Region Party – 1, Yulia Timoshenko Block – 152, Our Ukraine-Narodna Self-Defense – 47, Communists – 0, "Block of Lithuania" – 20. Thus, the bill is rejected. Announcing the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine, registration number 1417. [[on the harmonization with valid educational laws in the area of discharge and appointment of heads of educational institutions]] Reporter - Sergey Podgorny, Ukrainian national deputy. Deputy Head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self - Rule, Yuri Klukkowski, will be the focal point. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u79	Dear colleagues, for over a year this bill has been waiting for its turn. The purpose of the bill is to harmonize the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine with the valid educational laws in part of the assignment and to release the leaders of pre-school and extra-school educational institutions to ensure the stable functioning of these institutions and to prevent conflict situations. Today, on the basis of article 43, paragraph 20, of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine, in plenary meetings of the district or district council, the deputies began to decide on the question of the appointment and release of heads of educational institutions as objects of common property of the territorial communities of villages, villages, cities, districts in cities in the administrations of district and district councils, based on individual cases of political relevance rather than the professional level of candidates for the post. In addition, the appointment of pre-school, general education and extra-school directors is in conflict with article 20, paragraph 4, of the Education Act, article 26, paragraph 2, of the Ukrainian Law “On secondary education”, article 19, paragraph 2, of the Ukrainian Law “On pre-school education”, article 23 of the Ukrainian Law “On pre-school education”. [[on the regulation of the labour relations of the education system]] Disagreement between these laws creates some tension and conflict. In order to make it impossible, contrary to educational laws, to make decisions regarding the appointment of directors of the listed educational institutions at a plenary meeting of the district or district council of deputies, which are often educationally or professionally far from the specificities of the educational sector, it is proposed to add to article 43, paragraph 20, of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine: “. Similar changes have already been made to article 42, paragraph 10, of the current Law on Local Self - Rule in Ukraine, regarding the powers of rural, rural, urban head.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u80	Finish up Sergei Petrovich. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u81	Appointing and dismissing directors of enterprises, institutions, and organizations belonging to municipal property. The implementation of the bill after its adoption does not require changes to other laws than does not require additional expenditure from the State Budget. Together with this, the adoption of this law will ensure consistency of existing legislation, contribute to the more stable work of preschool, general education, and extra-school institutions. The Ministry of Education and Science, with which appropriate consultations have been conducted, supports the adoption of the bill. The bill is also supported by a professional committee on education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u82	Please sit down. According to the account, Yuri Bogdanovich Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u83	Dear colleagues! The bill proposed to you is not even aimed at removing the Colosseum. Because this colossal is not in the legislation today, but it is in order to clarify the wording, since there is a practical need. There is a trend towards the appointment of heads of educational institutions at plenary sessions of local self - government bodies. This is contrary to the Education Act, the Secondary Education Act, the Higher Education Act. Sadly, however, these conflicts occur. True, the bill you're proposing today, our committee has been considering, tomorrow is exactly the year, March 5, 2008. Too bad he's been here so long. Nevertheless, we hope that he will be supported today. This bill, note the drafters of the bill, is the head of the Committee on Education and the round of the subcommittee on local self-government. And that means that there is a common position here, both for education and for representatives from our committee. This bill is unanimously supported by the Committee on Education and so is our committee. And we suggest we take it as a base. If there are problems in the wording, we are ready to work on the second reading. Although my personal point of view is that he is fully prepared for acceptance as a whole. However, the committee recommends that we accept it in the first reading. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u84	Thank you. Please sign up for the discussion. National Deputy Karpuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u85	Vladimir Karpuk, MP “For Ukraine!” In fact, there is a very important problem here, because after the elections, after the local elections, and the educated especially in small population areas, the school’s principals, the leaders are always involved in a political struggle under the pressure of some political forces or others. And after the election, every single person can be released only because they've supported one candidate or another. So the story itself, the novelty itself, which is explained in this law, is relevant and, indeed, is agreed upon both by the Committee on Science and Education and by the Committee on Local Self-Government. So we will support him in our first reading. But since there is a need for refinement in the formulation, it is suggested that it be accepted as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u86	Lolo Vladimir Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u87	Ladies and gentlemen, it has been made clear why this legislative inadequacy that creates conflict situations in any region of our country. And I would just like to tell all the deputies, when we were on the committee, we had requests from all the regions and deputies of all the factions, all the factions that show that one paragraph of the law is in conflict with three educational laws, immediately three laws. I don't think we need conflict situations. I don't think we need to have that kind of thing where at a circuit board session, they can just put in a voice that has no education or experience, like schools or kindergarten. We have leaders today who are appointed without the practical recommendations of the educational community itself. So there's only one thing I want to pay attention to, my fellow officials, on our committee, are the representatives of the six political forces. Everyone has made a complete statement, representing the point of view of the regions, for that. that this law may be passed not only on a foundation but also on a whole. I convey the view of the members of the Committee on Science and Education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u88	Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u89	Dear colleagues, especially I am addressing those who are sitting on the local self-governance committee and you, Alexander Aleksandrovich, have recently had a rather serious meeting in the walls of the Supreme Council, with the participation of the Chief of the Supreme Council, Prime Minister. A similar meeting was held earlier in the Cabinet of Ministers, where all in one voice shouted that they were supporting local self - government. I can understand the Education Committee, he's doing the right thing, but if your committee, Alexander Alexander, unanimously voted in favour. In order to take away these powers from the local authorities, sin is your price. You can imagine who to give it to. Report to the district authorities about the district administration of education. Who shapes them, appoints them? Areas, district government. Now our colleague has allowed himself to say that in local self - government, local councils meet, say, deputies with very low education, they can't figure out who to appoint. We're very wise here. They're not wise there, and we're wise with you that we take away from them and those pins of authority that we have. I don't understand how smart it is to adopt such bills. Surrender yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u90	Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u91	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. I don't want to start with someone disrespecting the district council. Obviously there are people who are not at least as stupid as they are here. It's completely different. And that's obviously what this bill means. Experts are to be appointed experts. If we understand that, if we want to be an ideologist, it's obvious that warships and militant dilettarianism will not be a major threat to our progress or to any hypothetical future progress. So I signed up against knowingly because it was suggested that I accept the bill as a whole. It seems to me that there are certain legal colleges here, at least in connection with both pedagogical and preschool institutions and extra - school institutions, which are the property of communities. That is why local councils should have an impact, including on human resources policies. But I think the second reading is going to have to polish these moments and still, if you put both those things on a scale, and that discussion, those arguments that were justly cited, you have to put the experts at the head of the schools and out-of-school institutions first, not those people who reflect one or the other political interest, and not those people whose assignment depends on who the majority of them are happy and who they put there. I'm a professional, especially in education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u92	Thank you. The discussion is over. I am voting on the adoption of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine. [[No. 1417]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:12:48]] For 219 The decision is not taken. The factions? Please. Region Party – 0, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko” – 144, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” – 56, Communists – 0, “Clocus of Lithuania” – 19. The suggestion is to re-read it. I put to the vote the proposal of the national deputy of Klukkowski Jury Bogdanović to send this bill for re-reading, the draft law amending local self-government, the re-reading of the first reading. [[1417]] [[12:13:39]] For 227 Decision taken. The bill is sent for re-reading. A draft Act amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on the elimination of artificial barriers to the activities of law enforcement agencies]] Registration number 1337. Victor Dmitrovich Schwetz reports. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u93	Victor Schwetz, Timoshenko Street. Dear Lord Chairman! Dear National Deputies! On 14 December 2006, the Supreme Council of Ukraine passed the Ukraine Act amending the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code, No. 462, which provides for an indictment against the court of a criminal case and an order for the court to hear a complaint of a violation of such a case. This law was no exaggeration in the history of the domestic criminal process. Potential suspects and defendants have been given an effective protection mechanism against the abuse of law enforcement. Sadly, though, some standards of new article 236 apply. 8 The Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code has been used for the purpose of unwarranted delaying and blocking criminal investigations. In recent times, this trend has developed. It has been found that over the course of two years, the new rules of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code have failed and that their ambiguity may lead to violations of the Ukrainian Constitution and the laws of Ukraine regarding the functioning of the judiciary and the maintenance of the State's indictment by the prosecutor. Also at risk is the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine on the limits of the review of the criminal case and the independence of judges. I'm not giving you all the details right now, just one example. Paragraph 4 of the first article 206 and part 4 of article 236-8.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u94	Victor Dmitrovitch, please finish your final sentence.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u95	provide for the possibility of the judge being stopped from investigating actions, which is a direct intervention of the court in the activities of the investigating authorities, i.e. a non-judicial function. I, your honor, am asking you to support this bill, because today's criminal and procedural code in this section, I'm referring to the charges of criminal delinquency proceedings, in fact, blocking the work of the pretrial investigation authorities. Therefore, making changes to this law is an urgent need.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u96	Thank you. The report, please, Musik Volodymyr Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u97	The Honourable Chairman, the Honorable Colleagues, are the National Deputies of Ukraine. Indeed, the Ukrainian Parliament, by law of December 14, 2006, allowed the rulings of the investigating authorities to be brought against a criminal offence. The Constitutional Court of Ukraine has set limits on the verification of such orders. The current legislation contains three major flaws contained in articles 206, 237 and 238. That is, the law in force allows for an indictment of a criminal offence at any stage of the pretrial investigation. Thus, the completion of the investigation, and the law also allows for the prosecution of a violation order. The second moment, one of the most important, is that the law is valid, allows the court to stop investigating. This function is not for justice, but secondly, there is no legal basis for such a stop, which gives rise to abuses in this area. And third, when the case is considered, in case of failure to provide the investigators with the material that was the basis for the case, the judge may consider the case without a case. The authors of the law give three hours to transfer matters and then consider the matter. The law was first passed by Hennadi Hennadiovich Moskal, who worked on the committee, and the committee asked for support as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u98	Thank you, Vladimir Romanovich, sit down, please. Discuss, log in. People's MP Verni Dubov, please. Ivan Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u99	Dear Chief, distinguished colleagues! On this point, I was speaking out of the rostrum that we, the deputies, had actually washed up at the time of December 2006 when we passed the Law on Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Code to give the judges the right to cancel the criminal proceedings. Indeed, the right of Moses, who has spoken here and said that this is not the function of the judiciary and unfortunately not only, as the reporter said, that such actions may lead to violations of the rights and freedoms and other violations of the Constitution, they have already in many cases led to these violations, in many cases we know, I have reported from the rostrum that are merely paralysing the investigation, and there are cases even four times the courts cancel, from their point of view, illegal orders for violations of cases, and, despite the fact that the higher-ranking courts cancel these illegal rulings of the courts, they once again take the same rulings, and it seems that there are no administration of such judges. I think that there's the "independence" of the judges, in the paws, in their very negative manifestations, and it's reflected in the application of these changes to the law that we have adopted. I'll make it clear that this law won't solve the issue we want. I am sure that one day we will come to the realization that the right of the courts to revoke such orders should be lifted. But as an intermediate option, I think the law should be adopted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u100	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Filipenko Volodymyr Pilipovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u101	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the BUT faction wants to point out that this bill, which we are now proposing to vote on, is actually going to change the existing model in the criminal process, which provides for the abolition of the criminal offence order. Today we can all see that the existing model, which is now being used by the courts on the basis of a valid version of the Criminal Procedure Code, is legal, corresponds to those realities and that now individual MPs are trying to twist the existing situation to the side of the prosecutor's side, probably not honoring all of us. Since it is not possible to stop the criminal investigation, if the court considers a decision to annul it, it will in fact lead to the fact that the rights of the person seeking redress will continue to be violated. And that's all we can see right now when individual law enforcement agencies that are not doing their job at all, especially the Ukrainian Security Service, the same law that we're going to accept for God's sake will be used so long as the decision on a criminal offence is over, the person will already be sitting in a detention facility and will be kicked out of all the necessary demonstrations that will require of him. So clearly the existing model that is now, is completely acceptable to today's realities and there's no need to go back that way, in fact, it's criminal and procedural legislation. That is why we will not support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u102	Thank you. The discussion is over. I am voting on the adoption of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code. [[Registration number 1337]] I'd like to make a statement. [[12:23:42]] For-67 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. It is announced before the review of the Draft Law amending the Ukrainian Act "On the Organization of the Forming and around of Credit History". Registration number 2316. Report – Justice Minister Oneichuk Mikola Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u103	Dear Chief! Dear National Deputies! The content of the draft law, which has just been declared very simple, is to transfer a non-specific function to the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine for regulating the activities of credit history bureaus to a special authorized executive body, particularly to a government commission for regulating financial services markets. This is quite rare when a government authority, in particular the Ministry, refuses the right to license activities of certain entities and to have the appropriate resources of authority in this area. At the same time, for the sake of legal order and organizational cleanliness, the government and the Ministry of Justice make such a proposal. To your knowledge, there are 5 credit bureaus in the country today licensed by the Ministry of Justice. And the bureau uses 103 national commercial banks. And 63 insurance companies, 63 credit unions, 8 insurance companies, etc. In general, there are about 10 million credit stories in the country. And it's a fairly large data bank that allows both the interests of borrowers and the interests of those who carry out the lending operation. This bill is supported by the General Legal Authority, the Science and Export Authority, he proposes to approve it as a basis. In view of its squeamishness, clarity and clarity, I also ask to vote on this bill today as a basis and as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u104	Thank you, Mikola Vasilovich. A report from the committee, Stanislaw Mikhailovich Arzewitin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u105	Dear colleagues! The Committee on Finance and Banking considered a bill tabled by the Cabinet of Ministers, which actually says that it should be transferred from the Cabinet of Ministers to the State Commission on the regulation of financial services markets. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office also shares our position and also confirms that today the Ministry of Justice does not have a function to regulate the activities of the Bureau of Credit History and also supports the proposal to transfer this function to the State Commission on Financial Market Regulation. So our committee is proposing to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a bill to be adopted as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u106	Is there a need to discuss? Are there speakers? None. I am voting on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Organization, Formation and around of Credit History. Registration No. 2316. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:27:51]] For 367 Decision taken. Are there any suggestions, objections to putting to the vote as a whole, as recommended by the profiling committee? No objections? I would like to vote on the adoption of the draft Law amending the Law on the Organization, Formation and around of Credit History. Registration No. 2316. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:28:30]] For 370. Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u107	Dear colleagues, as we agreed, let us now hear the information of the Acting Head of Security, Valery Horoshkovsky, and then continue our work so as not to hold a man, he has arrived at the Supreme Council of Ukraine and is ready to provide complete information to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We agreed on such a regulation that five minutes for information, 15 minutes for question-answers and statements from factions, if that wish is within three minutes. So in general, it's 15 minutes plus 20 minus 35 minutes. Can we consider the questions? All right, then, I invite the Acting Head of the Security Service, Valery Horoshkovsky, to the rostrum. Come on, dear fellows, I just had a conversation. Please go to the rostrum. Dear colleagues, I ask you calmly, tolerantly and as is the case with the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u108	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, as I understand it, the subject on which the management of the SAA has been invited to report today is the detention of a customs officer involved in illegal, in our view, gas dispersion. And I want to say that, frankly, we're a little surprised by this position of the Supreme Council. Why? Because we're keeping the tax collector on. The foundation, it's not some strange fact, unfortunately, that corruption in this structure is deep enough, and therefore, I would just like to say that I would like to translate this discussion a little bit into another plane, which is related to what we think, and this is really, worthy of consideration in this room, we need to talk about the creation and presence of a serious group of officials, including government management, which has done enough illegal work and, I think, this topic really should be considered by the Supreme Council. Now I want to get to the bottom of this.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u109	May I have your attention, Your Honor? May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u110	In fact, it's a matter of fact. On March 2nd, the following branch office of the Bank was charged with the fact that foreign property had been seized, namely, 6 billion natural gas in the amount of 7 billion 500 million dollars, by the abuse of NAC officials “Naftogaz Ukraine” by their service position, particularly largely on the basis of the previous conspiracy of individuals. And we found that twice on January 21st and February 5, a small sum like that for the Ukrainian State, $1 billion of 700 million went daily between Ukraine and Russia for the first time: the purchase of a transit rate, i.e., a paid transit in advance of 1.7 billion dollars. On that same day, because they were probably worried that it might not get stuck here in Ukraine, from a bank controlled by Russian shareholders, it was recalculated, 1.7 billion being recalculated into the territory of the Russian Federation. On February 5, another 1.7 billion is made from the Russian side, as if the purchase of Ukrainian gas, which did not actually exist at the time in the vaults, and on that day again this sum of 1.7 billion from the same bank is returned to the territory of the Russian Federation. I'm asking questions, colleagues, if we want to talk about these facts, I'm willing to discuss them in detail, tell them, show them and, along with the commission of inquiry, with the people's deputies, with other law enforcement agencies, to study these facts in a calm manner. What's being done today, conditionally, and the attempt of some national MPs or political forces to put pressure on our course of investigation, I think it's a famous scheme that I, of course, have seen long enough when we can't solve the issue, let's destroy the entire state mechanism. That's how the Attorney General's Office collapsed in its time, a little later -- the Constitutional Court, probably just got to the BSS. I'd like us to be absolutely calm, yes, professionally discussing this issue, making decisions. We did everything exclusively in the legal field, under the supervision of the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine. So please, your questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u111	Dear colleagues, the information is complete. Please sign up for the question. There's a recording going on. Please put the names of the people's deputies on the board. People's MP, Timoshenko block faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u112	Revoslav Olijnik, "Timoshenko's Yulia Block". Please tell me, Your Honor. Yesterday, or under your direction, you detained a customs officer for the article you are replacing, which is 191 percent of the fifth. In a simple language, it is the acquisition of foreign property. Well, give me a simple answer. According to your logic, what property is the object of this crime, what do you think it was, in your opinion, in the Ukrainian Security Service? Who owns it, who owns it now? And how can the customs officer make the property state, and you tell him that he has it? And then where is he, if he's got it, according to your logic, where is he, the virgins? Did you take it home? Where else did you put it? Maybe on some bills? I mean, it's a simple answer. Whose property was it? What did it become? And how can you do that when 11 billion gas is a customs officer, where did he go if he owned it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u113	Thank you for asking. The answer is short enough. In fact, article 191 of Part Five contains a criminal case. The tax collector is detained under another article of the Criminal Code, which relates to official crime. And on that basis, he is detained. As to the status of this gas. It is absolutely well known that this status was, is and remains, today, a transit gas that sold Gazprom to Russia's RosUkre Energo, starting in 1996. [[B in m in s a l in]] 1997, 1998. [[B in m in s a l in]] I apologize, 2006, 2007, 2008, and thus this gas should be in transit until now. I would like to assure you that the change in the transit regime under the Customs Code, the official instructions of the customs authority, and the Cabinet of Ministers are possible only by the decision of the owner and by the consent of the customs authority. If that was not the case, it was already official crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u114	Sergey Shevchuk, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u115	Please pass the word to Oleg Laszko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u116	Oleg Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u117	Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Valery Ivanovich! Here, here's Easy. Now you're telling us from the Supreme Council's rostrum that we're operating in the legal field under the supervision of the Attorney General's Office. And what legal field does it foresee when you tell from the Supreme Council’s rostrum that a criminal group has been formed under the leadership of the government? Where and by what judgment or judgment is it established that a criminal group led by the government has been formed? That's the first one. The other one. Now you're telling me that the property is "Rosukreenergo". And the tax collector is guilty of giving the property that belongs to the state to the state that the pensioners received pensions, the wage budgeters. And now you're planting this man, and you're blaming the government for that. And the last. Valery Ivanovich, you are not planning to sell your Maybach, which is now worth at least a million dollars, at which you are coming to the government, to the TV station, and to send it, for example, for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u118	The questions are many, and the answer is one. Dear colleagues, if you don't blame each other, that is, you -- me, me -- you, everything will be much calmer. If you speak a professional language. As for my car, my other acquisitions. Colleagues, I've been declaring revenue since 1996. I've never spoken, of course, I'm a poor man. Besides, it probably wouldn't be fair if I was going to the Maybach before, and now I'd start driving on the Flag, right? So a big request, take a look at yourself and tell me exactly how much you are, a distinguished national MP. The second question about what they pay, someone there, they pay pensions and stuff. Unfortunately, there is no pay, and this is the problem of government economic policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u119	Valerius Suškević gives the floor to the National MP Pisarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u120	Valery Ivanovich, I'd like you to understand the reason we recognized you. Yesterday a man was illegally arrested and deprived of his will yesterday. It may be a small thing for you, but yesterday a man found himself behind bars without a legal basis. That's why we called you today. First. The other one. We called you because of the national interests of Ukraine, namely, the acquisition of gas for the needs of the population of Ukraine you put below the need to protect one businessman or company Roskreenergo, and for this you use all the resources and all the security services of Ukraine. You know, it would be honest if you went to the customs office to do business or the "Inter" channel. You went to the Ukrainian Security Service to ensure the interests of Firthash and his company and to work a little bit against Ukraine. That's why we called you. And now the future for you. We'll do everything we can to get both of you out of the Security Services. And in order to rekindle the ministry, to fight against men like you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u121	Dear Mr. Pisarenko, the answer is very simple. We've known you a long time, and we've known you before you became Ukrainian national deputy. I thank you for, of course, having this kind of expression about my attitude towards Ukraine. Check me out, I can argue seriously about who, how much, as helped or hindered this state, yes. Indus is a matter of substance. Legally or illegally, only the court will determine. We have the procedural right to work exactly the way the Ukrainian Security Service has chosen. We have not violated any articles of the Criminal Code and the Criminal Procedure Code in this regard. I'd suggest you put a dot on that. I think you have a lot more meaningful questions about that. And the next one, yes. I'd just like to do it again and again because it's just that the BUT faction is asking a question. My colleagues, remember how many times the Prime Minister said that the best customs officer in Ukraine was Khoroshkovsky Valeriy Ivanovich. And when I went from "Inter" to this customs office, I guess I was very good for you: 42 billion more. The money the customs brought last year was very useful to you, because you could then say that the government's policy was significantly improved. What are you trying to blame me for today, colleagues?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u122	Lilia Grigorovich refers the right to question Paul Žebrovski, the faction "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense", please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u123	Valery Ivanovich, I think because one faction asks, it's a summation of political accounts, unfortunately, no more and no less. Of course, you can be assigned to blame and someone, some businessman, and put all the dogs on it. Perhaps some still deserve it today. But these decisions must be made solely by the court and the investigating authorities. However, today, if we act on such criteria, when the objective justifies the means, we will certainly destroy the system of “State”, the very concept of “State”. And today, under the same court orders, it is not a specific person, not a specific official, but the State of Ukraine. And we're going to be paying court "costs," let's say, from the government pocket, not from the pockets of any officials. I think you're absolutely right about the fact that if there are any questions with the deputies of the Supreme Council, let them create a temporary commission of inquiry, not set up a Sabbath here, define clearly, write down lawyers who will give an evaluation, and on the basis of this, make a decision, not frame a politician.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u124	Thank you very much. I would say more and answer Mr. Lazko, Mr. Pisarenko and everyone else. Fellows, why did we take laws with you? When we talked about the Property Law and assured that all forms of property are equal and protected equally, why are we now saying that there is some property better or worse? Moreover, if we all love Ukraine so much, and if we are saying that we should have Ukraine as a protected state, I ask: Why is it that today the money for Ukrainian gas, the gas of Ukrainian origin, is not being paid from Naftogazu? Why the workers have not received a salary for the third month now. Let's talk about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u125	National Deputy Bondar, faction of the Timoshenko Yulia Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u126	Goodimi, please pass the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u127	Goodima's national MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u128	The honourable reporter, well, unfortunately, doesn't come up with a professional conversation, because you keep emotionally setting us up that you want to have a discussion with us. You're not here for the discussion, you're reporting to the Supreme Council. But I remembered that, speaking at that rostrum two weeks ago, in my speech that I had asked to form as a parliamentary request, I quoted a letter that seemed to be the first document you signed as the first Deputy Security Service in Dubina, the head of NAK Naftogaz, in which you, with threats to the head of the NAK “Naftogaz” government, signed on as the first deputy of the Security Service, belonging to “Rosukrenenergo”, including you proposed to Mr Dubina to ensure the appearance of all employees who were involved in the blurry. To this day, the Supreme Council has responded to my parliamentary request. I didn't get it. What a terminology you've been set up. What does that mean for people who do their own work?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u129	My answer is simple. We actually wrote a letter, and you remember from the beginning we wanted to warn certain officials not to take part in the political order. What you're saying is that there's no political debate, Mr. Goodima, I'll explain why. Because I'm taking part in an exhibition on your part, right? That's why I'm playing the same game you're playing. When there is a political issue, I will answer politically. When there are economic issues, I will answer economically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u130	People's MP Bolura, faction of the Timoshenko Yulia.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u131	I'd like a word with you to pass on to School Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u132	Andrew Schlell.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u133	Thank you. Dear reporter, you understand when we're talking about legal terms, a. legal terminology, you said at the beginning of the Preamble that there's a criminal group in the government and that it's barely led by the heads of government. Please detail and answer. If it's slander, you'll have to answer for it. What if you, when you were in charge of the State Customs Service, didn't know about the activities of this criminal group? Did you share in it too? I just can't understand it. You are now deploring the state's honour from the Supreme Council's rostrum, saying that the government is engaged in criminal matters without any justification. You're talking about the legal detention of a customs officer and you can't say the reason for the detention. Service crime, no one gets arrested at night for a crime of the service. This is also a major violation. So please give specific answers.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u134	So, Mr. Andrey, I just didn't understand what caused you this kind of aggression with regard to me, or the fact that you did what the Ukrainian Security Service did or the fact that I didn't hire a customs deputy in Lviv, which you offered me for the farm work. So let's speak purely in professional language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u135	People's MP Philippeenko, faction of Yulia Tymoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u136	Thank you. Well, first of all, I want to pay attention, you've called us colleagues several times, I'm here, unfortunately, we're not your colleagues, because unlike you, we didn't go to Firthash to get organized, that's the first. Secondly, you said here a few words in your statement, well, what you did, yes, that the failed authorities, the Constitutional Court broke down, the Attorney General's Office broke down. Well, why don't you go to the President's bank and ask him why he broke them with his orders? And at the same time, I also understand that the State Customs Service was broken down for you too. Because in the last year, the budget came down by 42 percent. And now that the new leadership has begun to correct them, you must have begun to arrest the leadership of the State Service by means of vengeance or something. So the clarity, please, to us, what is it? You don't know how to work, now you don't let others?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u137	Mr. Filipenko, read the statistics.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u138	Taras Stackov, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u139	I'm asking you to pass the word to Roman Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u140	Roman Mikhailovich Zvaric, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u141	Mr. Valeria, I'd like to ask you a very professional question. And it goes down to one, to the next. Do you know that it is open to the prosecutor's office to institute criminal proceedings, which are the only ones who have the right to follow up on either the first or the second part of the 191st article of the Criminal Code? And why am I asking questions? Because you're talking about saying that there was a service crime, referring to 191. You have the right to criminalize a criminal offence, but in this case only if criminal proceedings are opened under a material article. As a matter of fact. So answer, please, because if you have a negative answer, unfortunately, I have to say that the Ukrainian Security Service acted against the law, contrary to the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u142	Unfortunately, I would like to inform you that all criminal proceedings have been made, and we are absolutely clear on what the Attorney-General has also been informed and given, the Attorney-General knows about all these cases. We communicate on a daily basis. And we, once again, are tracking our every move and agreeing with the U.S. Attorney General's Office. Your question is about the discovery of a criminal case in the 191st article, and I report that the Ukrainian Security Service has violated the 191st case in fact. [[B in m in s a l in]] As a matter of fact. We have the right to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u143	People's Deputy Olijnik, faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u144	Dear Master, the Acting Head of the Security Service! In your speech today, you have named and used the term. I'm sorry, you took the term “gear”. Today, I want all of us to understand that under the term “capture” there are Ukrainian-Russian State Agreements, under the term “capture” – these are agreements that have been signed between NAK “Naftogaz” Ukraine and “Gazprom” Russia. These are the very agreements that have been the basis for the actions that you are saying today that this is a crime and that this is a service floor. I would like to ask you, I think, a clear and clear question: why are you today as a leader, a really important structure, using all the important influences, doing everything you can to protect the structure that did everything to ensure that the Ukrainian-Russian negotiations that took place at the end of 2008 did not happen, this structure that did everything to make the gas the most expensive for Ukraine. Why are you protecting this structure today, using all the power vests?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u145	Thank you for asking. I want to tell you once again that we are talking exclusively about the legal framework, regardless of what structure, whose structure, and who it belongs to. And when I talk about the collar, what I mean is that it's the respectable people's MP that we have the opportunity not only to use official documentation, but we still have the search and search. And when they become the defendant's sentence, then you and I will get to know them.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u146	Vladimir Bondarenko, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u147	Vladimir Bondarenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. I am concerned about some of the definitions that came out of the mouth of the distinguished Mr. Horoshkowski. The point is that he allowed himself to call our session an “exposition”. Then who's the clown, who's the viewer? I would also like to point out that you are taking the position you are taking today for the most reasonable reasons. All society knows your relationship with those structures, the interests of which you, the President, and the head of your actual service, Balog. Because today the state structure we call the Ukrainian Security Service is governed exclusively by the people of the Secretariat of Pukshini and Balogya. You're protecting their financial interests here, so that's understandable, but take it into your own hands, at least keep your relationship with the Supreme Council within the framework of the norms that exist in society. There's no show here and you're here, sorry, not an actor and we're not viewers. That's why I would ask.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u148	Thank you, Vladimir Dmitrovich. That's a good point. I'm sorry, the only thing I want to say is that sometimes plays are dramatic, without clowns. So in this case, I just want to point out that when you call it a last name, including high-ranking officials of the state, I'm willing to hold back, and I'm asking you to hold back. Let's talk about this on an equal footing, because you're actually being accused of being completely groundless and we have to answer that somehow. We have to answer, of course, not emotionally, peacefully, and in the right direction, and you can make accusations of any course, that's not how it works, we're on equal terms with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u149	Yes, thank you, Valery Ivanovich, time is up.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u150	Thank you, distinguished national MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u151	Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the factions. We agreed that one out of a faction of three minutes. Please register three national deputies. Victor Terrence, Timoshenko's Yulia Block, please. Andrey Portnow is going to do this? Please be prepared by "Our Ukraine", a recorded national MP. Paul of Zebravsky will speak. Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u152	Dear National Deputies! Dear Chief! First. I wanted to inform you that now more than 20 officials unknown in masks and fully armed with machine guns surrounded NAK Naftogaz, a national stock company that owns 11 billion cubic metres of gas. This is the first position. Second position. Tonight, as you know, a private employee of energy customs is detained. This is done with numerous violations of criminal law. Third position. Today, the entire Ukrainian gas has been arrested, and by order of the investigator, he has been fully arrested. So now we can explain to the Ukrainian population where they're going to take this gas? They will probably take him to the Ukrainian Security Service. Fourth position. I have heard here, Your Honor Valery Ivanovich, you have given false information. Article 191 in Part 5 states that a criminal case has been committed against the employee. Fifth position. Dear Valery Ivanovich, do you not personally feel that you have a conflict of interest? Valery Ivanovich, don't talk on the cell phone, for example, I want to talk to you. You wrote in the media that you are officially a partner of Mr. Firthash, you have business interests. Please tell me, do you have a moral right to have such a conflict of interest while at this parliamentary rostrum to have any bearing on the investigation of a case in which Mr. Firtash is specifically an interested person in 11 billion cubic metres of gas? And as a person who has admitted that you have business interests with him, investigate this matter! This is a real disgrace! This is the fifth position. Sixth position. Dear colleagues, I am officially informing you that today I, as Ukrainian national deputy, have appealed to the Attorney General on the grounds that the Ukrainian Security Service has unlawfully received authorization from the Kiev Court of Appeal of Kiev since 3 February this year to listen to my phone conversations: three of my station phones and one mobile phone. On February 3rd, according to the signing of the Chernishenko Head of the Court of Appeal, this has been sanctioned. Last position. Today, the media reported that the Security Service at the Court of Žitomir had been sanctioned and listened to the deputy attorney - general of Ukraine, Kuzmin. That too. His report is posted in the media today, too. All of this will be your responsibility! I want to tell you, we're addressing the immediate involvement in the criminal responsibility of Mr. Nastawaychenk, you, Valeriy Ivanovich Horoshkovsky. We demand the immediate release of those who.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u153	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u154	To free a private man who is under guard and to stop the clownage that is currently taking place in NAQ “Naftogaz Ukraine”. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u155	Paul Zebravsky, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u156	Dear colleagues, I think yelling and yelling at something is not the solution to any problem. First of all, I want to point out that I have no relationship with Mr. Firthash and that God will give me for the rest of my life. That's why I think it's necessary for today if there's a criminal offence in Mr. Firthash's actions, he needs to be prosecuted, investigated and brought to justice. If we start assigning blames to each other today, tomorrow to the third, and then to say it's in the interests of the Ukrainian people, then we'll go a long way with you. In fact, I would like to see a temporary commission of inquiry to deal with these issues and to draw conclusions on the decision taken by the Ukrainian Security Service, if there are wrong, non-legally incorrect decisions, to be punished by those who have made such wrong decisions. As for today in the session room, what is being done today is unfortunately not beautiful, including the Supreme Council, because, excuse me, the purpose justifies the means anywhere in the shadows or in the gates. I remember in 2004, when my opposition against my sister brought three criminal cases against me, I think that today, against the opposition to criminal cases, tomorrow, there is a change of power, and against the opposition of another will be criminal cases. Friends, you need to, you need to stop, you need to put the state in order, you need to act with legal, legally balanced decisions, and then, I'm sorry, because of your political activities, no one will be punished, innocent people will be punished, and no criminal cases will be brought against anyone. Today, unfortunately, it's just a collection of political accounts, today, unfortunately, today is not a professional conversation, I think, the only one who asked questions, a professional question was posed by the cook, everyone else was actually giving political evaluations and, in large accounts, they were just yelling at the person instead of trying to get to the point. Regrettably, today’s information on the responsibilities of the head of the BSS has turned, not into a knowledge of the essence of the problem, but rather to accuse and receive political dividends. One more time, one more time, one more time, one more time, one more time, one more time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u157	Another one of the Gods, please. Jaroslav Suhi, calm down! Jaroslav Suhi is referring the right to speak to Inna of the Divine One. Dear colleagues. I'm asking you to calm down!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u158	Dear colleagues, you can say anything, but there is a Ukrainian Constitution that says that private property rights are just as protected in Ukraine as everyone else. That's the first one. And in any analysis of 11 billion gas, which is now controversial, you have to step down from the right of private property that is protected by the Constitution. The other one. Today, sadly, the government of Timoshenko is trying to transform Ukraine into a single energy system. There will be no such thing! In my time, I would like to remind you that young people who roll their heads, you just went to school at the time, but in your time, the only energy systems in the Ukrainian gas market have been operating exactly the same way that the government has been operating around the country lately. They made the gas conditions unfavourable for Ukraine: $80 per gas, I want to remind you. Then they shut down the gas to industrial enterprises, forced them to sign unfavourable contracts for them, and then seized private property for creditors’ debt. This cannot be repeated throughout our country. A party of regions claims that it will stand in defense of the law, regardless of which persons will violate it. And we want to urge all citizens in Ukraine, especially government officials, not to follow illegal orders and orders from their leaders, regardless of what they threaten to do. In order that none of the officials should go to the present - day authorities to make officials of the same kind as this authority. We will, as an opposition, defend any man who suffers from this power. And the third. We don't have to make the last, dig the last drop of our country's image in the world. The last investors will flee the country if they find out that some cleric has decided to take up property for several billion dollars. I want to remind you. That the head of NAK “Naftogazu” Dubina did not sign illegal documents and went to the hospital. NAK Naftogazu’s chief accountant did not go and go on vacation. Today, government officials are breaking through their knees. We will not allow this as an opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u159	Dear National Deputies! All those who signed up spoke. The factions that didn't sign up will act? No, I can't see. So we're done here. Obviously, respectable colleagues, and the conclusion is one: the country is collapsing, and we find it falling apart by taking over the various sides of the barricade. And it's not on one side with people. The government has turned into fragments. Both the country and its institutions are forced to serve certain politicians or other authorities. And here we have seen, and the Supreme Council, unfortunately, cannot speak. And it has to be the only one, the only institution in power that has to take responsibility. And in the country, there's gonna be a law, and then there's not gonna be any investors running away. If we're going to be investors to adjust Ukrainian laws and Ukraine, I think they're going to view Ukraine as a plantation. So I'm convinced that aside from what we talked about, it was a proposal to create a temporary commission of inquiry, please. Appropriate proposals should be made in accordance with the order in which they are to be made. Today the committee will address this issue. If he looks at it and there's no comment, tomorrow we can vote on it. Regarding the draft decision proposed, 4156. Dear colleagues, since this is not a personnel issue, because only personnel issues do not need to be considered on the committees, we need the committee to consider these proposals today. At the same time, it would be possible today, if there is, or the will of the Supreme Council will be demonstrated, to contact the Attorney General to provide comprehensive information to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on this incident. Because it's got a general Ukrainian character, if you get to know the news now. Because one state institution storms another state institution. Where, in which country, is this evident?Oh, my God! So let's do it this way. This is the draft decision we're going to refer to the committee. Let the profile committee have a look. And as for the appeal to the Attorney General's Office, if there's no objection, I'm going to sign today's appeal for the Supreme Council of Ukraine. With regard to the consideration of Bills 3596, 3596-1, they are in order of the daily Supreme Council of Ukraine, and we have agreed that tomorrow the Supreme Council of Ukraine will consider them. So essentially, we've responded to all of the proposals in the draft regulations. Is there no warning on this? Please, Roman Zvarich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u160	Volodymyr Mihajlovich, we have just heard from the mouth of the first deputy head of the Ukrainian Security Service that he has received a sanction or, more faithfully, this body has been authorized to conduct appropriate procedural actions, and in particular in the area of pretrial investigation, which allows for the detention of a person from the Attorney General of Ukraine. That is why I believe that we, as the Supreme Council, should now address the Attorney-General, ask him to come here within the limits of the accountability of the Office of the Attorney-General of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and give us complete information on this matter. Because I'm convinced that I've acted contrary to my procedural rights. And since there was a direct reference to the Attorney General's Office, I demand that the Attorney General be present and that he provide complete information on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u161	Honorable National MPs, in the development of Roman Mikhailovich Zvaric's proposal. Let's do it this way. Not now, we'll wait for the Attorney General to arrive. Let's do that. Please. Let us now address the Attorney General. You supported this proposal. We'll get the information, then we'll figure it out. If we have to listen to the Attorney General, then we will make that decision. I think it's a normal offer. For what reason? We have completed our consideration of the matter. We have completed our consideration of the matter. For what reason? Ladies and gentlemen, if you will. Oleg Pisarenko, please. Oh, Oleg Lazko, I'm sorry. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u162	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, you have just admitted that the entire information space is only about how the Security Service captures the national stock company Naftogaz in Ukraine. I address you as the Head of the Supreme Council. This is where the duty of the Security Service is to stop the circus immediately. What in the center of Kiev armed with masks is captured by the “Naftogaz ” of Ukraine. Or let him come out and say that they've exhausted all possible measures, that there's no other action. What is the reason for taking possession of this institution by armed men? We'll make the whole world laugh.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u163	Yuri Miroshnichenko and finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u164	Dear voters, distinguished colleagues. Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. I'd like to address our representatives from Julia Timoshenko. You just accused the Ukrainian Security Service of being involved. But I'm the person who's watching this discussion, and I can tell you that on the side of it, it looks like BET is now interested in pushing both the Security Service and the Henprosecutor's Office to some extent. Let's do it this way. Because Vladimir Mikhailovich has no right to give such an assignment to the Security Service. You know he can't do that. Let's get information from the D.A.'s office, let's complete the investigation of the B.B.I. And we'll discuss it if we have to. But objectivity should also be honesty in our relationship if we are talking about the truth, not trying to really tear the country apart. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u165	Dear colleagues, let's finish, please, the consideration of the matter in this way. Now I'm reading the proposal, you're voting that I should have a reason to go to the Attorney General. The proposal is this: “To request the Chief of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to contact the Attorney General of Ukraine with an immediate proposal to review the legality of the criminal offence and to detain a staff member of the Energy Regional Customs Service of the United States of America, Spitko Taras Volodymirovich, and to inform the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the measures taken in the course of the procurator’s response. Is that a good offer? Dear colleagues, I'm voting on this proposal. Put everything else in writing. All of it! Please vote. [[13:11:05]] For 226 Decision taken. As for the interim commission of inquiry, please consider the proposals as agreed today. We'll be looking at the drafts on this issue on Thursday. I believe that we have made a comprehensive decision at this point. All of it. Review. Well, Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u166	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear National Deputies, Honourable Vladimir Mikhailovich, we have now done the right thing, except for one: we have not yet given you a mandate as Head of the Supreme Council to ask the President of Ukraine to finally start implementing the Law on Temporary Responsibilities, which provides that only one month, not two and a half years, can be served as Head of the Security Service! Because it's called usurping power by certain officials, that's what we'll call it. And we've got a circus going on, and at five o'clock they're calling off questions, taking down questions on the head of the Security Service, and we haven't looked at them. Today the Headless Security Service, there's no head! There is no responsibilities! No one's here, do you understand? And we see these lawlessnesss are colossal. That's just part of it. In fact, there were two: Under the Counterintelligence Act, two Deputy Attorney General listened, eight judges listened illegally, and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u167	Thank you. Dear colleagues, at your request today, I will make a proposal to the President of Ukraine, in accordance with the requirements of the Constitution, to run for office as head of the Ukrainian Security Service. Is there no objection? Thank you. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Organization of the Formulation and around of Credit History is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 2507]] The rapporteur is national deputy Valerius Anatolyevich Bondik. Stanislaw Arzewittin will be the narrator.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u168	Honorable Colleagues and Honorable Leadership! After such a lively discussion, I would like to report my bill, which, in contrast to the government's policy of protecting citizens' rights, including access to the data bank, is not to be taken as a financial service to the Bureau of Credit History. As reported by Honourable Mikola Vasilovich, they pass this bill, which they voted in the Hall, they pass on the function of correcting information, i.e. responsibility and licensing for credit history to the State Commission on Securities. But the Bureau of Credit History is not a financial service and this is a conceptual error. A “information centre” company has been created in the Minsk system. Minust is a unique enterprise that owns 19 registers. Or do we need this period of economic and financial crisis when collectors are growing to have access? Did "black parts" have access to information? For the information on debt, tax information, tax pay, for all the information about a person. At the same time, I stress that in this room in 2006, Alexander Schlapak reported on the law that the Bureau of Credit History is the structure of the executive body, that is, the Cabinet of Ministers, in carrying out economic policy in the government, it creates, in accordance with the Constitution, and this is the mistake of the Scientific and Experimental Authority, look. He created either an executive body with a special status or he was handed over to Minjust as he is now. According to the Budget Code, established units have already been created, and people are working to protect those who work professionally at the Ministry of Justice. And we don't have to turn this fuzz nation down to the commission. According to this commission has been operating since 2003, it was created by the President's decree. [[according to position]]
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u169	Let me finish. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u170	Thus, there is no time, but I ask to respond responsibly to this law and according to the legislation adopted by our predecessors, the legislators. If we are moving to Europe, there is a law on adapting our legislation to Europe and data banks are protected everywhere in Europe, and Ministos is a protection of citizens' rights. So please vote in favour of my draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u171	Thank you. From the committee first deputy head of the Committee on Finance and Banking, Stanislaw Mikhajlovich Arzvetin. Please conclude the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u172	Dear colleagues, our committee has considered this alternative bill before that bill, which we have considered a little earlier. And this bill has two innovations. The first money is to create a special, state-owned body in the country that will regulate the Bureau of Credit History. I don't think it's relevant anymore, because the previous bill has regulated this rule, and this function has been delegated to the Commission, the State Commission on Financial Markets Regulation. The second money of this alternative bill relates to the improvement of certain terms for the application of Ukrainian spelling and so forth. But in our committee, there was a substantial discussion that the author was introducing new terms. For example, correction, we don't share the idea that there should be people in this office. Which will correct the information. We don't exactly share the norm when the author proposes to reduce the requirements for founders of credit history bureaus. If, earlier or today, the founders had to have an impeccable reputation and for three years have no payments to the state, the author proposes to withdraw this rule and impose a requirement that if, on the day he registers, he should not have the same debt to the state on that day. We don't share these positions, but our committee is proposing and recommending that the Supreme Council adopt the bill as a basis for the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u173	Dear colleagues, please register to discuss the bill if necessary. Please put your name on the board. Take out the national MPs. Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, Communist faction. The next one will be Alexy Plonikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u174	Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you how we're supposed to deal with you right now: we've just passed a similar law in general. A total of 370 national deputies voted. This bill that we're looking at right now is much better written and more useful for people. But we can't accept it with you because it conflicts with the law we just passed. And the committee that's reporting is asking us to take him in. And I support the committee because it's better than the previous law that we just voted with you. This law is much broader, much more extensive, as it were. So I'd like the committees, especially the committees, because in the session room, really, it's hard, not all of them have bills at their disposal, and they can figure out that the committee's preparation process is more scrupulous and they're making recommendations here. In fact, these are laws that are alternative. They did not enter the alternative for just one reason that they were introduced at a time. Alternative when you're serving for 14 days. If I can't get a new number, it's not an alternative. But this is the real alternative. And I just don't know. I, for example, have to vote. We will, unfortunately, support this law, which will come into conflict with the law that we have just voted on.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u175	Alexy Plotnikov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u176	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! I want to fully support my colleague Martinyuk that this is a better law than the law we just voted for. Previously on AMC's The Walking Given that this is the law that covers the most fully both the ways of creating credit stories and the appropriate organizational structures that should deal with these credit stories. And even more broadly, it covers the issue of whatever, even civil society, in terms of what gives citizens rights and freedoms in terms of obtaining loans. So from this point of view, I propose to support this very bill of our colleague by faction, and I hope that from the point of view of the national economy, from the point of view of the interests of society, this law must be supported and implemented. And the way he conflicts with the previous law, it's Adam Ivanovich who said, it's a different question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u177	National MP Arjevetin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u178	Dear colleagues, this bill or these initiatives do not meet the requirements of modern realities. Please tell us, if there are five private offices in our country today that are just on their own way to development, is it necessary for these private five offices to establish a separate government institution? I don't think that's appropriate. If we look at the experience of our neighbouring nations, those with economies in transition, the body that regulates these services is the State Commission for regulating the financial services market. If you take countries where there is more democracy, these functions are generally delegated by the State to self-regulation organizations and only followed by them. In terms of even more developed countries, where financial markets create one body that accumulates the functions of the National Bank, control functions, the functions of the Securities Commission, the Commission on Government Markets Regulation. I think maybe we'll come to that one day, but this model is still too early for us. I think the authors need to understand that there are many other outstanding functions in our country. For example, a market relationship, a collectible relationship. But does this indicate that we should create a special government body for them? I'd like to remind members that we're about to consider setting up a state institution to guarantee people's contributions to credit unions. Next, our committee considers another government agency to guarantee contributions to insurance companies, and so on. So I don't think that's relevant. In addition, the author's proposal to reduce the requirements for the founders of these institutions, as I said, I think, is not justified. If we talk again about the period of adjustment, if we give private organizations the right to collect information and then to regulate it, I think that's what this office is going to be.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u179	Dear colleagues. Valery Bondick, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u180	Dear colleagues, unlike the previous speaker, I don't refer to lobbying any banking structures or anything like that. I knew this problem when I was working in Minsk. First of all, my bill is designed to either leave this function in Minsk or create an appropriate body that will determine the Kabmin, because it defines economic policy in accordance with the Constitution. You see, Minust gives up on himself at all and passes it on to whom? Market and Financial Services Commissions But credit history is a collection of information, a correction of it, it's not a financial service. Read the Civil Code. And so, dear colleagues, this project is aimed only at the fact that, according to the approved plan of the Cabinet of Ministers, Minust should develop rather than give up this function, develop and improve the model. So I would like to support this because it's for the benefit of citizens and for the protection of, really, information about citizens. I've already said, passports, taxes and so on, everything that goes with credit.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u181	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? A proposal by the adoption committee is put to the vote on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Organization of the Forming and around of Credit History. [[Registration number 2507]] Please vote. [[13:25:12]] For 207 The law is not adopted. It may thus be that the commission of the committee in preparing for the second reading takes into account the proposals of the bill. Oh, the whole thing? The factions, please. The Party of the Regions is 156; the Block of July Timoshenko - 2; Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense - 3; the Communist faction - 27; the Block of Lithuania - 19. Well, then, the bill is rejected, right? [[B in m in s a l in]] What's to go back to? All right, I'm putting the vote back on the bill as a basis. Back to the vote, please. [[13:26:14]] For 225 The decision is not taken. Do you want to reread it? Right. Dear colleagues! Well, I'm asking you, where do I go back? Well, I voted twice, it doesn't make sense anymore. [[B in m in s a l in]] I understand. Let's keep it that way, let's keep it that way, so we can get something normal. For re-reading, please. Calm down! We must keep this fragile peace in the Supreme Council! I understand you're in the position of the committee, and I'm stepping out of the position of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Let's get this way! Please re-read the bill 257. [[13:27:22]] For 229 Decision taken. And I would ask then, dear fellows! Committees are more principled. You first accept everything as a basis, and then you expect the Supreme Council not to consider these laws. Come on, show an objective, principled approach. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is being promulgated. [[on increasing responsibility for fuelling political, ideological, racial, national or religious hostility]] Registration numbers 2281, 2281-1. The reporter is the National Deputy of Ukraine, Anna Mikolayevna Herman. Please, Anna Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u182	Dear colleagues, the bill that we are currently considering is of exceptional importance, especially at the time of the crisis. Because distressed and angry people can be influenced by ultra - radical politicians who try to find an enemy, to appoint an enemy. And this enemy will be appointed either by the color of his skin or by the language or by the church he goes to. And now it's very important not to let society's opposition get worse in the background, in fact, the ideological, political, racial difference. This bill for the first time provides for very severe punishments for these things, and for the first time this bill provides grounds for prohibition, for actual prohibition, not only of murder or mutilation, for reasons of race, ideology, political or religious differences, but even for the word of an individual’s feelings. You know, it's hard for me to call Julia Timoshenko's proponent, but when I saw the book "Makuja" where there are some clues about what nationality was the grandfather or great-grandfather of one or the other, I realized that if we got to the elections without the law, which would severely punish such things until we were brought to criminal responsibility, we would repeat it, dear colleagues, 2004. We, my bill, foresee a ban on manufacturing, the introduction of similar literature, which emphasizes some kind of race.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u183	Give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u184	Dear colleagues, it is important that our Parliament by consensus not only separate factions but all factions vote that we should never allow conflicts of race, religion, political or ideological origin in Ukraine. I ask you to support this bill. A similar bill, but much softer, without the definition of ideological and political things, was prepared by my colleague, Taras Cnerovil. And whatever bill you don't support, I'm going to vote for both. The only thing I'm asking is for you. I believe that today we must vote in favour of a bill that is more severe in terms of punishment, which provides for severe penalties for the attempts of political adventurers to take advantage of the fact that we are all different in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention and I hope for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u185	Taras Viacheslavovich Cranvil is the author of the bill on the same issue. [[Registration number 2281-1]] Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u186	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished fellow national MPs! I am fully attached to those motives for solving this very serious legislation and, unfortunately, to the current problem that my colleague Hanna Herman has just said. I'm just going to add that in the plane of where I work, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, we are already emerging, and in the near future, we may have very serious international problems because it's these absolutely wild crimes on xenophobic soil, on the basis of racial or religious intolerance, that we don't have separate laws. My bill, as was said, may not be entirely accurate, softer. It is not softer, it is limited to certain areas. I was involved in my bill, and I put up with areas that I have to deal with more often. Therefore, it refers exclusively to the Criminal Code, not to administrative offences, presupposes crimes mainly against a person or specific crimes that relate to the special introduction of racism in Ukraine, precisely as a phenomenon through the creation of appropriate literature, appropriate means, appropriate promotion, and racial intolerance. In this case, I think my bill is almost completely absorbed by Anna Herman's bill. Because in the matter of criminal responsibility, which I'm explaining in my bill, they are absolutely identical, with the same requirements of rigid responsibility as outlined in Mrs. Anne Herman's bill. I had already had an idea, perhaps to withdraw my bill. But in this case, there's no competition. Ms. Anna's going to the first law to vote. I'll vote for him too, and I call on everyone. In case, under some circumstances, because there were some questions raised at one of the committee meetings, it wouldn't suddenly be supported, in that case I'm asking to vote in favour of my bill. Either way, we have to solve this problem. That's why the first one is Miss Anna, the second one is mine. We have to solve this question.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u187	Thank you. Please, from the Committee of Vladimir Romanovich Moysik, Head of the Committee on Legal Protection.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u188	Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! The Committee on Law Enforcement has considered both bills submitted by colleagues from the Taras Cranovil and Hanna Mikolayevna Herman factions. And despite all the negative conclusions, yes, both scientific institutions and practitioners, Hanna Mikolayevna convinced the committee that her bill was needed, correct and better than the bill that her colleague passed on the faction. The committee therefore proposes to support Hanna Mikolayovna Herman's bill as a basis. And another, Volodymyr Mikhailovich. I personally refer to you, in your absence, the bill was voted in number 1337 on charges of criminal offences. So this bill got all the positive conclusions from all the organizations. All members of the committee from all the political forces in Parliament supported the bill. 68 votes were cast for him, well, it's a disgrace to our committee, and the committee is one of the most fertile in Parliament. So I would ask, though, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to re-read it. Because it prevents criminal cases from being investigated because of artificial obstacles created by valid law. Please, colleagues, back up the first bill of 1337. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u189	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the discussion. Please register with the National Deputies for a discussion. Please put the names of the people's deputies on the board. Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u190	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Vladimir Romanovich did not tell the whole story about the comments, the warnings that had been made. It is thought that the development of civil society in Ukraine involves a degree of liberalisation of public, cultural and educational activities, agricultural organizations and so forth. But the specific historical situation in which our nation is now in need of a few other approaches. And, unfortunately, I can say that our society rarely hears any sharp, uncompromising reaction of power or state to manifestations of political, ideological, racial or religious hostility. You know, at first glance, these are kind of harmless anecdotes and at the level of the household, black toothpicks can actually lead to very heavy and heavy sad, bitter, and, above all, irreversible consequences. So we need to be on guard, because at some point we're getting more and more isolated. Ukraine today, I'm telling you, that's what the representative of the industrial country -- Zaporozhye, Ukraine is getting more and more comfortable because it's more convenient than the countries of Europe and the countries of the former and present SNDs because we don't have these shows in mass cases. But look at this, this is a powerful example: the Zaporezian National Medical University, which is attractive to foreigners. The smallest manifestations that were there were immediately stopped by the rectorate of the university with the help of local law enforcement agencies, and now they are not even close to it, and everyone knows perfectly well that it can't be. We must vote and support Anna Hermann's bill in order to put on a national level the image of such negative phenomena, especially before the Euro-2012. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u191	National Deputy Hassuk, faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u192	Peter Hashuk, faction of the "Blocca timoshenko" Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, I am representing in Parliament a multinational area and I know how important peace and tranquillity are in areas where there are many nationalities, first and foremost in Ukraine. Thank God, there have been no international issues in our Bukovin region for centuries, excluding World War II, and I certainly propose to support the bill. Part two of my two minutes, please pass it on to Vladimir Yavorowski. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u193	The thing is, we can't pass it on. You either speak to the end, or we'll consider this time saved. Oleg Zaruinsky, please, “Block of Lithuania”.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u194	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, you know, reading both bills, I realized that there is a key message here, or, as it is fashionable to say, a repertoire from which it is still coming, is a word, a term and a disgraceful phenomenon of the “driver”. I think that the authors of the bill have made it quite right to say that when the motive for the crimes is hostility, they have done it right. I enjoyed these bills and the fact that it's not just about animosity, racial, national or religious, which in itself is a disgraceful phenomenon for a normal, civilized society. But here we're talking about two other things or dispositions: ideological hostility and political hostility. Because the experience of our countries in recent years shows that not only religious, that yes, not only racial, that yes, not only national, that yes, hostility, but also political hostility provokes crime, warms crime, stirs crime. And I don't agree here with the conclusion of the scientific expertise that's in front of me, where it's about the need for statistics, which was very large, for example, in Russia, in order for us to adopt such bills. So maybe we'll start off, like Pyrogov said about medicine: working with prevention? Perhaps it is good that we do not have such a mass phenomenon, even though this is still a question that is questionable? Because the dynamics are, unfortunately, negative. Therefore, I believe that the Block of Lithuania will support these bills, of course, in the first reading, there is something else to work on, but hostility as a phenomenon is to disappear in our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u195	Yuri Karmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u196	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Ladies and gentlemen, I have had to give four years of my life to the new Criminal Code, almost four. And I want to tell you that when we were working on it, we predicted the things that you were talking about right now, Mr. Hanna, we foresaw, her God, foresaw. They are provided for in article 67 of the Criminal Code, which explicitly states that the commission of a crime on the ground of racial, national or religious enmity or discord is a circumstance that burdens punishment. But this is written in the general part, which refers completely to everything else and to the other part. I'm sorry, well, it's an unnecessary addition, it's, you know, it's kind of spoiling sometimes. I see here the positive, there's the positive in this bill. And I'm going to vote for the first reading. But I urge everyone not to go along the way of whoever was drafting this bill, because it was prepared by or a very irresponsible graduate who wants to write the dissertation and there to write what's been introduced, I'm telling you, I know why I'm saying, or not a very competent scientist, because you don't have to predict what's already scheduled. To predict in the explanatory note what it will be. an oral investigation will rely on internal affairs, and an explanatory one. That's what I'm talking There's nothing in the table of comparison, and there's no such introductions, so that's the basic kind of, you know, a nuisance in the drafting of the bill is allowed. I understand you wanted to pay attention to something else. So, in my opinion, I'd like to talk to you about this right now. It's a question. The motives of political and ideological hostility. Ladies and gentlemen! Stand here one day and listen. We have every show going on with political enmity. That's very bad. And it's going to be very hard to figure out where this political or ideological, very difficult, no expertise is going to show.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u197	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u198	Thank you. But let's take it anyway. I am glad that there are changes to the Administrative Code, and there are questions to be asked. And let's move on somehow, at least the fact that we're talking about it today is already moving forward. So I'm going to vote for the adoption of this bill in the first reading, but I'm paying attention, give it to those who have prepared it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u199	Thank you. Please, Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u200	Dear colleagues, I, in support of this idea, would also like to draw our colleague Carmazin's attention to the fact that if the bill were in force, part 2 of Article 127 would have entered into force after our discussion on the BPO when a group of people had committed political hostility under the previous conspiracy, up to 10 years. So we wouldn't be in Parliament for 10 years. So, friends, that's a great idea, but I'd still be able to find those people who can't plant at least one employer for the theft of billions of dollars today, we've been debating for 10 years who figured out who in our political enmity today deserves 5 or 10 years, and then who's going to start explaining the ideological hostility that we have on television screens and so on. So we're voting in the first reading, and really Yuri Carmazin is right, so we need to involve experts, experts who would put tools under the idea. The idea is right, but obviously we need to find a toolbox so we can understand how this thing is going to move on so it doesn't hang out and be an object of speculation. So I think after the first reading, of course, we need a serious discussion, not only at the level of ideology, but also at the level of experts, and then we're going to vote in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u201	Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. It's happening. I am voting on a proposal to adopt a draft law amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts. [[on increasing responsibility for fuelling political, ideological, racial, national or religious hostility]] Please vote. [[13:46:25]] For 221 The factions, please. I'm voting on the committee's proposal: to accept as a basis. And the author of the project suggested, I mean, Taras Cranville. Region Party - 167, Timoshenko Yulia Block - 1, Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense - 6, Communist faction - 27, Litvina Block - 20. It is up to the vote on the adoption as a basis of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on increasing responsibility for fuelling political, ideological, racial, national or religious hostility]] Please vote. [[13:47:18]] For three hundred Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we continue our work for 15 minutes, up to 14 hours 15 minutes. A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on customs matters is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 2400]] Reporter is Deputy Minister of Economy Zyživnov Mikhailo Aleksandrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u202	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! Ukraine's draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on customs matters has been developed by the Mineconomy to implement the decisions of the Ukrainian Customs Council, which took place on 21 December 2006 with the aim of legislativeizing the functioning of the Ukrainian Customs and Tariff Council for Mine Economics. The bill proposes to amend article 5 of the Ukrainian Act of 92, number 2097, “On the sole customs tariff”, which is legally established for the Mineconomies as a working apparatus of the Ukrainian Customs Council. The change is due to the fact that Mineconomy has actually been operating for the last ten years. In addition, according to the Mineconomy, one of the main tasks of ministries is to implement the only external economic policy, including the customs tariff regulation of foreign trade. The second is the removal of a 50 per cent reduction in the import rate of import into the customs territory of Ukraine of children's items, which is foreseen in part of the third article of the Second Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine since 93 "On Ukraine's only customs tariff". The need to amend the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers is explained by the fact that there are problems today not only in the absence of a legislative arrangement to approve the listing of such goods but also in the resatisfaction of the internal market with imports of children’s products. It should be noted that when listing children according to OCHA codes, they are virtually impossible to separate from general product subcategories, and the removal of the mentioned standard will help to ensure the stable functioning of the national manufacturer. Moreover, after Ukraine's accession to the World Trade Organization, most of these commodity groups have a zero rate. Therefore, I would like, honourable national deputies, to support the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts proposed for your consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u203	Thank you, sit down, please. Head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy Sergei Anatoliyovich Teryohin
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u204	Honorary colleagues, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Tax Customs Policy, reviewed the Cabinet’s draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on customs matters since 18.04. [[Registration number 2400]] In 2008 The committee considers it appropriate to support the proposals proposed by the Cabinet, since the proposed cancellation of the benefits and the payment of the import duty is only a de facto elimination of the rule. With regard to the definition of the list of children's goods of light industry, which, according to the CCTV today, cannot be separated from the general commodity theory of light industry, these are clothes and shoes, Ukrainian National Deputies, members of the Committee propose to make the necessary changes to Ukraine's Customs Tariff Act on second reading. He'll be looking at the change in product codification tomorrow. According to members of the committee, the legislative consolidation of the functions of the Customs Council working apparatus under the Ministry of Economics of Ukraine seems entirely justified because the Ministry has been carrying out these functions for the past ten years. There are many former economic ministers here who can confirm this position. Taking into account the above, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a bill submitted by Kabmin on a basis. The Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council supports the adoption of the bill in the first reading. For the second reading of these questions that I've spoken about, we're going to propose a solution and agreement with the legal administration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u205	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? Please sign in. Please put the name of the national MPs on the board. Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk. You've got to sign up, you haven't signed up.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u206	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Yuri Anatolyovich, you're an active person who votes in favour of a reduced procedure, you come to me, I'll tell you what a reduced procedure is. If you haven't been able to log in, you're not going to write it down because you want to do it in a reduced procedure. And if the chairman gives you the floor, he will break the Rules, violate the Rules and the summary procedure you have voted on. Now on the subject of the law. A double impression of this law. The left hand wants to vote in favour of the bill because there's not a bad idea of who's going to give it to. In fact, it better be in Mineconomy. But on the other hand, I don't know if my colleagues in the session room are going to be able to raise their right hand to vote in order to take 50 percent reduction in the rate on children's goods. Now, children's goods that are being shipped to our country are being paid 50 percent of the time. The Minister's office is proposing that this rule be taken away. So no doubt our faction will not support this bill. And we ask others to support our offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u207	Nestor Shufrich, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u208	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! We're really voting for absurdity here. We realize that a crisis that lacks money in the budget, we feel it all. But you have to have a conscience to earn on children. So we understand that if we raise the duty now, these goods will still be imported, because unfortunately, we don't have a domestic manufacturer who will completely replace the production of these goods. And it's about these favorites in the power of "pompers," which she repeatedly mentions, and which she now wants to import even more expensively. I think we need to step aside and stop when we vote on this law. So once again, we had a question that we were discussing before the U.S.S.A. came and we found out whether it was legal or illegal to detain a customs officer. And I want to say in a language that will be well understood by the management of the BSS, that it will be very careful in its efforts to arrest someone. I would like all the management of the BSS to be optional today, they can hear me and see me, I am sure that they will at least be able to take and read carefully yesterday the law that we overcame the veto on investigative commissions. [[Well, you're right, you're right.]] Twelve days from now, these mountain generals will come to the Supreme Council and testify to the High Council investigative commission and we will decide whether or not to remove them. We will file cases and charges against them, and they must understand that their jury is closing. The rights of our citizens will be protected by the Supreme Council of Ukraine if the court and other bodies cannot do so. I am absolutely sure that we will not allow the abuse of power; the perpetrators must be punished. But today preventive methods, such as content, such as non-departure subscriptions and other methods, must have priority over detention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u209	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u210	We must have priority over the arrest of our citizens. And I'm talking to you again. Now, let's protect our mothers, protect our children, and not let them take the credit for goods that are unfortunately not yet being produced in Ukraine. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u211	Please, the head of the Committee of Terjehochin and then the repulsion of Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u212	Dear colleagues! Well, before we go to the rostrum, we have to read the bill. Two of the reporters told us that there is no one there at all. Today, according to the diapers, the honourable MP last, zero stands. Fifty percent of zero is going to be zero. It's about products of light industry, where the children's range is now not assigned to a separate code. If we don't accept this bill in the first reading, we're not going to continue to assign a children's range into a separate code, and we're not going to be able to apply a zero rate. Well, before you say anything that smart, read what you're talking about. That's why our proposal is the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u213	Yuri Carmazin, the replica. One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u214	Dear friends, there really isn't any diapers -- it's Yuri Carmazin who says. Although I understand that a long time ago in the country industry, you have to make your own diapers, not bring them all here. Come on, I have a question for those who were against the bill. Is there another country in the world that allows 50 percent of everything that is done for children and refuses to load, huh? What do you explain to your constituents, respectable ones, there is no more country in the world, there is no country! Eighty percent have taken over our native’s market today, and we are opposed to canceling it, so it must be those politicians who need to put on diapers and sit at home, not approach the rostrum! That's the first one. And the second. This law should be adopted in two readings and translated into a long - standing Minneconomy, and there are only two lines that have been recognized as having lost the validity of part 3 of Article 2 of the Decree. What's here, Mr. Terriohin, in two readings I don't know, is you have to take in the first and second now and put up a dot and start making baby goods and let industry work, and then don't cry that we have nothing, mind not!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u215	Dear colleagues, please describe Adam Martinyuk. Dear colleagues, you didn't have the right to speak for a reduced procedure, but you have the right, so let's make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u216	Dear colleagues, let's not get emotional, if you have a bill, please take it into your hand, open a bill, a comparative table on page 5, and read the left-hand side of what's going to work and what's right. The import of children’s items reduces the rate of duty by 50 percent. This is now part of the law. On the right hand side, it's suggested that the content of the corresponding position be excluded. That's right, Sergey Anatolyevich, I understand your professionalism to label the entire Supreme Council, but we can read.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u217	Dear colleagues, let's go now, deputy, one minute, no last name. I ask you to calm down, dear fellows, let us find an understanding, because the committee says that by excluding the sentence “the import of children's items into a child's assortment the rate of duty is falling by 50 per cent.” The point is that there's going to be zero, and there's not even going to be any pay. Well, let's hear from the deputy minister. If that's true, the way we treat and the committee treats, then we need to uphold these laws. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u218	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Ukraine's distinguished national deputies, today's customs tariff, are operating zero rates of duty on the following children's goods: baby food, plastics, baby diapers, diapers, and similar products, wheelchairs and vehicles for the transport of children, parts for them. According to WTO, we switched and introduced a large group, further reduced levels, and put zero rates on children’s furniture, printed books, books, brochures, and similar printed materials. Everything Teryohin said was absolutely right. There is one group of clothes that cannot even be divided today. 39 size is a baby's shoe or is that a grown-up's shoe? And in order not to use it, it needs to be cleaned up perfectly. Thank you. And I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u219	Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. The position of the committee has been proven to you. The government's position is well known. Let's take this as a basis and then take a closer look at this bill in preparation for the second reading. If this is in the best interests of our children, we must be supportive. So, respectable colleagues, well, we trust colleagues who say zero bet.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-04-m0.u220	No, it's not. That's why I'm asking for your attention! A committee proposal shall be put to the vote. Concerning the adoption of a draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on customs matters. Please vote. [[14:02:28]] For 186 The decision is not taken. I'm putting a motion to the vote, please note, to re-read the bill 2400. Please vote. Let's do it again. [[14:02:56]] For 190 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Dear colleagues, we will no longer be able to consider the following bills. Ten minutes left. Therefore, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow we'll continue our plenary work at 10:00 a.m. on schedule for Thursday. And given the issues that we haven't been able to consider today, since the 15th hour of the committee meeting.
