ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine, guests of the Supreme Council! Please include the “Council” system. [[10:00:54]] There are 417 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The morning plenary session is open. In accordance with article 25 of the Rules, we have 30 minutes to speak on behalf of Ukraine’s national deputies today. People's deputies please register. While the recording goes on, I will announce the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in plenary session, at two plenary sessions on December 1. Four questions of the agenda have been considered. As a result, one bill was adopted in a second reading and directed at a third reading. As a result of a review of the President's proposals, the President's veto has been overturned by one law and one law has been rejected. Let's move on to the performances. Oleg Grigorovich Belarus, please. Mikhail Kosov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u2	Thank you. Mikhailo Kossov, "Club of Yulia Timoshenko", Party "Reforms and Orders". First of all, I would like to address you, fellow countrymen, and our constituents. The world today is experiencing two catastrophes and two epidemics. This is the catastrophe of the economic and financial crisis in the world that hit everyone. It's an influenza epidemic that's taken and taken lives all over the world. But Ukraine is also different from the rest of the world because we are experiencing a third tragedy. I would call this tragedy an epidemic of hatred. Before the presidential election, almost all political elites in Ukraine seem to have focused on the fact that one candidate, Julius Timoshenko, was being watered by dirt. And that's why today I belong to those who have formed an organizational committee, and we will sign a letter to all the voters in Ukraine, to the presidential candidates and their teams, to all those who care about the future fate of Ukraine. Of course, we were unable to repeat the 2004 situation and unite, as was then, around one candidate. That's what's going to happen in the first round. But in the second round yesterday. But in the second round, as Julia Timoshenko said in Lviv yesterday, we must promise everyone today that we will vote for the candidate who will come out from the national democratic forces in the second round, whoever he is. If that's what it is. I won't call it a last name, because it doesn't matter, and let's not argue right now who's going to be this candidate, but whoever doesn't go on the second round, all the people for whom the expensive future of Ukraine, who are experiencing the future of Ukraine, have to unite around one candidate. Because you don't have to listen to so-called political scientists that all the pre-election programs are the same. They're not exactly the same. And what concerns economic problems and cultural problems are completely different programs. Let's vote for Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u3	Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich. Mikhailo Mikolaiovich Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u4	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Dear citizens of Ukraine! Today, I was assigned by the faction of the Ukrainian Party of the Supreme Council to speak from the rostrum, and this is our civic duty. Because the lie that is heard daily by the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the ministers, the entire government of Ukraine regarding the Act on raising social standards, is today to find the principle of evaluation among us, the national deputies of Ukraine, and among Ukrainian citizens. How can you imagine that a person who is running for President of Ukraine and the chief duty of the President of Ukraine is to guarantee the constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens, and at the same time this person defiantly fails to implement the Ukrainian Act on Recalculation of Pensions, on Recalculation of Salaries, on Recalculation of Social Assistance? Let's try it with you at the Supreme Council of Ukraine and let the people and the television viewers who are watching us hear it. Pensions for November of this year ended. You know there's an automatic pension. In doing so, there is a minimum pension set by law in the calculation formula, and there are still payments and increases, which are established by the laws and government of Ukraine. So the citizens of Ukraine, in fact, received a pension November-month, coming out of a minimum pension of 498 dollars. The following was paid under Decree 654 of July 16, 2008 and an increase under Decree 198. There is a fact that is reflected and, fortunately, in the Pension Fund of Ukraine, unlike the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, there are honest people who showed me software that clearly and clearly stated that in November people received pensions from a minimum of 498 dollars. We demand that we do one thing right now. To pay 75 dollars for the minimum pension to be paid to the participants in the war, the law, which was set at 573 dollars, was paid to 3 million citizens who received the extra payment from the living minimum, which had increased to 4.5 million Ukrainian citizens, children of war. To make payments for November of this year for the care of a child under 3 years of age, for the sick, for the disabled. To make it possible for donors to make payments to victims of Nazi persecution and many other categories of citizens. And this lie that's coming out of the government today, about 60 copies, and by the way, the Pension Fund has now passed on information on the receiving of pensions in areas where, at the order of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, they predicted 60 copies. Your Honor, it's absolute impudence, that's absolutely it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u5	Finish it, Mikhailo Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u6	This thirst for the Ukrainian Prime Minister's environment to steal 1 billion dollars for an epidemic, it is worth now that the pig's feet are trampling on the people of Ukraine, on the poorest levels of the population. If they don't pay that money, first of all, we need the Attorney General's Office to evaluate it. And the first decree of President Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic of Ukraine will be the Order on the Supplement of 1 November of this year to All Pensions, Social Assistance and Salaries.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u7	Vaszczuk Katerina Timofievna
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u8	Katerina Vashuk, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear colleagues, I would like to ask our government today not to make a regrettable mistake so that the peasants will not be harmed again. We have recently learned that arrangements are being made for the transfer of forests, which in due course have been planted by farmers in cologne, in radospas, on their land, and today these forests are going to be taken from the peasants and transferred to state property. A lot of everything is taken to the peasants. I think this step is wrong, it's illegal, and it's taking, it's damaging the interests of the peasants. That's why I'm asking the government not to make that mistake, and the people who are trying not to be supported by the government. The other one. I'd like to speak to the Ministry of Finance. The year is ending, and the agricultural sector has not yet completed its funding on such important issues as livestock pay. I'm just from Volina. In all parts of the world, there is no payment for those who sold cattle. Nor is it paid, without payment for the government’s decree of 750 dollars per hectare of sugar beet. All of this makes the sugar branch damaged and endangers the mood of peasants with beet sowing for the second year. From the "white" Donbas, from sugar Ukraine, we can turn into a country that will import sugar. And other questions like that. Today, the Ministry of Agrarian Politics may need to make a clear study of the situation with regard to the export of bread. A great deal of bread is exported abroad by commercial structures and, more importantly, by only the third class, by the one who is going to bake bread in Ukraine. Volin is an area that has suffered from natural disasters. The company that has mills that provide Volin’s bakery with bread is again required to sell third - class grain to the commercial structure. What will be left of the oxen? Maybe, first of all, we should think about our own people. And another call to the Minister of Energy. Lately.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u9	Finish it, Catherine Timothy.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u10	There is not enough money to implement the village budget on time. But why do such policies take place when peasants owe at least 1, 2, 3 days for electricity because they were miscalculated, and they are subject to huge fines. I'm also here to call on the government to encourage energy workers who make money on the village's problems to order. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u11	Pierre Viacheslav Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u12	Alexander Vladimirovich, please pass the word to Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u13	Sergey Vladislavovich was involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u14	Dear colleagues! It is a good thing that even members of the opposition government realized that they had made a vote in favour of the Social Standards Act. So there is an opportunity to talk openly about it. And so, first position. Please tell me, how was it possible to decide on an increase of 817 million government expenditure without listening to anyone from the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Social Policy? So I would like to point out that when the Deputy Minister of Finance here, who gave all the information, went to the bank where the 817 thousand went, sorry millions, and how can they be used to raise pensions and social standards, he asked for a speech, the session hall with the votes of the Party of the Regions failed his ability to provide this information. When it is not even possible to speak to the Ministry of Social Policy and the Pension Fund, which then makes these absurd decisions, it is only evidence of how the Supreme Council approves such decisions. And now, essentially. What did we hear? It turns out that the leader of the opposition government's social bloc has not even heard of the government being forced to pay $28 million to raise the status of those who now have minimum standards. It turns out that the minister of the opposition government, who is concerned with social policy, doesn't know that now the only thing the government can do by implementing the decision of the Supreme Council voted for by the Party of the Regions is to raise this standard for pensioners in its mass. But it's clear that the government won't go for it, because raising a 60-pound pension is bullying our pensioners. That is why a special decision was made by the government to settle the issue. But not that, not even the main thing. The worst part is that by its decision, over which the Party of Regions had been caring for Parliament for two months and had not allowed it to hold sessions, there were actually 510 million reduced payments, which should go directly to children with disabilities and help families with children. I realize that it is not necessary for those who have approved this decision. But this is what millions of our fellow citizens need. That is why the government still has to look back at the increase of 100 million who have forced these poor people to balance their economic crisis status in any way. That is why our faction insists that the government’s information be heard on Friday, and Parliament finally approved decisions that would help people, not harm them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u15	The People’s Deputy Kirilenko hands over the right to speak to the People’s Deputy Stojko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u16	Thank you. Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians, John Stojko, the public movement “For Ukraine!” The civil movement “For Ukraine!” today is concerned about the activation of forces that want to torpedo the external evaluation system of the graduates of schools. Regardless of the positive assessment of educational reform, perhaps one of those present in Ukraine, both Ukrainian citizens and European experts in the Ukrainian Parliament, is a force that does not rest on the success of the new knowledge-assessment system. For two years now, young Ukrainians have become students of prestigious universities because of knowledge, not corruption. It also gives them no peace of mind that the same test issues across Ukraine create a whole educational system, unite the Ukrainian nation and put all aboriginals at the same level. Regrettably, they are not at peace with the claim in the world of national language, which has finally become the only language for testing Ukrainian graduates since 2010 after a two - year transition period. Attacks on external testing not only occur from opposition but also from coalition factions. For days, the faction of the Supreme Council of Vladimir Litvin called the Ukrainian language of testing, think of it as one of the biggest issues of appreciation. The authors had enough cynicism to refer to the European Charter as minorities. At the same time, they didn't name any countries in Europe where the knowledge of aboriginals was evaluated in any language other than the state, because you know and understand. Such practices mean destroying national identity, as well as combining language education. On April 15th, I want to remind you, in this room we passed the 4241 law on external testing in the first reading. Regrettably, since then, neither the faction of Prime Minister Yulia Timoshenko nor the faction of Vladimir Litvin have shown any will to accept the project as a whole. The Citizens' Movement “For Ukraine!” demands the immediate adoption of the 4142 bill as a whole, which will ensure the irreversibility of educational reform and the responsibility for attempts at fraud during testing. Further delays in this decision appear to be an open lobbying of corruption, as well as a political responsibility for which the ruling coalition will bear. I look forward to your understanding and support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u17	People's Deputies, Martinenko. Stratovic Volodymyr Mikolajovic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u18	Vladimir Stretović, Christian-Democratic Union, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" faction. Dear fellow national MPs! Respectable compatriots! On December 1, we celebrated the eighteenth anniversary of the U.S. referendum. An elder remembers the joy of having nine out of ten Ukrainians vote that Ukraine should be an independent, sovereign state. It's been 18 years. And today, in our heads, despair, in our hearts. And what will happen to Ukraine as a result of the elections that are coming together. There is a threatening trend in what might happen. But I want to say that after the election, life is still going on. And let us not find in the Ukrainian politics today those wise, enlightened Ukrainians who sat down for one table and decided to support them so that there is no confusion in the heads of the electorate, who is better than 18 people. I call on the democratic forces that are so skillfully dispersed today by our Head of State that they can unite their efforts in the second round, so that they can fight today, so that they do not get dirty, because such a trend in Ukrainian politics that we are so disputing in the process of its formation that we cannot unite for the greater, for the sake of Ukraine. I very much ask the presidential candidates not to water each other with dirt, but to speak of your achievements. Please don't pour this foam, it's garbage in our citizens' brains. Believe me, today, citizens in their 18 years of independence are already well-versed, politically-educated, uninvolved, they will make their own choices, but then morning comes, and we'll think we've had such a hard time. That there is no one and no one to visit, no one to give a hand, no one to greet. So I urge the democratic forces to recognize the responsibility of the moment. Not to argue, not to embarrass, not to defile each other, but in the second round to support the only democratic candidate who will continue to transform states into Ukraine. I am convinced that this candidate will be Julia Timoshenko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u19	Gnatkevich Yuri Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u20	Please pass the word to Oleni Šustik, a colleague of the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u21	Please, National Deputy Shustik.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u22	Olena Shustik, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, Ukrainian Social-Democratic Party. Honorable Chairman, Honorable Colleagues, Honourable Voters! I draw your attention to the alarming trends in the activities of the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine, which could result in the distortion of the results of our citizens' will. I am in the hands of the Head of the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine, Alexander Pasenyuk, at number 15 of October 16, this year. By this order, the Head of VASU, who has taken over the function of the VASU Presidency personally and individually, has created a Trial Chamber to deal with the election cases of the President of Ukraine and has approved its personal composition. This room included 15 judges from other chambers, 5 VASU deputies, 4 of whom are the heads of other courts, which are expressly prohibited by law. And most interesting. Accordingly, if necessary, the composition of the Judicial College to deal with applications and complaints related to the election process of the President of Ukraine is formed by the Head of the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine. So Alexander Pasenyuk wants one-on-one, one-on-one, one-on-one, one-on-one, one-on-one or one-on-one, one-on-one, and one-on-one, one-on-one, one-on-one, one-on-one, one-on-one, and one-on-one, one-on-one, one-on-one, one-on-one, one-on-one, one-on-one, one-on-one, one-on-one, one-on-one, one-on-on-one, one-on-one, one-on-one, one-on-one, and one-on-one, one-on-one, one-on-one-on-one, one-on-on-one, one-on-on-one-one, one-on-one-on-one, one-on-one-one-one-one-one-on-on-one, This automatically undermines the legitimacy of the electoral process, its results, because the composition of the judiciary will be incomplete and the decisions it makes will be illegal. In addition, the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine has official double standards in reviewing the decisions of the Kyiv Administrative Court of Appeal in cases concerning the prosecution of decisions, actions or omissions of the Central Electoral Commission, actions by candidates for the office of the President and their trustees, namely, that all administrative cases before the Court of First Instance are dealt with and decided by a judge on a single-person basis. Today, VASU cancels such decisions from the lower body for these reasons, but not all of them selectively. Of the 27 final decisions taken by one judge, 5 were somehow annulled and 17 were left in effect. There is a simple answer to that question. Two official explanations by the Supreme Administrative Court, one under the signature of the deputy chief of the Supreme Administrative Court of Tsurkan, which proves that these cases must be dealt with in one person. And the second is, according to Pasenuk himself, where it is said that consideration should be collegiate. So I appeal to the Head of the Supreme Court, to the Chief Justice of the Supreme Justice, to the Plenary of the Supreme Court, and I consider it appropriate to initiate the question of the disciplinary responsibility of the head of the Supreme Administrative Court, Alexander Pasenyuk, as well as to ensure that the same application of electoral legislation is ensured without delay, that the Chambers and Colleges of the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine be formed in clear compliance with the Law on the Courts of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u23	Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u24	Oleg Zarubinsky, Block of Lithuania. Respectable citizens, respectable colleagues! External independent evaluation has been used in Ukraine for 3 years. During this time, the public has been able to break a whole range of problems in the new procedure of admission to higher educational institutions. From the ability to appreciate the creative knowledge of students to the exclusion of skilled graduates. In fact, external independent evaluation, regardless of its stated objectives of transparent access to higher education, reduction of corruption in educational institutions, has not yet created fair conditions and equal opportunities for entry into institutions. The point is that the subject of external evaluation is violated only when the tests are virtually on the hands of the graduates. As a result, public outrage is no longer a result. The rights of the students are limited. The tests have already been passed. The problem subsides until the next introductory campaign. Not only does such an approach not only solve matters but it also solves the problems of educational bureaucrats. And for the next year, problems take on new forms. So today we need to work out what will be the most important tasks in six months. Today, one of the biggest evaluation problems is the language of testing. Despite Ukraine’s accession to the European Charter of Regional Languages or Minority Languages, despite article 10 of the Ukrainian Constitution, which guarantees free development, use and protection of languages of national minorities, language rights of graduates remain limited. Yes, the Ministry of Education and Science has made a decision that will not be implemented during the external evaluation in 2010. According to Ministry officials, there are enough dictionaries for students studying subjects in minority languages. It's during the tests. In doing so, they do not take into account the complex translation of terms in natural sciences, in mathematical disciplines. And just to understand what the students are doing all the time spent testing, you're going to have to spend on the translation, not the answer to the tests. The “Lithuania Block”, which has always denied volunteerism and debilitation as a method of state decision-making, requires: first, to urgently review Minosveti's illegal and illegal approaches to foreign language and second, to enable all future aboriginals to pass tests in the language that this subject was taught to them at school. All these screams are hate and absurd because people don't think about real people, don't think about graduates, don't think about them.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u25	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u26	All they can think about is ideologies. Ideology has already plagued everyone. Allow people to live in a free country. It'll be fair what we demand, it'll be civilized, and it just corresponds to a common sense that some people don't have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u27	Bondik Valeriy Anatoliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u28	Dear colleagues, Your Honor! You know, events on the field have already found their conclusions, and they have already been discussed in society. But those orange teams that led to the power of nonprofessionals, unfortunately, continue to comment on developments in a legal sense in a very wrong way. For example, the latest speeches by Interior Minister Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenka about the unfortunate accident, when a man was killed, was a commoner of the labor profession. They say that for some reason Yuri Vitaliyovich always assumes the role of court. It is not his function, nor can he determine when and who will answer, for there is still God’s judgment. Regrettably, you and I still remember the events when the national deputy of the Julia Timoshenko faction killed a man only because he entered his forest, as if his forest, but the forests belonged to the national wealth of all Ukrainian citizens. Sadly, this man has not been detained yet. So I would like to remind Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenka that sometimes my own authority is a management resource. When there is no authority, it is a privilege to resign, for it is management. A complex structure that the Ministry of Internal Affairs needs, above all, professionalism. Yuri Vitaliovich Lucenko cannot replace the authorities of research and investigation. Remember, at one time he was trying to draft a protocol on the accident without any reason. What if the head of state is already evaluating the minister of internal affairs? He's not a cop yet, but he's already. He didn't become a good cop, but he's got everything he doesn't need. You may recall when, in the ruling of the court, the Minister of Internal Affairs was obliged to apologize to Boris Kolesnikov, two courts confirmed this because there were warrants, there were payments of so - called books to the agents of Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenka. By the way, he didn't apologize, and he's still waiting for the cassation plant. In some cases, they are repeated in the practice of the minister of the interior when there is incompatible pressure on the court. And I'd also like to remind you of what happened when our colleague from the Elbus Tedeev faction was somehow called Yuri Vitaliovich, but all the requests, queries and all the answers confirm that he had nothing to do with it, and this was caused by the intention of Yuri Vitaliovich Lucenk. I'd like to say, you know, setting up a life-saver on a ship is a way to calm the ship's passengers. Sadly, though, in public order such a minister cannot appease society. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u29	Sulkovsky Pavel Gnatovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u30	Paul Sulkowski, Plainskin, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear colleagues, dear fellow countrymen! You know, for the first time in several centuries, you could even say that there was no such case in Ukraine since World War II, so that Ukraine would for the first time stop practically increasing the production of APC agricultural products. It's a practical, honorable, tragedy. You know, for the first time, there was no such cynicism and no such lie when it was practically in the program, there was a grant for agriculture per hectare, for cattle, for many other programs, virtually no amount of government for 2008-2009 was allocated to the village. As Prime Minister of Winnitzkin, the Prime Minister promised to plant a sugar beet by the end of November 750 dollars for the producers. Not a penny for today. In fact, Ukraine is to import for the first time its domestic market for such products as sugar in the following year about 1 million tons. And what I'm saying is, my dear, is that such a disaster has never been heard of by the world. And here's literally the summation of the work of agricultural producers. So cynically and the President of Ukraine, Viktor Andriyovich Yushchenk, and Julius Timoshenko, they closed their eyes to the peasants because it was embarrassing and appreciated the Minister of Agrarian Politics, Hero of Ukraine. But this Hero was handed over to the very end. And when the Palace Hall “Ukraine” was stormed, the president murmured, and instead of giving an explanation, he went and hugged the minister and kissed him. So this cynical behavior of orange politicians once again plunged into the countryside! And I think it's important for these politicians to withdraw their candidacy as presidential candidates in five years. It will be a great gift to Ukraine! Only then will Ukraine be able to advance to a better future life!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u31	The speeches of the Ukrainian national deputies are completed. By order of business, please, Anatoly Sergiyovich, what you have.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u32	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! I'll take care of it. I'm being forced to ask you a question, a problem that doesn't cause political opposition, because it's supported by most factions, but which isn't solved, unfortunately, for over two years. Since March-month 2008, a draft law has been introduced, a draft amendment to the Law on Science and Technology. The essence of these laws is to address the issue of scientific internships and the issue of retirement for people who have a scientific step. But unfortunately, from the session to the session, these laws end and they are not being considered. I'd like to ask your support, I've spoken with most of our factions not to move today's debate, but to include this issue, Law 2166, 2243, 2761 Kulczytsky, 3001 Pavlovski and 3175 Samojlik, tomorrow for an earlier meeting and to consider them in a simplified procedure. [[That's mine.]] They don't require a long discussion, they're understandable. And if it were your will.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u33	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u34	Alexander Volodymyrovich! Put to the vote to include them in tomorrow’s session in the morning and consider the reduced procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u35	Dear colleagues! The National MP, Matvienko, made a proposal concerning four draft laws. Please, Anatoly Sergiyovich, repeat the numbers so I can put your proposal to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u36	They're standing in order for this session. But they're at the end, at the end of December.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u37	Numbers, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u38	2166, 2243, 2761, 3001, 3185.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u39	3001 and the last?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u40	3185. They're not alternatives, and tomorrow we're going to look at them essentially. Request to include them.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u41	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there's a proposal by the people's deputy, Mathviennek, that we include five draft laws for consideration in tomorrow's meeting schedule. The first project to consider tomorrow is Anatoly Sergiyovich, number 2166. I'd like to make a statement. Who's in charge of considering this bill tomorrow? [[10:38:43]] For three hundred Decision taken. This bill is included in tomorrow’s session schedule. The next proposal is draft Law 2243. Please put to the vote the proposal to include draft law 2243 in tomorrow’s agenda. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:39:13]] For-125 Not supported. Draft law 2761. A motion for inclusion in the agenda for tomorrow is put to the vote. 2761 is now voting. [[10:39:35]] For-164 Not supported. A motion for inclusion in the agenda for tomorrow's draft Law 3001 is put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:39:57]] For the 220. Not supported. The motion to include draft Law 3185 in the agenda for tomorrow is put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:40:19]] For-195 The decision is not supported. So tomorrow we're going to include only one of the proposed draft laws, 2166. By factions, please show me. Region Party - 0, Timoshenko Yulia Block - 134, Our Ukraine-People's Self-Defense - 42, Communists - 0, Litvina Block - 17, non-fractional - 2. We go back to the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts. [[on the election of the President of Ukraine]] Please come to the rostrum, Sergio Petrovich Podgorny. Dear colleagues, we stopped at 63 articles. 62nd, we put it to a vote as a whole. And the first amendment voted today to 63 articles is Amendment 127 of the People's Deputies of Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u42	The committee proposes to reject the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u43	Yuri Anatolyevich does not insist? MP Carmazin's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u44	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I'm stressing that we're doing the wrong thing and we're doing the wrong thing, and we're doing the wrong thing, and we're destroying the law. I propose a part of the first article 63 in this paper: “The candidate for the post of President of Ukraine, registered by the Central Electoral Commission, is obliged to publish in the same way for all candidates in the political performance of the Ukrainian State Budget and the Government Courier, a pre-election programme of not more than 12,000 printed signs. [[stressing the word “obliged”]] The agreement on the publication of the marked materials with the newspapers listed is made by the Central Electoral Commission.” Because the word “obliged” here is often needed for candidates as a requirement that they should not be technical candidates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u45	Amendment 127 shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[10:43:03]] For-57 No correction supported. 128. Amendment of the People's Deputy of Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u46	The committee also proposes to reject this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u47	Is the MP not insisting? People's deputy Karmazin's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u48	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National MPs, this is part of the second article 63, which I propose to present in this paper: “The candidate for the post of President of Ukraine, registered by the Central Electoral Commission, at the expense of and within the costs of the State budget of Ukraine, which is allocated for the preparation and conduct of elections, is obliged” to publish in the same way for all candidates in the political and municipal print media of their pre-election program. [[Again, I say "commited"]] The publication agreement with the relevant media is made by the territorial electoral commission listed in part six of article 61 of this Law. The scope and order of use of the printed area allocated by the funds provided for in part nine of article 60 of this Law, providing for a level playing field for candidates, shall be determined by the Central Election Commission.” Thank you, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u49	Amendment 128 shall apply to the vote. [[10:44:37]] For-60 No correction supported. 129. Amendment to this article of the national deputies of Klukkowski, Podgorny, Sinchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u50	Ladies and gentlemen, the committee is proposing to take this amendment into account, and it is writing out a more detailed procedure to prohibit candidates from campaigning for media professionals. So please support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u51	Amendment 129 shall be put to the vote. [[10:45:19]] For-166 No correction supported. Amendment No. 130 of the people's representative of the Hare. Microphone, please, National MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u52	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. Article 64, paragraph 4, of the current law proposes to prohibit public and municipal media agents from campaigning “for” or “against” candidates for the office of President, unless appropriate electoral agreements are concluded. That is, according to articles 61 and 63, and that is correct. But why does this ban extend only to state and municipal media? What else is there in the media? There are, and there are many more. It is very common to hear complaints that many media outlets have lost their independence and are fully controlled by oligarch owners. Clearly, the interest of the media oligarchs is not in the least due to the possibility of using them to their advantage in the electoral process itself. The existing norm here certainly works only for the oligarchs and the political forces they belong to, but it is illegal and unfair. We need fair choices. And candidates for the presidency should have equal opportunities for advocacy. My amendment is designed to ensure that all forms of property have the same rights and obligations. This was the standard that was tested in the elections.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u53	The committee has studied this amendment and is proposing rejections because the bill has written down, in fact, how to achieve a level playing field for all media outlets and candidates.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u54	Amendment 130 of the Hare’s People’s Deputies applies to the vote. [[10:47:07]] For-49 No correction supported. 131. Amendment of the people's representative of the Hare. MP's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u55	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. I propose amendment 131 to exclude from article 64 paragraph 4 the rule on temporary suspension of media activities before the election process is concluded by a decision of the court for violation of electoral legislation. In accordance with this rule, the CTC or the KLA make a court appearance. This is done in the event of a violation of the media requirements of this article. I propose a standard that has already been tested in the elections to parliament in 2006-2007, and I remind you, National MPs, that this rule has been introduced into the Law on Elections of Ukrainian People's Deputies after many public debates with experts on freedom of speech and media activities. The point of my amendment is that the court decides to suspend the licence or suspend the election process for the release of the printed edition on the basis of the establishment by a court of gross violation of the law. As you can see, my standard does not allow anyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u56	Please, Sergey Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u57	The committee has studied this amendment and the committee suggests that it be taken into account, it is indeed right, so we need to.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u58	Amendment 131 of the Hare’s People’s Deputies is subject to a vote. [[10:48:47]] For-164 No correction supported. 132. Amendment of the people's representative of the Hare. MP's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u59	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. By this amendment, I propose to clarify the rule on the right to reply to the President's office in the event that the media has published information which the President's candidate clearly considers to be unreliable. Again, I did not invent anything new, but I used the same rule of the Ukrainian People's Deputies Election Act, which was tested during the 2006-2007 elections. I am convinced that the rules of the Law on Elections of People's Deputies, which are much more democratic than the existing Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine, should go to the last further improvement, or in whatever way they are. In my amendment, it is proposed that we establish an institution of the right of reply, not an institution of dissuasion. Besides, I give three days for a candidate, not for the media.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u60	The committee would like it to be edited and edited in the right column.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u61	132 amendments to the vote. [[10:50:12]] Z-87 Correction not supported. This was the last amendment to article 63. I'm betting on voting on article 63 in the first reading as a whole. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:50:34]] For the 180. Article is not supported. The following article, to which are the amendments, 64. Restrictions on the conduct of pre-election agitation. Amendment No. 133 of the People's Deputies of Klukkowski, Podgorny, Sinchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u62	The committee suggests that this amendment be taken into account. She will explain the items discussed in this article. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u63	Amendment No. 133 shall be put to the vote. [[10:51:16]] For-98 No correction supported. The following amendment is made by the 134 people’s representative of the Hare. MP's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u64	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. The Act on Elections of the President of Ukraine, article 64, part fifteen, prohibits the use of administrative resources in the conduct of pre-election agitation. But for whom? Only for presidential candidates and only for those who hold positions in state enterprises, institutions and institutions. Thus, the law actually allows the administration of enterprises, institutions, organizations to all other persons: entrusted persons, election headquarters managers. Can only candidates for the presidency use the administrative resources? Practice has shown that this is usually done by his trusted staff chiefs and others. Unless the use of unlimited resources by non-state enterprises, organizations, institutions, such as banks, private corporations, is such a vicious violation of the principles of equal rights as abuse by public and municipal enterprises. Have we forgotten as employees of enterprises that we forced three nine countries to go around and spin carousels, that is, to vote for a number of hardliners in a number of polling stations. My amendment prohibits the use of administrative resources by any enterprise, institution.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u65	The committee proposes to reject this amendment. Well, first of all, we don't have hard evidence in this law anymore, and they won't work.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u66	134 amendments to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:52:56]] For-65 No correction supported. Next amendment 135 of the Karmazin People’s Deputy. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u67	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, with this amendment, I am talking about introducing the same requirements to the employees of all the bodies funded by the State Budget of Ukraine, which will be the basis for avoiding the purposeless use of budgetary resources. I propose a part of the 15th in article 64 to put it this way. “The candidates for the post of President of Ukraine who hold positions, including in conjunction, in the authorities of the State or local self-government in state or municipal enterprises, in institutions, institutions, organizations, military units, formations established in accordance with the laws of Ukraine, shall be prohibited from engaging in pre-election campaigns or any work associated with the conduct of pre-election agitation of persons, officials and officials of public authorities, local self-government bodies, state or municipal enterprises and institutions, institutions, organizations, military formations established in accordance with the laws of Ukraine or those financed under the State Budget or local self-government bodies, service transport. [[Underlining the State authorities]]
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u68	The committee proposes to reject this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u69	Amendment 135 of the Karmazin People’s Deputies applies to the vote. [[10:54:39]] For-67 Correction not supported. This was the last amendment to article 64. The article in the first reading reads the vote. [[10:55:01]] For-79 Not supported. The next article, to which are the proposals, is the 68th official observer. Amendment 136 of People's Deputies Pisarenko. Please, it's the people's MP's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u70	This amendment is included. It's an amendment to 169.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u71	Dear colleagues, I ask you to support this amendment. What are we talking about? So today, we've given the law the right to conduct film, photographing what's going to happen at the site. But we forgot one thing. That one of the common methods of falsification is when really photo and video are used to determine how people actually vote, how they get out, how they throw the ballot. So we had an offer to give the right to use a fixation only if it didn't break the secret of the letter. And in case that happens in the area, you can stop these photos and videos right away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u72	The committee supports the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u73	Amendment 136 of the Passarenko People’s Deputies shall be subject to a vote. [[10:56:30.]] For a-117. No correction supported. 137 amendment of the People's Chamber of Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u74	The amendment is also included. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u75	Amendment 137 of the People’s Deputies Pisarenko is subject to a vote. [[10:57:03]] For-123 No correction supported. 138 Amendment of the People’s Deputies of Klukkowski, Podgorno, Sinchenka
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u76	The committee also suggests that the amendment be taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u77	Amendment 138 shall apply to the vote. [[10:57:31]] For-98 No correction supported. The next 139 amendments to the people’s deputies of Klukkowski, Podgorny, Sinchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u78	The committee also suggests that the amendment be taken into account. It's purely editorial. The phrase “the next day” is replaced by “the second day”.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u79	Amendment No. 139 shall be put to the vote. [[10:58:07]] For 112 Not supported. 140 amendment of the People's Chamber of Pisarenko. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u80	The committee took this amendment into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u81	Yes, the committee supported the amendment. It's also about how much information we give to observers from public organizations. And we've ruled out the issue of providing documents on the outcome of the election of the final president. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u82	Amendment 140 of the People’s Deputies Pisarenko is to vote. [[10:58:51]] For 115 No correction supported. Dear colleagues, there have been no amendments to the 68 articles. I put to the vote the wording of article 68 in the edition of the first reading of the vote. Please make up your mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u83	It was adopted in the first reading and there were no amendments. Why vote again?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u84	I'd like to make up my mind. [[10:59:21]] For 1052 Not supported. There is now a vote on article 69, to which all the amendments are considered. I'd like to make up my mind. [[10:59:42]] For 109 Article is not supported and removed from the law. From the procedure, please log in. National MP Zvaric, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u85	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, this is the second day I've been watching what we're doing here in this room, and you're referring to some document that you think gives you the legitimate right to conduct such a voting procedure. I would still ask you to name that document and tell me when it did take effect and whether it did not become effective. I am, of course, talking about the decision of the Constitutional Court, which has very clearly pointed out to all of us that this document to which you refer, which bears the title “The Supreme Council of Ukraine Regulation”, has already been declared unconstitutional. So basically my procedural question is what we're doing.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u86	National MP Pisarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u87	Dear colleagues, so that we don't turn our activities into what Rules we've been working on right now, we're really working on this document that we've been working on for the past few years. There is a standard, and for today, if we want to wait for the law to take effect, then let's stop the activity and wait. If we're working under the Rules, we need to understand that we're now at the 140th Amendment. In doing so, all of the preceding articles in the law have already been expelled, since no article has been voted on with you. And we really understand that we're about to come to the end of the law, that it's not actually going to be, we're not going to vote for anything at the end. This will mean that in the end it will certainly be a law that for its importance and absurdity its adoption will not have equal. So let us honor the end of this law and, if we muster our strength, send for the second reading again; if not, let us turn to listening to other legislative acts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u88	Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u89	Dear Alexander Vladimirovich! Dear colleagues! I think we went perfectly in the process of enacting the law when the proposal of deputies was supported. In view of the importance of the law to put every article, every proposal to the vote room, so that we do not have to be returned as dozens of laws, because they have stressed what is not on the head, the lawyers cannot end with an end, stylistically trim the law to sign Mr. Litwin. And then we start making things up in the hall again. Today, we are seriously, thoroughly discussing every article, every amendment, and what we will get on the way out, we will get. But that would be an objective reality when every MP had the right to make an argument. And each of us deliberately exercised the voting button: “yes” or “no”. At the end of the day, the claims will not be for anyone, they will only be for the authors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u90	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u91	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies! We're spending state time, we're spending money. Roman Zvaric told you quite correctly: what are you doing now, why are you turning all the meetings into a farce? You are governed by the repealed decision, the Rules and the repealed Rules Act. On November 26, I emphasize, November 26 – here is the decision of the Constitutional Court: “The unconstitutionality of the Constitution is the unconstitutional Organization, Order of Activities Act and the Supreme Council Rules of 19 September 2008. And they have ceased to be valid since the Constitutional Court passed this decision. So yesterday I suggested: “Come on, ladies and gentlemen, let us make a decree on the provisional Rules, on certain mandatory standards. You don't want to do that, and now you're taking a bill based on non-existent standards. Mr. Chechetov, please, it may be now.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u92	The conversation is over. Dear colleagues, of course, we have the opportunity to stop the plenary meetings and not hold them until the Supreme Council approves a new regulation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. But we have direct constitutional norms that envisioned the authorization of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the means of making decisions. And every decision is made in the session room, in this room by the personal vote of the Ukrainian people's deputies. Therefore, if there is such a desire for me to put to the vote a motion for me to stop the plenary meetings before the new Rules are adopted, I can do so. Is there such an offer? There is such an offer. The National MP Carmazin insists on such an offer. The proposal of the People’s Deputy Karmazin to suspend the plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to approve a new edition of the Rules is put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:05:34]] For-29 There is no support for the proposal of the national deputy Karmazin. We're continuing our work. Amendment number 141. [[B in m in s a l in]] Amendment 141 to article 70 — official observers from foreign nations, international organizations. Correction of the People's Chamber of Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u93	Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u94	Sergey Petrovich, first the MP, then you. People's MP Pisarenko's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u95	It's the same norm, but it already applies to observers from foreign states and international organizations, because we're going to have very democratic rules about photography and video. Well, it's quite clear that we're already in this law, I don't think we can sort it out, but I'd like us to keep an eye on it anyway. Because it's true. As in that song, yes, “what progress has been made”. And we actually have this progress that can be very much adjusted by the results of the elections. So we're going to need this question, in fact, either at the level of CBC, or at the level of other arrangements already, to adjust so that we don't have to turn, the polling stations didn't actually turn into shoots for the new film about the election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u96	Please, Sergey Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u97	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters, have considered this amendment to the committee. But I want to say this for half a minute. At the outset, I emphasized that the committee had been working for several days. At first, there was a working group, there were no objections from either the representatives of the Party of Regions or representatives of other factions who are not voting here today. Moreover, there were no objections from the authors. True, after almost a decision had been made, one of the authors of the Party of Regions recalled all the amendments that had been made before. And so I would like to point out that the question of overthrowing this bill was decided, not in this room, but outside this room, and it was decided by the candidate who thinks he is the President in this country. This will not be the case, no matter what law the election takes. And the last thing I want to say is, whoever offered to go after every correction today didn't say a word after every correction. Not by one! No explanation, no objection. And more than that, I would like to say that this is the first time in my mind that Parliament is considering the law in the second reading of such a procedure. Moreover, yesterday, when the State Register Bill was considered, there was also no such procedure. And it seems to me that whoever presides today, if he presided in 98, would be a completely different chairman. Today, a completely different chairman is working, not on democratic principles, but on others, on authoritarian ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u98	Well, I'm actually surprised at your sleep. I'll give you this book so you can read it. When you go to the rostrum to at least understand that there is a parliamentary procedure, and if the national MPs have spoken for it, the decision is taken by the session room, not by the individual MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u99	The procedure is used or continuously.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u100	Turn off the tribune microphone. Please perform the function entrusted to you by the committee. Amendment 141 of Pisarenko’s People’s Deputies applies to voting. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:09:20]] For-79 Offer not supported. To this same article, amendment No. 142 of the People’s Deputy Pisarenko. May I have the mic of the People's Deputy Pisarenko?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, my proposal was that we, at the same time as the idea of amending the Elections Act, would not make a new law, because the process is already in place and it is almost over. So the next amendment I proposed to rule out a consideration that, in my opinion, is too flexible to deal with some of the situations that might significantly change the procedure during the vote. The committee didn't count it. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u102	Please, Sergey Petrovich. Amendment No. 142 shall apply to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:10:22]] For-90 No correction supported. This was the last amendment to the 70th article. Article 70, as adopted in the first reading, deals with voting as a whole. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:10:44]] For-86 This article is not supported. The next amendment is 143. National MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u103	Dear colleagues! This amendment provides for the harmonization of provisions for the production of ballot papers. That is to say, it conforms to the People's Deputies Elections Act, so that we have all the procedures that are going on more or less equally. The committee has taken this amendment into account, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u104	The following amendments are made to article 71, which is called the Election Bulletin. Amendment 143 of the People’s Deputy of the Horn is subject to a vote. [[11:11:40]] For 118 No correction supported. 144 Amendments to the People’s Deputies of Klukkowski, Podgorny, Sinchenka Sergei Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u105	I'm looking. The committee has taken this amendment into account, we ask, also to support it. The word “response” is replaced by “restraint”, which is a more correct word.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u106	Amendment 144 shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:12:41]] For-69 No correction supported. Puts to the vote the whole article 71 in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u107	The committee's asking for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u108	[[11:13:02]] For-90 This article is not supported. The following article, which is amended, is 74. It is referred to as “the voting room”. Amendment 145 of People's Deputies Pisarenko. People's MP's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u109	One of the problems in the law that we have stressed as the authors of the amendments is that, in fact, individual articles have changed completely, despite the fact that the process has begun and major changes have not been needed by any article or article. The same was true with regard to this article, when it was properly regulated already in the previous law that is in force today. And in my opinion, she didn't need any change. So I suggested that we rule out those proposals that were in the President's bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u110	The committee had something to do with another philosophy. We thought that the Presidential Elections Act 2004 was completely imperfect and, more than that, he had just committed a lot of violations in that part. And that's why we tried to bring, once again, the law to those norms that worked in 2006-2007 and were more constructive. Thus, this amendment and the following are rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u111	145. The amendment of the People's Deputy Pisarenko is in effect. Take down the vote. Please, the microphone of the People's Deputy Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u112	I want the session halls to know that it's about the fact that the Central Electoral Commission doesn't have to make stationary election boxes. These reusable boxes, the term used there for more than 10 years, can be used for up to 20 years because they were made from special plastic materials in 2004. And there's no need for extra material costs. So in this part, I think we can leave the right standard of action. As for the first reading rule, it takes into account the exact moment that the ballot box should be located so that the person passing the ballot box could immediately enter the ballot box. Not that we had to go after that, because the election box next to the members of the election committee, and every member of the election committee wants to see how the person who made his will in the election booth has broken the secret ballot. Therefore, the standard of first reading must be abandoned because it radically affects the integrity of the electoral process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u113	Amendment 145 of the People’s Deputies of Pisarenko is subject to a vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:15:52]] For-63 Not supported. 146 amendment of the People's Chamber of Pisarenko. MP's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u114	This amendment refers to one of the proposals of the Venice Commission that stressed that electoral legislation should be as informative as possible in elections. What are we talking about? On the day of the vote, there should be as much information as possible on what changes have taken place, including among the candidates. That is why the proposal was to complement 74 with the words that “information materials of the selected candidates for the post of President for which there were cancellations and information materials should also be available to people at the polling station”. So this proposal from the Venice Commission was implemented as proposals and amendments to the law, and we asked for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u115	Please, Sergey Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u116	The committee proposes to reject this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u117	Amendment 146 of the People’s Deputies Pisarenko is subject to a vote. [[11:17:12]] For-50 No correction supported. The editing of the changes to article 74 in the first reading is a vote, please identify yourself. [[11:17:34]] For-73 Changes to this article are not supported. The next article is “Preparation for election day”. 147 amendment of the People's Chamber of Pisarenko. Please, it's the people's MP's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u118	This is the next amendment that I've made to show that today the legislation that works, it's actually already formed and allows elections to be held. The accumulation of other norms proposed in the President's draft is now unnecessary and irrelevant. So in my amendment, I asked to cancel and delete draft paragraph 20 of section one of the draft legislation in the first reading. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u119	Please, Sergey Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u120	We think the other way around. We believe that the voting day procedure in the new edition is better written and more democratic and does not allow abuse to take place. And the old procedure allowed that, and 2004 was an example. So we rejected this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u121	Dear colleagues, we are now looking at the amendments not in the 2004 law, but in the 2009 edition, just to get you started, this is the law that was passed in this room. The 147th Amendment of the People's Deputies of Pisarenko is a vote, please be determined. [[11:19:04]] For-60 Not supported. 148. Amendment of the People's Deputy of the Underworld.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u122	Dear colleagues, this amendment is proposed by the Central Electoral Commission and refers to the term of informing the electorate of the time, the place of the vote. The committee took her into account and asked for the support of the hall as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u123	Amendment 148 of the People's Deputies of the Horn is subject to a vote, please be determined. [[11:19:44]] For-66 No correction supported. 149. Amendment of the People’s Deputies of Klukkowski, Podgorny, Sinchenka
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u124	The committee took this amendment into account and asked her to support it. There's a more detailed procedure that the head should do and that sort of thing. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u125	Amendment 149 shall apply to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:20:19]] For-58 No correction supported. The text of the amendments to article 75 in the first reading, which was adopted as a whole, is put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:20:40]] For-63 These changes are not supported. The following amendments to the 76th article will be organized and voted on. Amendment No. 150 of the People's Deputies of Klukkowski, Podgorno, Sinchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u126	The committee also considered this amendment. It's also more detailed and more substantial, writing out the voting day procedure that it's doing. A commission that issues an electoral ballot, as it goes on and on. Please support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u127	Amendment 150 shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:21:28]] Z-71 No correction supported. This was the only amendment to this article. Article 76 in the edition of the first reading deals with voting as a whole. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:21:55]] For-72 This article is not supported. The next article, to which are the changes, is the order of the voting organisation outside the voting room. Amendment 171 of People's Deputies Pisarenko. People's MP's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u128	In these proposals it was about voting outside the voting room. Today we have the right of a citizen to vote outside the constituency, to file an application, if I'm not mistaken, almost a day before the vote. That is, the district should organise such a vote. Indeed, such a term is almost unrealistic in order to organize voting outside the district, and this can put the district election commission in a troubled, awkward position. So we suggested that the last day and the last moment when a person would make a statement that he wanted to vote was not within the constituency, for 20 hours on the last Friday before the election day. The committee supported such a proposal. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u129	Dear voters, dear colleagues, I would like to draw attention to which parts of the electoral process were more than just forgeries. First. Changes to the voter list on election day. They asked for correction. It didn't work out with your help today. The other one. Voting at home. Also, the law, which allowed 12 hours before the start of the vote, later came what should be done, not within 12 hours, but at least within days, that is, at the end of Friday. And that's why we took this amendment into account. The only thing that's worked out is that there's no hard-core evidence in the bill. It was also a third area where there were so many forgeries. I'm asking you to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u130	151 The amendment of the People’s Deputy Pisarenko is a vote. [[11:24:19]] Z-85 Not supported. 152. Amendment of the People's Deputy of Podgorny.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u131	The committee has also taken this amendment into account and we ask that it be supported, and it applies to the entire procedure of voting outside the office, the so-called home voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u132	152. The amendment of the People’s Deputy of the Horn shall be put to the vote. [[11:24:52]] For-74. No correction supported. 150. There is no correction number here. But there is a registration card of 305, the national deputy of Hare Ivan Aleksandrovich. Ah, there's amendment number 350. No, there's no number. See, on page 104, the first amendment on the top of the new 77 - article proposes the national parliament of the Hare. May I have the MP's microphone, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u133	John the Rabbit. The procedure for preparing and organising the vote for the voter's seat, the so-called home voting. There has been a very serious criticism during the 2004 elections in connection with the possibility of mass abuse. Therefore, the improvement of voting procedures outside the voting room was one of the key tasks of the Law on the Specificity of the Implementation of the Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine during the re-vote on 26 December 2004, as well as subsequent amendments to all the electoral laws in 2005 in 2007. In the current law, even the lack of a novel norm would reflect the established practice of many electoral processes. A separate procedure is meant to ensure the right to vote that voters are constantly unable to move on their own. There is a matching tag in the voter list, getting it out of the voter list without any additional applications, etc. My amendment is similar to the standards set out in the Law on the Election of Ukrainian National Deputies. And I want to make a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u134	Please finish the argument.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u135	I would like to state that if we do not accept my amendment, article 77 will be contrary to the preceding articles, where it is stated that in the nomination for such voters it will be said that they will vote at home, but in the 77th article of the current law it is that they should write a further statement. So my amendment normalizes all of these processes and makes this process transparent and aimed at ensuring the rights of those people who cannot vote for the place to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u136	Please, the microphone of the People's Deputy Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u137	Dear colleagues, in support of John Alexanderovich, I want to say that this amendment is really crucial in this law. If we don't accept this amendment, we're leaving a huge gateway to possibly distort people's will. We remember the situation. Because a valid law, both in the fourth and the one adopted in the ninth, leaves the possibility of voting outside the office only on the basis of a voter’s statement. We've had cases where, in certain areas of the plague, the epidemic before the second round of voting took place, and 30 percent of the people were currently ill, and everyone voted in favour of one candidate at home. I assure you that they will now abuse other flu epidemics, AIDS and so on, but this kind of thing cannot be allowed. This is our responsibility with you. If we truly, sincerely and responsibly want to responsibly correct the law in order to prevent all possibilities of falsification, we need to start with this amendment. If we avoid it, then we are not sincere. Then it should be fair to say that the purpose of this kind of ossification is to show the actual process, not the result. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u138	The committee supports this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u139	The amendment of the Hare’s national deputy on page 104, which gives a new version of article 77, is subject to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:28:50]] For 106 No correction supported. This last amendment was to 77 articles. The 77th article deals with the vote in the first reading. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:29:18]] Z-85 Changes to this article are not supported. The next article is “The order of the vote in the polling station”. First amendment to this article by the 153rd People's Deputies of Pisarenko. Please, it's the people's MP's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u140	This amendment also referred to proposals that actually introduced new articles in the new edition, some new articles. In my view, the law in force regulates this procedure and requires no change. So my suggestion was to rule out the introduction of articles 78, 79 in the new edition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u141	The committee proposes to reject this amendment. The committee made, took into account the following amendment, which further improves the procedure for the final session of the electoral commission to prevent counterfeiting.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u142	Amendment 153 of the People’s Deputy Pisarenko is subject to a vote. [[11:30:38]] Z-91 No correction supported. 154. Amendment of the People’s Deputies of Klukkowski, Podgorny, Sinchenka
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u143	The committee suggests that this amendment be taken into account. It really improves the procedure for the final session of the commission, the drafting of the protocol and the protocol is proposed in such a way that there are several steps that allow verification whether there has been falsification during the drafting of the protocol or not. So please support this amendment. Very important.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u144	Amendment 154 shall apply to the vote. [[11:31:29]] For-80 No correction supported. Next amendment number 155 of the people's representative of the Hare. MP's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u145	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. The proposed bill provides for a review of allegations of violations that occurred during the voting in the polling station. I propose to replace the word of the statement with the word of the complaint. Because the procedure for examining applications is not provided for by law at all. Instead, articles 91-98 of the law often, clearly and in detail, regulate the procedure for handling complaints. It would seem to be a trifle. In fact, she's capable of confusing any commission. Because she's going to have to look for answers to questions about the order in which to consider these statements, what decisions to make, and so on. And there is no answer in the law to these questions. So this is exactly what my correction does. This is a novelty when the word “application” appeared, not “cargo”.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u146	The committee supports this amendment and the next 156. A fair offer, indeed, to be named complaints, but there may also be claims.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u147	Amendment No. 155 shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:33:01]] For-72 No correction supported. 156 Amendment of the People’s Deputies of Klukkowski, Podgorny, Sinchenka
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u148	I already said, please consider this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u149	Amendment No. 156 shall be put to the vote. [[11:33:26]] For-76 No correction supported. 157. Amendment of the People's Deputies of Pisarenko. MP's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u150	The point is that in the legislation and in the way it works, and in the previous law, thanks to the authors of these changes and the Supreme Council, which passed this law after that, we finally gave up the hard evidence, and to this day it was positively accepted by the whole world. Europe gave a positive assessment, and the Venice Commission separately thanked Ukraine for abandoning the institution. And unfortunately, there's been such a sad mistake there, and there's only a link left in the text to the hard evidence that needs to be removed. That was why the offer was doing such a good job. Thank you, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u151	The committee took this proposal into account and asked for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u152	157 amendments to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:34:44]] Z-91 Offer not supported. 158 amendment of the People's Chamber of Pisarenko. Please, Sergey Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u153	You said the author first, and now you're saying, "please, Sergey Petrovich." You'll figure it out!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u154	Sergey Petrovich, if the National MP doesn't consider it necessary to make an argument on my amendment, I'm asking you to express the view of the committee. Is that clear to you?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u155	I'm afraid I don't know if he believes it or not. If the author has nothing to say, I want to say that the committee has taken this text correction into account in the parts that are shown in the table.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u156	158 The amendment of the People’s Deputy Pisarenko is a vote. [[11:35:51]] For-73 No correction supported. This was the last amendment to the 78th article. The article in the first reading reads a general vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:36:16]] For-80 The article is not supported, it is deleted from the text of the law. 79 Article – “Protocol of the electoral committee on the counting of votes”. 159. Amendment of the people's representative of the Hare. Please, it's the people's MP's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u157	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. My amendment is aimed at solving the question of the legitimacy of the protocol of the electoral committee to calculate the voter votes in the constituency. The drafting of article 79, paragraph 4, of the current law actually allows and even encourages the application of raiding methods by signing it with a meagre but organized minority of members of the commission and the “no” factory in quotes from the signature of other members of the commission. As a result, there are completely real threats to the existence of several versions of a protocol on counting votes with different numbers and according to different variants of the signatures and signatories of these protocols. It is possible to falsify these protocols by setting clear and unambiguous criteria for the validity of protocols that would not, in principle, allow for the use of manipulation technologies by signing them by non-signatories. With my amendment, I propose that the protocol be legitimate if it has been signed by the number of members of the commission necessary for the decision to be taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u158	Complete the argument, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u159	This must be more than half of the commission. It is not excluded that each representative of the candidate will write his/her protocol stating that the other members of the commission refused to sign. And all of these protocols are going to be real. That's why I'm asking you to accept my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u160	Please, Sergey Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u161	The committee proposes to reject this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u162	159 amendments, the people’s representative of the Hare, are put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:38:27]] For-53 No correction supported. 160 amendment, People's Deputy Carmazin. Please, it's the people's MP's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u163	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, we remember what a sad role the protocols have played with the following reference: “accurate” -- which arose on the way from the commission to the Central Electoral Commission. In order to make it legal, I propose that article 79 should be supplemented by part 6.1 of the following content: “Protocol number 1 is an integral appendix to the protocol marked “specified. ” I would like to remind you that this is written “specified”, the term “specified” in the current law. “The protocol marked ‘specified’ without Protocol No. 1 has no legal force”. This is what I ask all of you: the left, the right, the loved ones, to vote, because this may refer to a loved one. They will write "accurate" – and these requirements will not be met. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u164	The committee proposes to reject this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u165	Amendment No. 160 of the Karmazin People’s Deputies applies to the vote. [[11:40:04]] Z-62 No correction supported. 161. Amendment of the People's Deputy of Carmazin. Please, it's the people's MP's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u166	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that article 79 be completed in part 7.1. The Secretary of the Electoral Commission shall, without delay after the signing of the vote summary protocol within the constituency, produce copies of the minutes, including if a copy of the protocol is available with the note “accurated”, which shall be indicated by the head and the secretary of the electoral commission and shall be stamped by the Commission, in the number corresponding to the number of candidates to the Presidents of Ukraine. Make sure everyone gets it. Next, second. It provides a copy of a copy of the Secretary of the District Electoral Commission, which remains with him, according to one copy of the certified protocol, including the note “accurated”, entrusted to each candidate of the Presidents of Ukraine. This is the approach that I think will ensure Ukraine from falsifying these protocols, and we will never talk about it, we will not have to prove anything in court. Thank you. Please support this one.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u167	So the committee believes that the text adopted on the first reading is well written and has therefore rejected these amendments that apply to this particular chapter.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u168	161. The amendment of the People’s Deputy Karmazin is a vote. [[11:41:52]] For-64 No correction supported. 162. Amendment of the People's Deputy of Carmazin. MP's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u169	Yuri Carmazin. The point of the amendment is that in part eight of article 79, I propose to do so. To the official observers, I would like you to mention, please, all the elections that they request are immediately issued as a copy of a copy of the protocol, including a copy of the “accurated” report, certified by the head, the secretary of the electoral commission, and stamped by the accounting commission, no more than one copy of each official observer protocol.” Ladies and gentlemen, it may be that we do not now vote in favour of many of the rules of this law, they will lose power, and the official observers will have to see, and the candidates, and their trusted persons will also have to have these protocols in hand to ensure falsification. I urge you to vote for this rule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u170	I've already commented on this amendment at the last amendment and the next amendment as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u171	162. The amendment of the People’s Deputy Karmazin is a vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:43:26]] For-47 No correction supported. 163. Amendment of the People's Deputy of Carmazin. MP's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u172	Yuri Carmazin. Dear national deputies, I propose to make changes and to write part of article 79 in such an editorial. “Packages with the minutes of the electoral committee on the voter voter voter's voter's voter's voter's voter's voter's voter's voter's voter's voter turnouts, ballots, statements, complaints, decisions adopted by the commission, and copies of the minutes of the electoral committee which were not received by the candidates entrusted to the President of Ukraine in these committees with a reference to the need for a local electoral commission to be handed down to the trustee of that candidate in the President of Ukraine, whose trustee in the electoral commission was not delivered immediately after the meeting of the commission.” In my view, this standard is absolutely democratic and provides full control over everything that is going on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u173	Amendment No. 163 of the Karmazin People’s Deputies applies to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:44:58]] Z-62 No correction supported. The voting is the editing of the changes to article 79 in the edition of the first reading as a whole. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:45:23]] For-49 Not supported. The following amendment is made by 164 People’s Deputies of Pisarenko. MP's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u174	Dear colleagues! Dear members of the committee! You know, the amendments are always something to say. And so I ask you to pay attention to what the amendment authors say. My next amendment referred to what we need to do in sufficient detail to all that is written in the President's Bill. For example, with his proposal, the President wrote that the secretary of the commission and other members of the committee who do not accompany the documentation that is being exported should be in the territory, in the premises, even in the district election commission and not go anywhere. So, if, excuse me, someone's going to be able to go somewhere, it's going to be a violation of the law. The other one. It seems to me that we have such a restriction only on places of deprivation of liberty, not on members of the district election boards. So I would suggest, nevertheless, that these people be freed from this burden and allowed to leave the room when they are allowed to do so and how they exercise the right rights, in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u175	Dear colleagues! This is the standard proposed by the author, I mean the first reading, she did her homework in 2006-2007. And let us present with you when the protocol of the district commission is not accepted by the district election committee and we need to immediately return to the district and find out something and correct it and make another protocol. And the members of the district commission, especially if they are in the area, will be away by now, when will they meet for a new meeting? So here I may agree that a different edition would have to be given, as a rule, not in the room, but just in the constituency, but in order for the members of the commission not to depart. Therefore, the committee suggests that this amendment be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u176	164 amendments to the People’s Deputies of Pisarenko are made to the vote. [[11:48:02]] For-40 No correction supported. Article 80 in the edition of the first reading deals with voting as a whole. I'd like to make a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u177	The committee's asking for support. [[11:48:23]] For-44
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u178	Not supported. Article 81 – “Measuring the transport and transmission of documents to the District Electoral Commission” refers to voting as a whole in the first reading. [[11:48:48]] For-52 This article is not supported. Deleted from the text of the law. The next amendment to article 82 - 165 is an amendment. National MP Pisarenko. Please, Sergey Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u179	The committee proposes to reject this amendment and to leave the text that was adopted in the first reading, taking into account amendment 166.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u180	Amendment No. 165 shall be put to the vote. [[11:49:36]] For-38 No correction supported. 166 revisions. The people's representative of the Hare. Please, Sergey Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u181	The committee suggests that this amendment be taken into account. I will say, here the author proposes that not only the “head” be written, but also the “head” in parentheses. Because it may be that on election day the head, of course, will not go to a meeting, then someone else will preside. So you have to write it this way.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u182	166. The amendment of the people’s representative of the Hare shall be put to the vote. [[11:50:24]] For-50 No correction supported. 167 amendment of the people's representative of the Hare, please, microphone of the MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u183	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian National Party. The process of establishing the voting summary within the territorial constituency contains very lengthy procedures for the adoption of a protocol by the District Electoral Commission, the electoral electoral committees on the calculation of voter votes and other electoral documentation. The most difficult place for the adoption process is, first of all, reading the head of the CCW protocol. The law of law requires that the protocol read the head itself. Whether this standard can be implemented physically if all protocol items are to be read. For the KLA, even with an average number of polling stations, 160 total continuous reading of the protocol will be 1,000 600 minutes or 27 hours. For a district election commission with a number of polling stations, 300 takes 50 hours, almost two hours continuously. A reasonable shortening of the notification time at an environmental meeting of the protocol information is of paramount importance. That's why I'm proposing to introduce standards so that these procedures can be reduced.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u184	The committee on this amendment, named 167, proposes to reject it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u185	Amendment No. 167 of the Hare’s People’s Deputies shall be subject to a vote. [[11:52:00]] For-51 No correction supported. 168 Amendment of the People’s Deputies of Klukkowski, Podgorno, Sinchenka
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u186	A similar amendment is proposed so that not only the head but also the deputy head can open the package that comes to the district election committee and carry out other procedures.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u187	168 amendments to the vote, please specify. [[11:52:35.]] For-46 No correction supported. 169. Amendment of the people's representative of the Hare. MP's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u188	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. The draft edition of article 82, part 8, provides for an examination of the complaint of a violation of the vote only if it is confirmed by a violation act and effectively excludes confirmation of the complaint from other evidence. For example, such evidence may be legitimate, with all the appropriate props, signatures, and seals, another copy of the protocol on the counting of votes, but with completely different information. I can tell you that in the 2004 election in the 200th constituency, where I was the trusted person of Victor Yushchenk, we caught this fake on the basis of other protocols and seals and signatures. What further act is needed in this case to confirm if everything is obvious and the KLA is obliged to assign you in this account a recalculation of the voter votes in this polling station. That is why I want this norm to exist, so that there is an opportunity to prove it in different ways, not to drive it into the "Prokrust Lodge".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u189	Dear colleagues, the committee proposes to reject this amendment. We are very careful about the word "other": other conditions, other evidence, other cases. As they say, there is the word “others” and immediately there are some such conditions to falsify something. That is why we believe that or should have given a clear list of these possible evidences, but still the words “others” should not be used. The committee's proposing a rejection.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u190	Amendment 169 shall be put to the vote. [[11:54:27]] For-34 No correction supported. Next, 170 amendments to the People's Deputies of Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u191	Yuri Carmazin. Amendment 170. I propose that article 82 be supplemented by part 13.1 of the following content: “Protocol number 1 is an integral appendix to the protocol marked “specified”, this protocol marked “specified” without protocol number 1 has no legal force”. You realize that something is being clarified, it has to be clearly written. And previous experience, when it was discovered that these protocols had been produced for a long time and had been falsified. This experience must be forgotten once and for all. So, honourable national MPs, I ask you to support this amendment, vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u192	Dear colleagues, the committee has unfortunately rejected this amendment, and my personal opinion is that it is heard.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u193	Amendment No. 170 shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:55:47]] For-47 No correction supported. Article 82 as a whole is set out in the first reading. [[11:56:08]] For-40 Such changes to article 82 are not supported. Next, article 83, 171 amendment, national representative of the Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u194	What is the correction?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u195	171 amendment of the people's representative of the Hare, next.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u196	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. We have already considered a similar amendment for this purpose. What's this all about? This is about how to establish the legitimacy of the district election committee's protocol for the voter voter polling. I propose that the protocol should be signed by at least half of the commission. The current norm allows you to sign a protocol, well, an undetermined circle of people. There may be a situation where even two members of the commission will sign and write that others have refused to sign this protocol and this protocol will be valid. So there's going to be a big confusion. And that's why I'm also proposing a requirement for those who don't sign such protocols. So I think this is a very important standard.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u197	Well, the committee thinks the editorial is even more clear on the first reading. It looks like it's written in here. That the protocol is signed by the head, alternate, secretary, and other members of the district commission present at the meeting. And there is another sentence, a member of the district election committee present at the meeting is obliged to sign a protocol. That's why there can't be a half decision here. It may be a special thought, but it's a protocol.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u198	Amendment 171 shall apply to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:58:07]] For-47 No correction supported. 172. Amendment of the People's Deputy of Carmazin. The MP's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u199	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, it is unfortunate that we have not supported the democratic amendment of our democratic Hare. Article 83 is proposed to be supplemented by this: the secretary of the territorial electoral commission shall, as soon as received from the electoral commission, transmit a report on the voter vote in the polling station of the person entrusted to the President who has not been served on the electoral commission. And immediately after the signing of the vote summary protocol within the territorial constituency, the presh produces copies of the protocol, including the presence of a markedly clarified one, which is certified by the head and the secretary of the territorial electoral commission and is stamped with the seal of the commission in number or corresponding to the number of candidates to the President of Ukraine. And the second. Issued under schedule. a copy of the secretary of the territorial electoral commission, which remains with him by one copy of the certified protocol, including a note “accurated” to the trusted person of each candidate to the Presidents. Please support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u200	Dear colleagues, the committee proposes to reject this amendment. The fact is that a trusted person is, in principle, entitled to receive a protocol from each district election commission, but this is not necessarily done on a district commission. Not theoretically, but practically. For this, there are official observers at each site, if that's a candidate.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u201	Amendment No. 172 of the Karmazin People’s Deputies applies to the vote. [[12:00:00]] For-39 No correction supported. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u202	We continue our morning plenary session. Sergey Petrovich, please go to the rostrum. We've stopped at Amendment 173, National Deputy Carmazin. Please, the MP's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u203	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies, we've been reduced since the break, but I'm still asking you to focus and vote for the addition and modification of article 83, which I suggest you write in this form. “The official observers shall immediately be issued a copy of the protocol of the territorial electoral commission on the results of the vote within the territorial constituency, including the “specified” and the recalculation of the voter votes at the appropriate polling station per copy of each protocol, including by the presence and by the note “specified” for each official observer.” This will contribute, I think, to the right and honest conduct of the electoral campaign, not to the campaign they're preparing for right now, thinking that once again it doesn't matter who votes, but it's important how votes count. Please support the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u204	The committee took this amendment into account in part nine, this is page 152 of the table, and asks for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u205	Amendment No. 153 shall apply to the vote. [[12:32:29]] For-42 No correction supported. 174 amendment, people's representative of the Hare. MP's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u206	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. What are you talking about? The point is that there is some paperwork between the District Election Commission and the Central Electoral Commission. And the law's valid rules give us the names of those documents that should have gone from the District Election Commission to the CLTC. In particular, there are claims and complaints of violations by the District Election Commission. But practice shows that no one complains about that commission, the district election commission, about its violation. Therefore, this documentation is transmitted to the CBC. And here's the protocol, the protocol for the District Election Commission meeting, where it's all fixed, the whole process of getting protocols from the District Election Commissions, it's not passed on to the CBC. 2004 was the year that showed that there were no such documents. Therefore, the evidence base could not be created. So my amendment is to rationalize the flow of these documents to the CLCMs that are needed, particularly the protocol, which should be passed on to the district.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u207	Unfortunately, the committee suggests that such an amendment be rejected. Although I want to say from experience that in some countries the protocol of the district commission as well as the district commission is really a protocol from the first letter to the last, as the entire meeting goes on.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u208	Amendment No. 174 shall apply to the vote. [[12:34:19]] For-33 No correction supported. 175 amendment of the People's Chamber of Pisarenko. Sergei Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u209	The committee's proposing a rejection.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u210	175 amendments to the vote. [[12:34:48]] For-22. No correction supported. Article 83 is edited in the first reading as a whole. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:35:09]] For-27 This article is deleted from the law. The following amendments to article 83.1: 176 Amendment of the People’s Deputies of Klukkowski, Podgorno, Sinchenka
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u211	Dear colleagues! It's just a technical thing to do. The title of the article contains the word “a separate foreign constituency”. The amendment proposes to delete the word “segregated” because the foreign constituency is a foreign constituency. Let's count it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u212	176 amendments to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:35:56]] For-34 No correction supported. The next amendment is made by the 177 People’s Deputies of Pisarenko. Please, the MP's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u213	Dear colleagues, it's about another amendment that I've established that in fact in the previous edition of article 84, which changes in the first reading of the law, it's already settled the positions that we have today. And that's where we're working normally. So we probably don't have to make excessive changes to this law, either, in order not to overburden the electoral campaign or to ask questions that we can't answer, or the CLTC, or the district election commission. So my suggestion in my amendment is that section 26 of the draft should be deleted. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u214	The committee suggests rejecting the amendment and leaving the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u215	Amendment No. 177 of Pisarenko’s MPs are voting. [[12:37:15]] For-21 No correction supported. Puts to the vote the whole article 83-1 in the first reading. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:37:38]] For-30 The article is not supported, it is deleted from the text of the law. The following amendments to article 84. 178 Amendment of the People’s Deputies: Klukkowski, Podgorno, Sinchenko
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u216	Dear colleagues, the committee suggests that we consider this amendment. It also refers to some other amendments to the changes and terms of certain actions after the first so-called round of voting. The point is that these proposals came from both CBC representatives and representatives, I emphasize, the Party of the Regions. The fact is that in the term set out in the law – 3 weeks, all of these procedures, which are provided for by the law in force, is not entirely possible, so it was proposed to replace the word “ten” here with the word “eighth” day in order to have results, then the formation of the district commissions we have again, then we have the formation of the constituencies again, and in order for all the terms to be met, we need to have a little bit of them removed. So please support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u217	Amendment No. 178 shall apply to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:39:03]] For-41 No correction supported. 179. Amendment of the people's representative of the Hare. MP's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u218	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. Dear National Deputies! Stop admiring people, have a conscience! If you were imitating yesterday, pretending to improve the current law on the election of the President of Ukraine, you are no longer even working on it. It is puzzling to think that the conspiracy of the two greatest factions that led to the adoption of a very imperfect law remains in force. Let's finally vote. My amendment is to make the protocol legitimate again in order to sign the protocol in a mandatory manner, at least half of the composition of the commission. So that it doesn't happen that a few people will sign the protocol, each one will. A representative of each candidate writes his own report and will wave in front of the people's eyes and will wave before the judicial authorities and say that these are the same results of the will. What will this lead to? This will lead to renewed tension in society, leading to the formation of power in an illegal way. So let's wake up!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u219	The committee suggests rejecting this amendment, although my personal opinion is: I think we should consider it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u220	179 amendments to the vote. [[12:40:36]] For-41 No correction supported. 180 Amendments to the People’s Deputies of Klukkowski, Podgorny, Sinchenka
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u221	Dear colleagues, this amendment refers not only to the Commission’s determination of the results but also to the date of the re-voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u222	180 amendments shall be made to the vote. [[12:41:18]] For-40 Not supported. 181 amendment of the People's Deputy Karmazin. The MP's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u223	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to come to your senses. I join the calls of the Hare. Part six of article 84: “The Central Election Commission shall, following the signing of the minutes of the vote, publish reports on the results of the vote on the day of the election of the President of Ukraine and on the conclusions of the vote, as provided for in part three, fourth or fifth of this article, on its official website as soon as possible, and in the newspapers “The Voice of Ukraine” and “The Government courier” no later than the third day following the signing of the above protocol.” Ladies and gentlemen, please support this amendment. Because it's about signing a protocol on the results of the vote, and the order of publication. And I am grateful to the committee that he was partly willing to consider this amendment. But you can see that the entire committee's opinion here today is being disregarded, in fact, in the matter. So once again, I urge everyone to support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u224	The committee actually counted in part. And yesterday it was said that according to the Central Election Commission Act, it has all its decisions, which are drawn up by protocols, by regulations, and it also puts them on its website. That's why. Right away. It happens, it does. So we think that the seventh part on page 163, the right column just counts for this amendment, but in part. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u225	Liszko Oleg Valeriyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u226	Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. I'm talking to my colleague from the Chechtov Region Party of Vasilovich. Dear colleague, please note the Hare’s appeal to this without exaggerating the Left of Ukrainian politics. [[Applause]] Vote, vote for the law, don't let us have moments that will allow us to falsify the presidential election. Because you also have a candidate from your political power. And if you're really interested in an honest win, and our Ukraine is in a conspiracy, you have to vote for the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u227	Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u228	I have deep respect for Ivan the Rabbit, like a real tiger, an elephant and a lion, and a bear of Ukrainian politics, and I deeply respect him, yes. But the thing is, the coalitions don't vote in the hall themselves, but the coalition doesn't vote, yes. And as much as we don't put up two shoulders, we're trying to vote, but because the coalition is missing and the votes are missing, yes. And we treat Ivan Alexandrovich with deep respect, yes. It's a real tiger of Ukrainian politics, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u229	The people's representative of the Hare, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u230	John the Rabbit. Ukrainian People’s Party The previous speaker, well, actually, talked about the Supreme Council being some kind of zoo. I absolutely agree with you that we have this relationship between MPs that don't work properly. You don't care about the fate of the electorate, you don't care about the fate of the people. You're not worried about the future of Ukraine, you're only worried about one thing: you're more likely to take power, you're going to touch it, you're going to use it to stuff your pockets. Unlike you, I've always worked in the Supreme Council to make Ukraine a strong state, so that people in Ukraine can live safely, so that they can have enough, that's why we created the Ukrainian state. Remember, yesterday was December 1. It's the night that the Ukrainians came out of captivity and entered the path of democracy, of their own state, on the path of freedom. And guard this value, guard this victory, not lose it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u231	Amendment 181 shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:45:57]] For 105 No correction supported. 182. Amendment of the People’s Deputies of Klukkowski, Podgorny, Sinchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u232	The committee took this amendment into account. But I would like to hear the opinion of the faction that suggested this -- after every amendment, go on why they would vote or not vote for this amendment. Is there no thought or thought at all, but just a stupid, cumbersome law?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u233	Amendment No. 182 shall apply to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:46:40]] For-53 No correction supported. Article 84, as adopted in the first reading and in general, is put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:47:02]] For-60 This article is not supported. The following amendment 183 to article 85 of the People’s Deputy of the Underworld.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u234	The committee counted it in part six and seven, asking for support. But would you also like to know the opinion of that faction that doesn't vote, what is the reason in this amendment, conditionally, anti-national? Because the law needs an electorate, you're beating our people.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u235	183. The amendment of the People’s Deputy of the Horn is subject to a vote. [[12:47:46]] For-68 No correction supported. 184 Amendment of the People’s Deputies of Klukkowski, Podgorno, Sinchenka
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u236	I've already commented on the same amendment. The point is that we're reducing some of the terms in the preparation of the second round of voting. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u237	184 amendments are made to the vote. [[12:48:21]] For-54 Not supported. 185 Amendment of the People’s Deputies of Klukkowski, Podgorny, Sinchenka
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u238	The committee suggests that we take it into account. The amendment refers to the fact that the invitation to the electorate is not sent when the re-voting is carried out, considering that there will be a very tight term. A joint commission will be formed five days before the election, more faithfully until the day of the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u239	Amendment No. 185 shall be put to the vote. [[12:49:01]] For-48 No correction supported. Puts to the vote as a whole article 85, as adopted in the first reading. [[12:49:22]] For-51 This article is not supported, it is deleted from the text of the law. The following amendments to article 86. 186 amendments to the People's Chamber of Pisarenko. Please, the MP's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u240	Dear colleagues! This amendment, like other amendments, relates to what, in fact, we have long settled with you in this session hall by over 300 votes we have defeated the President's veto and voted on the law that we are currently working for. I want to remind you that more than 100 amendments were made with you then, and only four of them were questions before the Constitutional Court. Hence, today there is legislation that regulates all of this. We've already gone through the main points that we wanted to change, they haven't gone through this session hall, and we're going to continue this circus, and we're just killing these people the second day of Parliament. work, if you can call it, over such a bill. I propose to vote on such an amendment, but in general it is likely that we should stop this mess and finally vote on the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u241	The committee proposes to reject this amendment. It's about the next one. We all remember 2004, when one of the leaders of the CEC announced the results of the elections. After that, they even congratulated the candidate. He announced it, he just announced it. And we need to make it public. And then a healthy thought won, overcame the legal field. And the decision of the court established everything as it had to be done. So we suggest that the results of the elections take effect, not when they are announced, but when they are published. Please reject this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u242	Amendment 186 of the People’s Deputy Pisarenko is subject to a vote. [[12:51:40]] For-31 No correction supported. Dear colleagues, the People's MP Pisarenko has suggested that we change the procedure for considering this bill and the other amendments that are now in place. If the MPs do not insist, they have not been considered separately. If no MP denies this offer, we can. They deny it. We continue as we have done. 187 Amendment of the People's Deputy of the Underworld.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u243	The committee took this amendment into account. The point is that when the results are made public, the name, after the father of the elected President of Ukraine, his year of birth, his profession, his job, his place of residence, his partying, and the subject of the promotion must be mentioned. Please support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u244	187 amendments to the vote. [[12:52:53]] For-55 No correction supported. 188. Amendment of the People's Deputy of Carmazin. MP's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u245	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I remind you that this project, which is now falling well, is a project by President Viktor Yushchenk of Ukraine. That's the first one. The other one. This project is actually made in style, in the spirit of the Constitutional Court's decision to fill the gaps that are there. And the third. Since there was a clear drawing and a coalition between the President and the Party of Regions was drawn, I call on them not to hide the President, not to hide his legislative initiatives. And I propose an article. Part of the first article 86 should read as follows: “The Central Election Commission, following its decision to establish the results of the elections, officially publishes the results of the election of the President of Ukraine with the designation of the surname, name, after the father of the elected President of Ukraine, his birth, profession, position, place of work, place of residence, partyhood, subject of posting on his official website.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u246	The committee took this amendment into account and asked for its support.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u247	188 amendments to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:54:32]] For-60 No correction supported. 189 Amendment of the People’s Deputies of Klukkowski, Podgorny, Sinchenka
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u248	The committee suggests that this amendment be taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u249	Amendment 189 shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:54:59]] For-55 No correction supported. The entire text of the amendments to article 86, adopted in the first reading, is put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:55:22]] For-58 This article is not supported and is deleted from the text of the law. The following amendments to article 89: 190 Amendments to the People’s Deputies of Klukkowski, Podgorny, Sinchenka
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u250	This amendment is a change of reference, and I ask you to consider it as a committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u251	Amendment No. 190 shall apply to the vote. [[12:55:55]] For-47 No correction supported. Puts to the vote as a whole as part of the first reading of article 89. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:56:16]] Z-62 The article is deleted from the text of the law. 191 Amendment to Article 90 of the People’s Deputies of Klukkowski, Podgorny, Sinchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u252	There's also a change of references, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u253	Amendment 191 shall apply to the vote. [[12:56:47]] For-57 No correction supported. In general, the vote on article 90 in the first reading is put to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:57:07]] For-69 This article is not supported. The following changes are made to article 91. 192. Amendment of the People's Deputy of Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u254	The committee suggests that this amendment be taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u255	192 amendments to the vote. [[12:57:39]] Z-62 No correction supported. Article 91 applies to voting as a whole in the first reading. [[12:58:01]] For-73 Article is not supported. Next amendment to articles 92, 193 of the amendment of the People’s Deputy of Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u256	Dear colleagues, this amendment and the following amendments apply mainly to the prosecution procedure, and they are all made in accordance with or taking into account the experience of 2006-2007. Therefore, the committee suggests that we consider this amendment and the following.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u257	193 amendments to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:58:47]] For-75 No correction supported. Puts to the vote the whole article 92 in the first reading. [[12:59:07]] For-58 Article is not supported. It's getting out of the law. Next amendment to 93, 194 amendments to the people’s deputies of Klukkowski, Podgorny, Sinchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u258	I have already commented on the previous and this amendment. Let's count it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u259	Amendment 194 shall be put to the vote. [[12:59:42]] For-67 No correction supported. The entire text of article 93, adopted in the first reading, is put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:00:03]] For-60 Article is not supported. Next amendment to 94 articles, 195 amendment of the national deputies of Klukkowski, Podgorny, Sinchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u260	The committee also suggests that we consider it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u261	195 amendments to the vote. [[13:00:33]] For-49 No correction supported. 196 Amendment of the People’s Deputies of Klukkowski, Podgorno, Sinchenko
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u262	We also suggest that we consider this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u263	196 amendments shall be put to the vote. [[13:01:00]] For-49 No correction supported. 197. The amendment deals with, excuse me, 197 amendments to the People's Deputy of Klukkowski. Please, Sergey Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u264	Let's take this into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u265	Puts the vote to the vote. Amendment 197 of the People's Deputy of Klukkowski. [[13:01:38]] For-54 No correction supported. 198 Amendment of the People’s Deputy of Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u266	The committee suggests that we take it into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u267	Amendment 198 shall be put to the vote. [[13:02:02]] For-50 No correction supported. 199 amendment of the people's representative of the Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u268	Considering that the previous amendments have not been taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u269	The MP's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u270	John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u271	Please support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u272	MP's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u273	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. The wording of part 4 of article 94 of the law in force provides for very strange rules of accusation of violations that occurred during the vote. First. In fact, a new and rather absurd legal mechanism has been introduced to prosecute violations from the electoral commission to the commission itself and to the offender. Interestingly, what decision can she make as a result of considering a complaint against herself? Is this an accusation for an accusation? The other one. The rule on the alleged terms of the complaint effectively prohibits any allegations of violations that occurred after the end of the vote, in the calculation of the votes, in the transport of election documents from DVC to DVC, in the context of the establishment of the voting summary. Third. The rules on the terms of the complaint provide for the introduction of confusion into the court's proceedings, in particular in the part of the filing of a complaint instead of an administrative appeal, provided for in the Code of Administrative Justice and in the series of charges other than those established by the Code. Four. The time limits set for the 24th hour of the next day.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u274	Complete your reasoning.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u275	It is in a sense artificial and not linked to specific situations in the electoral process. On the one hand, these terms may be a restriction on the right to appeal, and on the other hand they may be used as a means of delaying the work of the commission. My correction clearly and logically solves all the problems noted. All types of complaints are available on the day of the vote and during the following electoral procedures and the logical institutional mechanism for bringing complaints to the attention of the complainants. It is also suggested that the limitation of the term of the complaint should be established on the basis of the natural circumstances of the commission’s work, in fact. the completion of their work and the drafting of the relevant protocol. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u276	The 199 amendment of the people’s representative of the Hare shall be put to the vote. [[13:04:27]] For-60 No correction supported. 200 Amendments to the People’s Deputies of Klukkowski, Podgorny, Sinchenka
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u277	The committee proposes to consider this amendment and the following three amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u278	Amendment 200 shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:04:58]] For-49 No correction supported. Article 94 is put to the vote as a whole in the first reading. [[13:05:22]] For-60 Article is not supported. 201 Amendment, People's Deputies of Klukkowski, Podgorno, Sinchenka. Amendment number 201 shall apply to the vote. [[13:06:03]] For-49 No correction supported. 202 Amendment, People's Deputies of Klukkowski, Podgorno, Sinchenka. Amendment 202 shall apply to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:06:33]] For-45 No correction supported. In general, changes to article 95 of the first - reading law are made. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:06:56]] For-52 This article is not supported. Next amendment to 96 article 203, members of the People's Deputies of Klukkowski, Podgorny, Sinchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u279	The committee also suggests that the amendments be taken into account in the 96th article.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u280	203 amendments shall be put to the vote. [[13:07:25]] For-48 No correction supported. 204 Amendment of the People’s Deputies of Klukkowski, Podgorno, Sinchenka Amendment 204 shall apply to the vote. [[13:07:57]] For-47 No correction supported. 205 Amendment of the People's Deputy of Klukkowski. Amendment 205 shall be put to the vote. [[13:08:25]] For-44 No correction supported. 206. Amendment of the people's representative of the Hare. MP's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u281	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. The wording of article 94, paragraph 4, of the current law provides for very strange rules for the handling of complaints concerning, first, the imposition of a two - day period for the consideration of complaints. There is no reason, especially from the 2002-2007 election experience, for the need to reduce this period from a traditional 5-day term. The other one. In the rule on the alleged duration of the complaint, it is effectively forbidden to deal with any complaints of violations that occurred after the vote was completed, when the vote was calculated, when the election documents were transported from the DVC to the VVC when the vote was calculated. Third. The set time limits of the charges are no later than 1 hour before the end of the vote is actually carte blanche for any violation after that period. I propose an amendment that provides for the procedure for handling complaints about all kinds of complaints on the day of the vote and during the next election procedure, and a logical tool for handling complaints. It is also proposed to set limits on the duration of the complaint, depending on the natural circumstances of the commission’s work, the actual termination of their work and the drafting of the relevant protocol.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u282	The committee supports this proposal and suggests that it be taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u283	Amendment No. 206 of the Hare People’s Deputies shall be subject to a vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:10:02]] For-43 No correction supported. Next amendment number 207 of the people's deputies of Klukkowski, Podgorno, Sinchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u284	The committee suggests that this amendment be taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u285	Amendment No. 207 shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:10:35]] For-43 No correction supported. Put to the vote as a whole, as approved in the first reading, article 96. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:10:57]] For-45 This article is not supported. Next amendment to 98 article 208 of the People’s Deputies: Klukkowski, Podgorno, Sinchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u286	The committee suggests that this amendment be taken into account. The point is that the subject of the complaint is the election commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u287	Amendment No. 208 shall be put to the vote. [[13:11:34]] For-45 No correction supported. 209 Amendment of the People's Deputy of Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u288	The committee suggests that this amendment be taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u289	Amendment No. 209 shall apply to the vote. [[13:12:03]] For-41 No correction supported. The entire text of article 98, as approved in the first reading, is put to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:12:25]] For-47 Article is not supported. The next amendment is 210 to article 100 of the People’s Deputy of the Underworld.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u290	The committee suggests that we take it into account. We're here to clarify what laws are, what is it about the Election Act and the State Register Act?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u291	Amendment 210 of the People’s Deputy of the Horn is subject to a vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:13:00]] For-46 No correction supported. Article 99, as approved in the first reading, did not receive any amendments. The text of article 99, as approved in the first reading, deals with voting as a whole. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:13:30.]] For-45 This article is not supported. Next amendment 211 of the People's Deputy of Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u292	The committee proposes that the amendment be taken into account, and it gives more objective evidence of the nature of the complaints about decisions and the inaction of individual subjects in the electoral process.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u293	Amendment 211 shall apply to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:14:06]] For-43 No correction supported. Article 100 puts to the vote as a whole as part of the first reading of the approval. [[13:14:31]] For-37 Such an article is not supported, “For ” – 37. The next article, to which changes were envisaged, was 103 C.E. Amendment 112 of the People's Deputy of Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u294	The committee rejected the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u295	Amendment 112 shall be put to the vote. [[13:15:05]] For-37 No correction supported. 213 Amendment of the People's Deputy of Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u296	The committee suggests that this amendment be taken into account. The point is that the complaint is filed with the Central Election Commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u297	213 amendments shall be put to the vote. [[13:15:35]] For-43 Correction not supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u298	214 amendment, people's representative of the Hare. The MP's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u299	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. The editing of part one and part two of article 103 of the current law provides for a very strange procedure for accusing a candidate of acting as President of Ukraine: to an electoral commission of virtually any level, including a divisional electoral commission, which is absurd. This inadequacy needs to be addressed by limiting the scope of complaints against candidates by the Central Electoral Commission, which has registered the candidate and has the sole authority to apply sanctions for violations of the law to him. So I'm asking you to support my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u300	The committee supports.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u301	Amendment No. 214 shall apply to the vote. [[13:16:40]] For-48 This amendment is not supported. Article 103, as adopted in the first reading, deals with voting as a whole. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:17:05]] For-48 This article is not supported. The following changes are proposed in article 104. Amendment No. 215, People's Deputy Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u302	The committee suggests that these amendments be taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u303	Amendment No. 215 shall apply to the vote. [[13:17:33]] For-40 This amendment is not supported. The wording of article 104, as adopted in the first reading, deals with voting as a whole. [[13:17:56]] For-52 Correction not supported. The article is not supported, I'm sorry. We have thus concluded our consideration of the amendments and articles that envisaged amendments to the Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine. The next amendment concerns proposals for amendments to the Code of Administrative Justice of Ukraine, article 18 – “Substantial jurisdiction in administrative matters”. Amendment of 216 National Deputies of Klukkowski, Podgorno, Sinchenka
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u304	The committee suggests that this amendment be taken into account. The only thing I said in my opening statement is to read: the Kyiv Court of Appeal. And put these words away: “the territorial jurisdiction of which extends to the city of Kiev”. Because it's getting butter.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u305	216 amendments shall be put to the vote. [[13:19:01]] For-54 Correction not supported. It is up to the vote as a whole to the changes to article 18, as approved in the first reading. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:19:24]] For-48 Such changes are not supported. The following amendment refers to article 20 of KAZU. 217. Amendment of the People's Deputy of the Underworld.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u306	I'm taking this amendment down.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u307	A national MP does not insist on this amendment. She's voting, Amendment 217. [[13:19:56]] For-30 Correction not supported. Amendment of 218 National Deputies of Klukkowski, Podgorno, Sinchenka
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u308	The committee took this amendment into account. Please support me, taking into account the observation I made at the outset, to leave only the Kyiv Court of Appeal alone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u309	Amendment No. 218 shall apply to the vote. [[13:20:32]] For-49 No correction supported. The amendments to article 20 of the Code of Administrative Judiciality, as adopted in the first reading, are subject to the vote. [[13:20:58]] For-41 No changes are supported for this article. 219 Amendment of the People’s Deputies of Klukkowski, Podgorno, Sinchenka
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u310	The committee counted it in part, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u311	Amendment 219 shall apply to the vote. [[13:21:26]] For-40 No correction supported. 220 Amendments to the People’s Deputies of Klukkowski, Podgorny, Sinchenka
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u312	The committee took this amendment into account, but here is a technical description: “no less” – these two words have to be deleted, this has been missed in the process.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u313	220 amendments shall be put to the vote. [[13:22:05]] For-41 No correction supported. The amendments to article 24 of the Code of Administrative Judiciality, as adopted in the first reading, apply to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:22:28]] For-40 No such changes are supported. 221 Amendment to 109 of the Code of Administrative Judiciality of the People’s Deputies of Klukkowski, Podgorny, Sinchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u314	The committee suggests that this amendment be taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u315	221 amendments shall be put to the vote. [[13:22:56]] For-40 No correction supported. In general, the vote is based on article 109, as approved in the first reading. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:23:18]] For-36 This article is not supported. The next 222 amendments to article 117 of the People’s Deputies of Klukkowski, Podgorno, Sinchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u316	The committee also suggests that the amendment be taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u317	Amendment 222 shall be put to the vote. [[13:23:47]] For-43 No correction supported. Put to the vote as a whole, article 117, as approved in the first reading. [[13:24:09]] For-43 This article is not supported. Next amendment to 172 articles. 223 Amendment of the People’s Deputies of Klukkowski, Podgorny, Sinchenka
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u318	The committee also requests that this amendment be taken into account in part, with the clarifications that I have already mentioned in the court’s name.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u319	223 amendments shall be put to the vote. [[13:24:44]] For-40 No correction supported. 224 amendment of the People's Chamber of Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u320	The committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u321	Don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u322	The committee believes that this amendment is already included in another law that we adopted literally last plenary week. That is why we do not insist on voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u323	224 amendments shall be put to the vote. [[13:25:19]] For-28 Not supported. 225 amendment of the People's Deputy of Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u324	The committee suggests that we take it into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u325	Amendment No. 225 shall be put to the vote. [[13:25:43]] For-37 No correction supported. 226 Amendment of the People's Deputy of Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u326	The committee's proposing a rejection.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u327	Amendment No. 226 shall apply to the vote. [[13:26:10]] For-38 No correction supported. 227 Amendment of the people's representative of the Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u328	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. The law in force sets a two - day deadline for the court to decide administrative matters. This rule is a full proponent of the court procedure, a discrediting of the court's defence during elections as such. The case law in the 2006-2007 elections does not give any grounds for violating the issue of the shortening of the general term of the trial, the election disputes in the first instance from five days to two days. There are no examples when a five - day trial, however it may be, interfered with the electoral process. On the other hand, all the resonance issues during the 2004-2007 electoral process lasted 5 days. I'll remind you that if there weren't for five days, the BIT wasn't represented in this room, because then the CEVC refused to register them, and the court considered this question, and it takes more than two days to review it. So I propose to renew the five - day term, that is, the real standards, and the judiciary will work properly, and rights will be protected.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u329	The committee suggested that it should be rejected, since the amendment was previously appropriate, but it can now be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u330	Amendment No. 227 shall be put to the vote. [[13:27:48]] For-61 Correction not supported. It is up to the vote as a whole to amend article 172 of the Code of Administrative Judiciality as adopted in the first reading. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:28:14]] For-51 Changes in this article are not supported. The following amendment refers to the amendments to 173 articles. 228 amendments to the People's Chamber of Pisarenko. Please, the MP's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u331	Dear colleagues! In fact, this is the final stage in which we are approaching the conclusion of this bill. And we've come to some points that we've already taken into account in a separate bill. And it's a good thing we accepted him. Moreover, many things have been improved by the law that is now in force. So this amendment 228 referred to the moment when we talked about the need to make changes to the voter list and to make appropriate decisions by the courts on the day of the vote. At this point in time, given that we have already turned down actual procedures that have been established by law, and it can be noted that the election, which will change on the day of the vote, is going to lose its relevance in one way or another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u332	228 amendments shall be put to the vote. [[13:29:44]] For-40 No correction supported. 229 Amendment of the People’s Deputies of Klukkowski, Podgorno, Sinchenka
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u333	The committee suggests that we take it into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u334	Amendment 229 shall be put to the vote. [[13:30:12]] For-32 No correction supported. The amendments to article 175 of the Code of Administrative Justice, as adopted in the first reading, apply to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:30:34]] For-40 Changes to this article are not supported. 230 Amendment of the People's Deputy of Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u335	So 230th, 231st and 232nd committee is offering to count.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u336	Amendment 230 shall be put to the vote. [[13:31:05]] For-34 No correction supported. 231 amendments shall be put to the vote. [[13:31:26]] For-33 Not supported. 232 amendments shall be put to the vote. [[13:31:44]] For-24 This amendment is not supported. The changes to article 176, as approved in the first reading, are based on the general vote. [[13:32:05]] For-37 Not supported. 233 Amendment of the People’s Deputies of Klukkowski, Podgorny, Sinchenka
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u337	The committee suggests partial consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u338	Amendment 233 shall be put to the vote. [[13:32:34]] For-32 No correction supported. The following amendment is made by the 234 People’s Deputy of Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u339	The committee also suggests that we take the matter into account in an editorial way.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u340	Amendment No. 234 shall apply to the vote. [[13:33:02]] For-33 No correction supported. 235 amendment of the People's Deputy of Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u341	The committee suggests that we take it into account. Links are changing here.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u342	235 amendments shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:33:28]] For-47 Correction not supported. 236 Amendment of the People's Deputy of Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u343	The committee's proposing a rejection.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u344	Amendment 236 shall be put to the vote. [[13:33:56]] For-35 No correction supported. 237 Amendment of the People's Deputy of Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u345	Considering that nothing has changed before, it makes no sense to vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u346	237 amendments shall be put to the vote. [[13:34:26]] For-28 No correction supported. It is up to the vote as a whole to the changes proposed in article 177 in the first reading. [[13:34:48]] For-34 Such changes are not supported. 238 Amendment of the People's Deputy of Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u347	Partially counted. The committee's offering to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u348	The voting shall be amended as number 238. [[13:35:15]] For-40 No correction supported. 239. Amendments to 157 article of the Ukrainian Criminal Code
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u349	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. The Ukrainian Code of Criminal Procedure establishes the criminal responsibility of members of the electoral commission in the form of a fine of between 5,000 and 8,000,500 dollars or a restriction or withdrawal for a term of up to two years for three signs of dismissal of a member of the electoral commission in the work of the commission for no valid reason. So I went to the left, 8 thousand 500 fines, and I went to the right -- two years. This presumptuous and cynical amendment is a threat, it has no right to exist and apply. This standard is a demonstration of outright contempt for the average citizens who work triumphantly on election boards. It is a sign of the totalitarian thinking of those who voted for it. A similar standard was introduced last time in the totalitarian USSR in 1940 for late work. Today, there is no such feudal cruelty in legislation regarding any other work or social activity. And at a time when, in fact, the work on election committees is due to pre-loading.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u350	Please finish, Ivan Alexandrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u351	Excuse me. Election procedures continue to become more and more torture for people who are still applying to work in them. Instead of thanking and facilitating the work of electoral commissions, individual politicians threaten these conscious citizens with prison and fines. The particular danger of this novelty is that such a norm contains a formula that is totally unacceptable to criminal law. And the ambiguities of work avoidance, let's stress, not from work, but from work. This ambiguity of the disposition can be used to pressure conscientious and conscientious members of the commission. So I suggest you throw it away, it's a disgrace to the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u352	Dear colleagues and honourable voters, when we considered this amendment, it was two weeks ago, and we counted it. And then there were messages, which, literally last week, are already being confirmed this week. We thus found that the district commissions were formed on Friday evening by the CBC’s ruling. The session under the current law, first, should have taken place on Monday. On Saturday and Sunday, some were not found by members of the district commissions. Here's the question. Haven't they found or searched? That is why some have not been to these meetings. So this is the reason to apply this norm and fine these people. For what? Questions. The committee therefore supports this amendment and asks everyone to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u353	Amendment No. 239 of the people’s representative of the Hare to 157 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine is subject to a vote. [[13:38:28]] For-51 No correction supported. 240th Amendment of the People's Deputy of Klukkowski to Article 158-1 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u354	The committee proposes to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u355	Amendment 240 of the Klukkowski People's Deputy is subject to the vote. [[13:39:04]] For-49 No correction supported. 241 Amendment of the People's Deputy of Pisarenko to 112 articles of the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine. Please, the MP's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u356	Dear colleagues, our work has been limited to the adoption of three, in fact, amendments and three articles we have left. In fact, if we vote them in combat, our law will look out of three articles, in fact. So I don't think there's any point in supporting any kind of amendment anymore, and after that, I think we need to discuss procedural points how we can continue to vote in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u357	Dear colleagues, the committee considered this amendment, especially since it came not only from author Pisarenko but also from author Lukas. But then, I'll remind you, Lukas, in her amendment, called off after consideration, although these amendments are very appropriate.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u358	241 The amendment of the People’s Deputy Pisarenko is a vote. [[13:40:18]] For-68 No correction supported. 242 Amendment, People’s Deputies of Klukkowski, Podgorno, Sinchenka
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u359	The committee suggests that this amendment be taken into account. There's a list of how to make changes to legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u360	242 amendments shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:40:49]] For-59 Correction not supported. 243. The amendment of the People’s Deputies of Klukkowski, Podgorny, Sinchenka, refers to “the final clauses ” of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u361	Considering that we have broken the law in such a friendly manner, we should vote in favour of this amendment. Maybe the Party of Regions will vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u362	243 amendments shall be put to the vote. [[13:41:26]] For-50 Correction not supported. Thus, honourable colleagues, we have considered all the amendments to all the articles of the law, adopted decisions on each amendment, and on each article. No amendment by the Ukrainian people’s deputies is supported. And all of them, without exception, are not supported by the article of the Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts regarding the election of the President of Ukraine as a whole in an editorial that was adopted in the first reading. So Bill 5263-2 is rejected. On the basis of the vote, the People's Parliament of the Rabbit, please. Thank you, Sergey Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u363	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. The truth in the Supreme Council has proved to be a very narrow circle of Democrats, very far away from the people have been national MPs. Why would you break this comedy by considering this bill? What was the purpose of working on these amendments? Because everyone realizes that the law is valid, it's undemocratic, it doesn't guarantee us a transparent election. It will certainly result in great abuse during these elections. And this will give rise to tension in society. There may even be some collisions, perhaps even new revolutions. If someone thinks that one group is playing the other, if one political force, mega-force, thinks that it has a greater Ryder potential than the other, you're very wrong. You will fight among yourselves, and you will suffer the interests of the people, you will suffer the interests of the electorate, you will suffer the interests of those small political parties that are ideological, which today have the opportunity to offer an alternative to the development of our society. I'm just surprised we broke this comedy yesterday and today. So, people's deputies, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u364	Ivan Aleksandrovitch, finish your opinion, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u365	What's to be done here? When it became clear that this scheme, the elimination of this bill was very simple. No, no, no, no, no, no. The standards we adopted in the first reading, and that law was passed, it was in favour, the Presidential Law, not to vote. And so we came up with what we didn't have to vote for. That is, we do not have legislative reasons to choose a course today. I won't. We're stuck. I mean, we so, very slowly, quietly put this bill out of the legislative process and we smile. The one who laughs is the one who laughs. Don't laugh.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u366	Dear colleagues! They raised their hands to the deputies of all factions. So, if you don't mind, there's a one-person vote on the faction. Will We Record? So I see from one faction a few hands, so please sign up for a vote. National MP Pisarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u367	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd stop speculating on legislation here. In fact, those who want to hold fair, transparent, democratic elections today are doing the job. And you know that a lot of our colleagues are doing this today, and the CBC is working. The current legislation is fully in line with the functioning of the Constitution, which is the conclusion of the Constitutional Court. Those moments, which were somewhat reversed by the Constitutional Court, did not create any gaps for the electoral campaign today. Our task here today, in the session room, was to improve some of the points and perhaps to take into account the proposals made by the Venice Commission. Of course, on political grounds today, the Supreme Council did not want to make this improvement. But that doesn't mean that we have to raise our voices right now and talk about whether the election isn't going to happen or something else is going to happen. The elections will take place at any time, and I am confident that the results of the elections will be established in accordance with the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u368	Vaszczuk Katerina Timofievna
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u369	I give the word to Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u370	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would also warn against apocalyptic sentiments, because, first of all, they don't lead to anything constructive; second of all, they don't match reality. And the problem here is very simple, you just have to look at the depths of the question, because smart people always try to look at it. And the bottom line is that when the law was passed, when it was still in the leg of the bill, and it was voted by those who now accuse each other, and they voted together for it, it was already the experts and, let's say, the representatives of my faction, the Lithuanian Block, said that there are six or seven, some people think that there are five or six, but there are no changes in the situation, absolutely non-democratic things, which was then confirmed by the Constitutional Court. So I would invite, not the apocalypse, but in the drafting phase of the bill, to think about its quality, not political relevance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u371	The Chechtov People’s Deputy hands over the right to speak to the deputy of Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u372	Thank you, Mikhail Vasilevich. Dear colleagues, let us remember a little bit of history. You and I have passed the Presidential Election Act together. And then together we all talked about how this law was much better than it was before. This was acknowledged by all legal experts who worked with this law. The Constitutional Court then ruled on five amendments, recognizing their unconstitutionality. See articles. We have suggested that we proceed with a joint document, and these 5 observations of the Constitutional Court will be taken into account in this document. You went the other way. It's your right. Today you've shown that you can't accept this document, but that doesn't mean that there's been some kind of disaster. We have a whole document called the Presidential Elections Act. We can work under this law today, and if there is good will, let us return, work together and take into account the comments of the judges of the Constitutional Court and then work fully in the legislative field, in the constitutional field and there will be no problems here.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u373	Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich instead.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u374	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues! Dear voters! Well, I get the impression, listening to the struggle for this law for two days, that we should find some compensators to compensate the moral and physical forces of a fellow Hare because he was fighting the last for this law. But I'd like to remind you of something else. Recently, when we were working. When the Supreme Council was working on the first, let's say, amendment of the Presidential Elections Act, all of these proposals of the Hare colleague were then also considered and they did not receive support. He's right. He usually has the right to bring them in, but he already knew the fate of it. And unfortunately, some of our colleagues went the wrong way, because it seems that from that document that was supported, "The President's First Reading Proposals" was gone, and there were proposals that came out of the Constitutional Court and the Venice Commission's decision, and they wanted to write another new one.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u375	Complete, please, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u376	And everyone understands, fellow believers, that there is no calamity, no calamity, no sorrow, no sorrow from the fact that this law today will not receive support. Elections will take place, and there is a law for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u377	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u378	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I am addressing you, I am addressing those who will watch this broadcast. This is 193 sheets, 193 sheets of A-4 and two working days -- this is what we allow in crisis. And we throw it all in the trash. It's on the one side. One. On the other hand, all the disadvantages that are allowed, that lead to counterfeiting. And on the third side. This document is called the Constitution. And here the Supreme Council is supposed to adopt laws, regulations and other acts more than its constitutional composition, except in cases where it is provided by the Constitution. I ask, especially on the Regulatory Committee: Mr. Ephraim, please tell me without the Rules how the results of the first vote can be reversed? But only by the second vote, which is more than the first. Yes or no? Or at least one that matches article 91, and it's not the same as it is right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u379	Please finish, Yuri Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u380	Thank you. Thus, you and I, honourable national deputies, are violating the requirements of article 91, based on the requirements of the non-existent Rules, which says let's support it. And you think you're smarter? No, it's not. You're gonna get hit by this boomerang. He's gonna hit whoever's cooking these things. And I think if you're afraid of both debates and everything else, the responsibility for the debate, and now you're afraid of other things, well, you're only doing worse for your candidate. You didn't vote for being untouchable. Why? Then let's not hold meetings of the Supreme Council, there's no point in holding them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u381	Voting arguments completed. Replica, please, John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u382	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. One of the people's deputies said that my amendments, well, were actually unquality, because they were, you see, not accepted by the Supreme Council, that I was preparing them, understanding that they would not be accepted. I answer to this MP: let him mention the first reading under the law in force, and the Constitutional Court, in many of my amendments, has decided that they are not constitutional. Read the recommendations of the Venice Commission and the OSCE, where the same amendments that I've been preparing are recognized as non-democratic, those that pose a threat to the counterfeiting of elections. And the second. Ladies and gentlemen, please explain to me, if you voted on the bill in the first reading, no amendment was adopted, why didn't you vote in the second reading today? Because you deliberately did everything you could to leave a valid law, because you know that this law allows you to fake an election when someone wants it. But one political power that counts for victory thinks it has a greater Raider potential and falsifies another political power. The other one.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u383	The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Real Estate Rights and Their Burdens is being published, with proposals from the President of Ukraine. Registration number 0866. Re-examination after further processing. Weaver Alexander Mikolaiovich. No Tkachenko Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u384	We don't have to go on. We have 13 hours 53 minutes. I'm familiar with you, please. This law was passed by the Supreme Council, and the President vetoed it. After a review of the President's veto, he's sent to the committee for work. No suggestions were made by the committee. That's why I'm voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u385	From the procedure? Please log in with the procedure. The National MP Bondarenko is transferring the right to speak to the National Deputy of Osica.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u386	Dear Alexandre Volodymyrovich, the honourable colleagues, is such a request, and on the matter, we have asked that the committee has not been able to work out the relevant table a little bit. He's working on it not later than one week. And we ask you to transfer this bill to the next plenary week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u387	Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u388	Dear Alexander Vladimirović, distinguished colleagues! Well, there's a representative of the President, I don't think we need to stop the process. Let him make the appropriate argument, we will listen. The hall makes, as always, the right, wise decision, the hall is never wrong. We discussed two days under the previous law, but we made a wise decision. I think we'll make a wise, necessary decision under this law. Therefore, once the representative of the President has arrived, give him the floor to the rostrum, and we will determine the fate of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u389	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u390	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Your Honor Alexander Volodymyrovich! You understand very well that there are minutes left, and to prepare this law the same fate that has now been prepared for the fate of the President's Elections Act is probably pointless. So I think this law has to be transposed, the consideration of it, it doesn't have to be considered today, because it's a repetition of this. And let's think with you that we're living in a crisis period, and what we need to accept, and now we're going to bring together the faction leaders, and think about the bills that fill the state budget -- it's about making changes to excises, it's about raising excise duties. We're three times cheaper than Billorcia, fuel excise. And that pleases everyone. Why? Because there's traders sitting here, so it's satisfying. Let us make decisions that fill the budget, not just make decisions that are being spent on this budget today. We won't. I'm sorry, but I need your help.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u391	Lyszko Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u392	Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. I'm again addressing my colleague Chechchev Mikhail Vasilovich. He said a very interesting phrase about the fact that this room is never wrong. Sadly, he is wrong. And in this room, especially on the eve of the presidential election, there is populism and irresponsibility. Almost a hundred laws are in order this plenary week. We've been looking at two laws for two days. What about the bills that need urgent response that people today demand of us? This is social protection, this is the fight against pornography and the mass of other bills that need to be considered? And we've been pounding water in our feet for two days. And you, Mikhail Vasilovich, you're the reason we've been pounding water in our feet for the last two days. You propose to vote on each amendment without supporting the amendment, or knowingly delaying the time. Country.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u393	Please, Oleg Valeriyovich, finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u394	It seems to me that our country, our country, our famous people do not deserve such abuse and irresponsible treatment when every minute counts. What should we not consider today, or was it yesterday, about the allocation of a billion dollars for medicine? And you and me, we're just pounding water in the air. At this time, thousands of people need our help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u395	Weaving Roman Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u396	Roman Tkac, MP “For Ukraine!” Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! I'm afraid we've just had a wonderful time talking. And today those representatives of the political forces who are speaking are simply deceiving everyone. Please tell me, who deliberately overthrows the State Land Cadastre Act? A party of regions didn't vote. Why is it that today the head of the Communist faction committee, Alexander Tkachenko, does not speak here, does not report the law? A colleague from BUTU says that he has not considered the matter for some reason. And the whole point is, what's most important is information about the earth. Because if anyone forgot, I want to remind them that this law says what the State Land cadastre should be in Ukraine. They won't accept the State Land cadastre. Why won't they? Because tomorrow the board will have all the information about owners, land users. And the question isn't here for the President, today the question to the Supreme Council committee: why isn't the committee looking at this bill for two years? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u397	Dear colleagues, we have completed the procedure for dealing with this issue, the proposals that have come. First of all, I want to make a point. Dear Oleg Valeriyovich, please do not have to twist the facts, because the law that we are currently considering has been put on the schedule of meetings at the firm request of your faction, and the factions of others have not insisted on its consideration. Please hear from the faction, the Chechetov People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u398	It's literally three theses. This is the first one. We said that the law was not ready, it should not be introduced, it was an initiative that was a coalition. This second one. The practice of reviewing the article law came from BUT again. Finally, this third is the main one. Last chord, final. I think we didn't just do it for two days. Today, almost the result of the vote on the Electoral Law was the coronation of Ivan the Rabbit, who was 19 years in politics and today we crowned him as a lion in politics. Let's congratulate him.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-02-m0.u399	Dear colleagues, we don't have time for small talk anymore. We already have 14.01. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you of what has been declared to be the law for two years on the committee for work. When the Rules stipulated a maximum of 30 days. Since we are no longer able to examine it today, I ask the committee to consider it at the committee meeting today, and we will return to its consideration at the end of this week. The morning plenary session is closed.
